
 - Mr Speaker, in expressing my personal pleasure at being elected to this assembly, this august House, I wish to express my sincere thanks to the electors of Fisher. I assure you that I do not regard this honour either flippantly or lightly.  Mr Speaker,  I offer my congratulations to you on your election to a very high and distinguished office. I think that you can take great satisfaction from the additional honour of being appointed completely unopposed. I wish you well in that position. 
I acknowledge that the Australian people have voted for a change in the government of this nation, and as a member in opposition it will be my duty to analyse the measures introduced by this Government, to expose weaknesses in its policies and legislation and to inform the Australian electorate of alternative policies and another point of view. My personal relationship should not preclude me from drawing the attention of this House to the very distinguished record of service of my predecessor, extending over a period of 29 years. I refer to the Right Honourable  Sir Charles  Adermann. Although denied the opportunity to complete even a formal primary school education, by study, dedication and ability he made a contribution to the Parliament and to the Government of this nation which has been equalled by very few men in this nation's short history. He occupied a 
I  number of high offices - that of Deputy 

 Speaker, Acting  Speaker,  Minister for Primary Industry, a senior member of Cabinet, and  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party. The electorate would have me say that in those offices he showed his sincerity, ability and adherence to high Christian principles. As  a Minister he introduced more than 50 Bills into the Australian Parliament for the direct benefit of Australian primary producers. He was accepted and respected by political friend and foe alike, and was well worthy of the honours that were bestowed upon him. I pay my tribute to this man who is truly a great Australian. 
The electorate of Fisher, which I represent, is a large important rural electorate within the boundaries of which will be found almost every primary industry, substantial and important secondary industries in provincial cities and towns and the unequalled splendour of the glorious Sunshine Coast which is known to many tourists. It is a privilege and a challenge to be a member for an electorate like Fisher. But already the primary producers of my electorate, as a result of deliberate action by this Government, have been robbed of a significant part of their export income. I am not by any means satisfied with the statement in the Governor-General's Speech about adjustment assistance for certain industries. This could mean anything or nothing, and I suspect that it means nothing. As a result of the appreciation of the Australian do'.lar in December, primary industries will lose between $150m and $200m in export income, and that figure will be greatly increased by the lack of action following the American devaluation. 
A lot of promises were made about revaluation compensation. It seems certain now that the Government is callously and brutally indifferent to the primary producers ot Australia. I condemn this lack of activity in providing the compensation which was promised. During the election campaign copies of an impressive document headed 'Labor's  Rural  Policy' were circulating around my electorate. This document saturated my electorate. It was peddled enthusiastically by every Government candidate, including my friend  ite  honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen),  lt was fu'l of promises. We were told that $500m would be provided at 3 per cent over repayment periods of 40 years, or something like that. We were told all about proposed extensions of rural reconstruction and assistance which would be given to the primary producer. 
I see no mention of any of these things in the Governor-General's Speech. Primary producers in my electorate are no longer interested in platitudes or promises. They are interested in performance and, up to now, the performance has not been good. Because of serious attacks by Ministers of this Government upon the  President  of the United States, Australia has lost her favoured nation treatment with that country and, despite the statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the dairymen have lost a powdered milk contract worth $6m. Dairymen in my electorate and all over Australia just cannot afford that kind of loss. Beef and sugar producers, grain growers and sorghum exporters in my electorate are all vitally concerned and dismayed about the possible effects upon their American export markets. 
Because it is a matter of no small consequence, I refer now to something which relates to my electorate. The potato growers in the Lockyer Valley of Fisher have made the strongest representations to me, which I have brought to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  regarding applications that have been made by processors for permits to import substantial quantities of potatoes from New Zealand. One processor alone wants to import 65 tons of potatoes a week for 3 or 4 months and there are a whole host of others. I call on the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister representing him in this place to have regard for this important industry. I cannot find any shortage of potatoes in Australia, or any likely shortage, but I do see a determined effort to undermine the price of potatoes produced in my electorate. If these permits are granted without a proper investigation, a grave and disastrous injustice will be done. 
The Government's decisions to appreciate the Australian dollar and to do nothing about the devaluation of the American dollar will have a disastrous effect on another great industry in my electorate, the Australian tourist industry. Tourist spending by overseas visitors is income from an export industry and, because the Australian dollar is now dearer on world markets, many people will decide not to come to this country purely on the basis of value for money spent. This blow comes at a bad time, lt comes just when Australia was on the threshold of a tourist bonanza. This has been further aggravated by the Government's decision to subsidise Australian tourist air fares out of the country, despite its election policy calling for the encouragement of cheap air holidays within Australia. This money could have been far more wisely used in assisting the Australian tourist industry. I call on the Government to provide assistance in the form of grants, special loans and tax concessions such as are being provided by, I believe, about 80 other governments to the tourist industries of their countries which are direct competitors with our industry. This matter is of great importance to my electorate and it is vitally necessary that this sort of assistance be given to provide things such as international- class accommodation and facilities. 1 will be constantly reminding this Government of the importance of this rapidly expanding but often forgotten industry and of the necessity for the provision of such assistance. 
I bring another matter to the floor of the House because I have not been able to obtain satisfaction through other representations. I bring to the notice of the House a matter that I raised with the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I refer to the critical situation which exists with regard to telephone connections in my electorate. Despite the excellent spending in Queensland of the previous Government, the situation is now critical. In addition to making specific requests for urgent attention to vital rural connections, I want to make specific mention of the Maroochydore area, which is in the heart of the Sunshine Coast. Yesterday I received advice that 138 business people are awaiting telephone connections in that area alone. These people have built premises and have announced opening dates on the understanding that telephones would be installed. They are now being told that the lucky ones might get telephones in July but most will have to wait until September. This is a disastrous situation. Here we have real decentralisation and a remarkable and wonderful tourist industry. Here we have businessmen trying to become established and doing something in the. way of decentralisation; yet these men are stopped' in their tracks because of what I regard as a critical situation. The answer we have been given is that there is a lack of cables. I do not accept that answer because I have information from [ other sources that it is not correct. I hope  i  that the Postmaster-General will take note of my statements. I bring these matters to the floor of the House in the hope that they will be dealt with and that my constituents will receive satisfaction. 
I was appalled yesterday to hear in this House a vitriolic and uninformed attack by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  who I understand has, under the privilege of Parliament, done this sort of thing before. This man, who can look through his lounge room window and, without turning his head, survey his entire electorate, criticised the Australian Country Party in a vitriolic fashion. I would like him to go around the electorate of Kennedy with my friend the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I am sure that he would not manage to do that in 3 years. The honourable member for Bowman talked about one-vote one-value. That is a high sounding phrase, but it does not mean much, except that honourable members who peddle this phrase have a lack of knowledge of what a country member must do.I thinkit would do them good to take such a journey and have a look around. We would hear less of this cry if such honourable members had more work to do. 
The honourable member for Bowman, again speaking under privilege, made a vicious personal attack on the Queensland Premier, even to the extent of being ordered by  Mr Speaker  to withdraw unparliamentary remarks. I cannot understand how an honourable member could sink so low as to attack the Premier's Christian standards. That appalled me. Obviously, the honourable member for Bowman does not know the Queensland Premier as closely as I know him because, if he did, his words would have choked him. Of course, the attack was made because the Premier has been the most outspoken critic of the discriminatory and unconstitutional attacks by this Government upon the Queensland Government. I see my friend, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  in the chamber. He knows that this is so. I wish there were more Queenslanders in the Cabinet who had an understanding of the problems of Queensland because the arbitrary attempt by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to assume responsibility for all mineral export contracts is a deliberate attempt to destroy Queensland and to gain Queensland's markets for the high priced mines of the south that are in the Minister's electorate. If the honourable member for Bowman ever enjoys a fraction of the gratitude, esteem and affection that are enjoyed by the Queensland Premier among those who know him, I will be the first to congratulate him. 
It is well known that the economy of Queensland relies heavily on minerals and it would be abhorrent if there were any truth in the rumours that go slow tactics will be employed by this Government against Queensland because of the Premier's stand. I point out to all honourable members that the coalition Government in Queensland hasled Queensland from the position of being the Cinderella State of this country - from the stagnation and shame of almost 30 years of Labor government - to the position where it is now a wonderful, progressive State. It is the most decentralised State in Australia today. The protests about mineral royalties do not hold water. The. men who make those statements know that there are many more factors to be considered. The Queensland people know where their salvation lies. They showed it at the last State election and at the Federal election on 2nd December last. I can understand that the Government would be disappointed, but if that disappointment becomes vindictiveness it will be intolerable and unforgivable. 
The Governor-General referred in his Speech to decentralisation. The AlburyWodonga centre was mentioned but Queensland was forgotten again. I assure the Government that it has a long and impassable road ahead if it persists in pursuing unconstitutional attacks on the rights of the sovereign State of Queensland. I heard an honourable member opposite say yesterday that the Government is concerned with people. If he is concerned with people, let him be mindful of the Torres Strait islanders. Let him be mindful of their desires in the border dispute and let nothing arbitrary be done. Let nothing be done against the wishes of people to be free and to remain Queenslanders and Australians. 
I wish to raise another matter to which my attention has been directed during my electoral visits. I have tried to check it out. It greatly concerns and alarms me because it affects the security of our nation. If what I have been told is entirely true, it is disastrous. If it is true in part it is cause for alarm. I have been advised that in at least some of our Air Force bases, and perhaps military bases also, some of the service staff have been replaced by civilian employees. I have been told that these civilian employees have been advised to join a union. I have also been told - my authority is good and if a Minister can deny what I have been told I will be the happiest man in this House - that the officers commanding these bases have been instructed to allow union officials the full facilities of the bases. If that is so, it places our security absolutely in jeopardy. It is a matter of alarm to me. Because it was raised with me in my electorate by people whom I respect, I bring it to the attention of this House. 

 Mr Speaker, I hope that you will find in me the same forthright advocate and honest representative that you found in my predecessor. I promise you that I will give opposition where opposition is due. I think the House for the opportunity of making my maiden speech and 
I look forward to long and happy service in this House. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question relating to applications for permits for the import of potatoes from New Zealand or elsewhere for that matter. 1 know that one application has been withdrawn following my recent remarks on this matter in the House. I ask: Have any further applications been received by the Minister for Primary Industry and if so, how many applications has he received? Further, is the Minister aware that Lockyer Valley potatoes will be available in early May and that a good yield is anticipated? Finally, will he assure the House that permits will not be issued while Australian growers are able to supply the Australian requirements at a fair price? 
 I rise to oppose clause 3 and the Bill in general. Although the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has said that this Bil] is a means of bringing about electoral justice I say that it will not do that. It denies electoral justice. Clause 3 relates to matters to be considered in the distribution of a State. The Minter has led us along the garden path in this matter. He says that matters which have been previously considered are not now relevant. I remind him that this is not consistent with' what he claims the aims of the Labor Party are or have been. I refer him to Queensland. This is the very State which he criticised in regard to a gerrymander. I wish to show him what the Labor attitude in that State was in  the past to provisions such as those in this clause of the Bill. 
I refer him to the election of 1956 which was fought on the basis of a Labor distribution. I have the official figures for the Queensland State general election held in 1956 showing the enrolment for each electorate in Queensland at that time. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate this table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="083131197304046_36_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083131197304046_36_2.jpg"></graphic>

If I may take a few figures from that table, it will be found that at that time there were in Queensland 9 seats with an enrolment of fewer than 6,000 voters. The seats varied from 4,367 in Charters Towers to about 5,500 in the western shearer seats. These seats were called 'shearer seats' because almost invariably they were won by Labor. At that election the Liberal Party held a number of seats in the city of Brisbane. The enrolment figures for those seats were astounding. I will refer to just one or two of them. For the seat of Mount Gravatt the enrolment was 26,307, for Kedron it was 19,675, and for Chermside it was 17,708. I could go on to mention other seats. But all I want to do is to throw back to the Minister the very words he used in the debate on the second reading: 'What a mockery of democracy; what a gerrymander'. The Queensland Labor Party was asked to justify this large variation in the figures. It was not 10 per cent; it was not 20 per cent. The percentage ran into hundreds. The answer given by the Queensland Labor Party at that time was: You have to consider these western seats. You have to consider the geography of the area, the vastness of the area, the sparsity of population and the difficulties that members  have in representing these areas.' That was the reason the Labor Party in Queensland gave for this gerrymander which operated for a period of 25 years. 
It was  Mr Gair.  That was under a Labor redistribution. I can quote the figures for the 1947 and 1950 elections in Queensland. In 1947 Labor polled just under 43 per cent of the total vote and won 35 seats. In the same year the UAP-Country Party coalition polled 44.26 per cent of the total vote and won 23 seats. It had a majority of 2 per cent of the vote but it won 12 seats fewer than Labor. At the next election held in 1950 Labor with 46.3 per cent of the vote won 42 seats. The Liberal-Country Party coalition with 48 per cent of the vote - 2 per cent more than Labor - won 31 seats which was 1 1 seats fewer than the Labor Party won. Now this Minister, this Party, this Government comes to us and tells us that they are not interested in a gerrymander. They say: All we are trying to do is to bring about justice. All we are trying to do is to bring about a situation of one vote one value. This has always been enshrined in Labor policy.' I say that those figures show how insincere Labor's claims are. That is why the Labor Party destroyed itself in Queensland and why it was thrown out of office. At that time the black days ended and Queensland's salvation came. 
Clause 3 would eliminate those factors which Labor at one time thought were necessary but about which now for political expediency Labor has changed its mind. This provision will not establish democracy; it is a denial of the rights of electors. Electors have a right to have ready access to their member. They have the right to expect a continual physical coverage of his electorate. They have the right to expect him to be available to every local authority and in every local authority area in his electorate. They expect him to be in attendance at functions throughout his electorate and to be available to his electors virtually at any time. This is easy and even practicable in the cities where the size of electorates is 3 or 4 square miles. But in country electorates this type of representation is faced with formidable problems. It would be impossible for members who represent rural areas adequately to look after their electors if this Bill came to fruition because the special interest provisions would be eliminated and country seats would become larger and city seats smaller. This legislation would make it impossible for a country member to service adequately his electorate and it would deny country electors the democratic rights to which they are entitled. 
The Minister said that Australians are Australians. He went on to say that the people of this country are not divided into 2 great camps - those of city and country. But the Minister then went on to create 2 great camps. One camp will be a favoured camp where people have ready access to their member of Parliament who has a small area to service and the other camp will be the vast rural area, such as that of Queensland. Even now these areas are almost impossible to service. But the Minister wants to make the load of country representatives even greater. He wants to deny to the electors who live in these areas their democratic rights. What the Minister has proposed is not democratic. He spent half of his speech attacking the Country Party as did every other speaker from the other side of the House. The Minister gagged the debate when only 4 Country Party members out of 12 who wanted to speak on the second reading debate had had a chance to do so. He gagged the debate because he knew from where his opposition was coming - from the Country Party. 
At what section is the Minister aiming in this Bill? He is not concerned only with the Country Party. He is aiming at every country elector in Australia who lives outside the capital cities. The Minister wants to give more seats to electors in the cities of Sydney, Melbourne, Newcastle and Wollongong which already have half of the members in this place. How many more does the Minister want. I oppose this clause and I oppose the Bill because I remember Labor in Queensland in the 1930s, the 1940s and the 1950s. I remember the injustices that took place in that State. I judge the Labor Party and condemn it on its record in Queensland. I remember the Labor Party's gerrymandering. What Labor has done in the past it now wants to do in this legislation. This Bill is part of a process towards that end. I will oppose the clause under consideration and the Bill with my vote. 
As the honourable member for Fisher I represent a country electorate. It is one of the fastest growing electorates in Queensland. It has almost every form of rural production; it has a number of very fast developing provincial cities; and it has the beautiful Sunshine Coast. I am rising tonight to protest at the deliberate attacks that have been made by this Government on the interests and rights of country people. Countless attacks have been made in this House, ostensibly on the Country Party; but I claim that they are directed not against the Country Party but against everyone who lives in the country. Not only have the attacks been made; there has been an indifference and callousness directed against country people. I believe that this is because the Labor Party's policy has largely been rejected in the country areas of Australia. 
I want to instance this policy because the Labor Party says that it cares for people. We care for people, too. But the Labor Party does not appear to care for country people. I want to refer to a number of legislative measures which have been introduced by this Government and which, I believe, are not only directly contrary to country interests but are directed at and against country interests. The first concerns revaluation, a subject on which I have spoken in this House on a number of occasions. Honourable members opposite have even told us that it has been good for us. I refer to the dairy, sorghum and mining industries, to name just 3 that are in real trouble because of the appreciation of the Australian dollar and the failure to follow the American dollar down. The effect for the moment has been masked in some areas because of the good world prices for beef and sugar, and up to now for wool, but I note that today wool prices dropped by 45 per cent. The sugar producers of Queensland have absolutely no illusions about what revaluation will do. That was made evident at a recent conference of sugar producers in Queensland. Revaluation is a direct thrust at the rural producers and country people. 
The second piece of legislation I have in mind is the Remuneration and Allowances Bill which represented an attempted denigration of the Country Party and an absolute non-concern with the difficulties that country members have in respect of allowances. Again this was not so much an attack on the Country Party as an attack on country people, and it has been interpreted that way, at least throughout my electorate. I refer next to the Electoral Bill which was passed by this House yesterday. Just about every Government  speaker  attacked the Country Party by name with some of the unkindest cuts I have ever heard. The Country Party had advised that a number of our members would speak on that Bill, but they were gagged despite what the Minister for Services and Property and Leader of the House.  (Mr Daly)  had told us. 
My colleague is right. The Minister assured us that we would all get a turn and then gagged us. He said: 'You will get a go at the Committee stage'. But we were gagged again. This was a silencing not of the Country Party but of the country voice. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I will turn to another aspect about which I am very concerned and on which questions have been asked in this House. When answers have been given, they have not been satisfactory. I am referring to the operations of the Postmaster-General's Department in country areas. I have made representations galore to Directors of Posts and Telegraphs and to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on behalf of country people who urgently need telephones connected. These people have virtually no amenities. In a number of cases 1 have forwarded medical certificates that to me, as a layman, appeared to necessitate urgent action. Yet the answers given in this House are that such connections are not economic. Has the concept of providing a service been thrown overboard for the sake of economics? I know of people with telephones connected on party lines who were assured that, if they erected and maintained those lines, when the time came for renewal the service would be renewed by the government. I am speaking of services that were installed much longer ago than 23 years, so 1 hope I will not get the usual cry back at me. It looks as though those people will not have the promises made to them honoured. 
I have had numerous complaints about mail deliveries in the country that are being reduced from 6 days a week to as few as 3 days a week. Not only does this cut out essential mail services but also it reduces their newspaper deliveries, which often are associated with the delivery of other things. We read that there is to be a declassification of 300 official post offices to the status of nonofficial post offices. I guarantee that none of those post offices will be city post offices and I guarantee that this is a step towards the closing of more non-official post offices in country areas. My Party, when it was in Government and since it has left office, has fought to maintain these non-official post offices. 
The next point I turn to is the report in today's newspapers about the establishment of what is called a 'new task force' to look into a number of matters. But right at the top of the agenda of things to be examined are primary industry subsidies and tax concessions to primary industries. I guarantee that there is no thought of increasing the subsidies or concessions. This is another thrust at the primary producer. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has said that he will not allow primary industries to have unwarranted protection and that rural industries will not be allowed to soak up funds which would be better applied to some other causes. So this is another real threat to the country people. I could not notice the name of any representative of rural interests listed as a member of that task force. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  appointed a Minister for Primary Industry from the Senate and this Minister has been so outspoken in the ways I have mentioned that the rural people are really concerned. They are concerned that the Government has no thought or care for the primary producers of Australia. Recently in this House I heard an honourable member talking about the phenomenal bank balances of farmers. These are not the farmers whom I know in my electorate. 
That would be right. Their balances are in the red and if this Government continues their balances will never be anything else but in the red. To cap it all off we had the announcement of the Prime Minister in this House yesterday that while the Minister for Primary Industry is overseas his representative will be  Senator Cavanagh.  The reception that the announcement received in this House will be equalled by the reception it receives in the country areas of Queensland. 
Due to the respective numbers of the Parties in the House and the fact that I believe the  Speaker  has very fairly tried to allot questions according to those numbers, it is a little difficult for members of my Party to ask many questions because, in effect, we are able to ask one question in every 6 that are asked. I have been attempting to address a question of some urgency to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Today, when I felt that I might have had an opportunity to address the question to him at question time, he was not present in the House. 1 do not want to be unfair. He might have a very valid explanation for this. But I hope the Government will realise the importance of question time to backbenchers who are so regularly precluded from asking questions because of the applica tion of the gag.I hope that Ministers will endeavour to be present to allow backbench members in particular at least an opportunity to ask questions. 
The matter about which I wanted to ask my question is so important that I feel I must now speak in the adjournment debate to ventilate it. I refer to the planning and construction of a new post office at Nambour in Queensland. The previous Government had received deputations and made inspections and had agreed that the present premises were antiquated and totally inadequate. A promise was made by that Government to acquire a site and to complete plans for a new post office in this financial year which is fast running out. I believe that construction was to be undertaken in the next financial year. We were assured that the present Government would proceed along the same lines and adhere to the same program. I believe that this was a specific promise by the PostmasterGeneral. Accordingly, a site tentatively was chosen in an excellent position in Currie Street, Nambour. But the owner of the premises became frustrated by procrastinations by the Postmaster-General's Department and by the fact that the Department just would not indicate when it would proceed. It would not resolve the question of price. There was a great saga of indifference, indecision and dillydallying by the Department. 
Property values in Nambour are rising rapidly and finally the owner sold the site and premises to another purchaser. The seller, through legal advisers and through every other available channel, just could not obtain any satisfaction or answers from the Department. Now the site is lost. I lay the blame fairly and squarely at the door of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. As the local member, I have been unable to find out any details of the intentions of the Department. I believe that this is a shocking state of affairs. I have learnt everything I know about the matter from estate agents. They tell me that some time ago an inspection was made of other possible sites. But apparently, the Department is still proceeding at the same pace and with the same indifference. These sites also will be lost unless the Department takes meaningful action to honour its promise. Can I be blamed for coming to the conclusion that it now appears that the promises and the expressed policies of the Government cannot be taken seriously? What can I believe in the matter? 1 am happy to see that the PostmasterGeneral has entered the House. Quite frankly, I want some answers. I want to know what is being done in the matter. Is he aware that in Nambour, where development is proceeding so rapidly, a site must be acquired quickly because they are so few that Nambour is missing out all along the line. For 6 months I have been trying to get my parliamentary office shifted from Brisbane to Nambour. I know personally how difficult it is to obtain sites and premises. I hasten to assure honourable members that I do not blame the Department of Services and Property. It has worked very hard to assist me. I appreciate this. The remarks that I make tonight are not meant as criticism of that Department. I have received cooperation and I believe that we might be getting somewhere. However, I raise this matter as an example to show the Postmaster-General that the longer there is a delay in this area the dearer will be the price and the more difficult it will be to acquire a site. It is not stretching the position to say that it might be impossible to acquire an adequate site. 
I want to know what the Department is doing. Will the Minister tell me? I believe that as the elected member I have a right to know. I saw some statements in the local Press some months ago to the effect that the Department was to proceed on the original site, was to stop the sale and was to implement the acquisition of the site. I asked the Director of Posts and Telegraphs about this development and he said: 'Yes, that is right'. I believe that planning had been done on that basis and that this planning could be completely wasted and useless if, because of the delay and dillydallying, the site has been lost. I want to be told something that is concrete and something that I can believe. I want to know when an announcement will be made. As a member, I object to having to find out crumbs of information by quizzing estate agents. I object to this blanket of silence. Why should this be? 1 hope that this case does not reflect the Government's attitude to members who are on the Opposition side of the House. 
I am worried because we have spoken before on matters which involve the PostmasterGeneral's Department and about which we are very concerned. I have written a number of letters, both to the Department and to the Minister, who is aware of the scores of representations that I have made. Members of my Party have asked questions and have spoken on these matters during adjournment debates. I believe they are relevant. We country people are beginning to know the score because we have seen reduced mail services, the closure of post offices and the impossibility of obtaining country telephone connections. We are aware of the chaotic telephone conditions on the Sunshine Coast. It is not a question of economics. The Minister said in this House  -  I hope that he said this facetiously - that it is cheaper to buy a farm than to connect a telephone to it. I assure him that that remark was noted in country areas and that country electors will not forget it. 
Another matter which I wish to raise is the serious delay in the opening of the Maroochydore post office. The building of this post office has been delayed because an underground spring has been tapped and water cannot be kept from seeping through the floor. I do not blame the Minister for this. I am aware that it is an engineering problem. However, I hope that he will tell us now what the position is, what is being done and what remedies are being taken. I hope that the Minister will not leave it to us to guess the answers. Can he give us a timetable for what will be done in that area? All the Department in Queensland said to the Press was: 'No comment'. I ask the Minister strongly and sincerely to say without prevarication what is happening in regard to the Nambour post office. We want to know whether the whole project will be pushed back another year or longer. Will the Minister tell us when we can expect some movement and when the construction stage will be reached? My electors and I want to know when action will commence. I ask the Minister to keep me fully informed on this matter because I believe that that is my right and that is what the electors expect of me. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I say, in a kindly way that I have been misrepresented on 2 counts. I do not think it has been done deliberately. The implication was made that I was blaming the Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Queensland. This is not so. I hasten to assure everybody that I regard him very highly as a very competent man. Any accusations I made were in relation to matters of policy and the things I said were directed at the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  because I felt that the matters I raised were his responsibility. I thank him for his answers. I was misrepresented also in that the Minister said he did not know that I would be raising the matters. This is implying that I did not seek to tell him. I sent a message through the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  at dinner last evening. I noted that the Postmaster-General was not here. I said that I did not want to speak in his absence but that the matter was important, and the Leader of the House assured me that he would get a message to the Postmaster-General that I was to speak and telling him the matter on which I was to speak. I want to make it clear that it may not have been deliberate but I was misrepresented in relation to those 2 factors. 
My question which is addressed to the Postmaster-General relates to an article which appeared in the Brisbane Sunday Sun' of 13 May headed 'Little Watergate on North Coast' which I showed to him this morning and in which I think he will agree very serious allegations were made. I ask him: Is there any truth in the report that he has received complaints of frequent telephone tapping in the Maroochy Shire, particularly at the time of the recent elections? ls there any truth in the report that last month he ordered an inquiry into the allegations? Did he send inspectors to the area to inquire into the matter? If so, is the inquiry able to report whether there is any substance in the allegations? Will he at a convenient time advise the House when, under what circumstances and on whose authority telephones can be tapped? 
I do not intend to speak at any length. I commend both the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  on some very provoking thoughts and a very excellent contribution to this debate. This legislation is rather complex. It is a voluminous document. It does break some new ground. The Australian Country Party is supporting these Bills because the previous Government framed legislation which embodied the same intention as this legislation. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made reference to that fact in his second reading speech. I agree that if these Bills had been introduced separately they would have been somewhat deficient. I think that there is still a lot to be done in this field. This is just a first step. I was interested to read in the Treasurer's second reading speech that other areas of investigation will be undertaken particularly to protect policy owners and to safeguard the community interest in general insurance. I think that these investigations ought to be made and I approve of them. 
I will not take up the time of the House in discussing the areas of investigation further because we will have an opportunity to do that at a later stage. Unfortunately all too often in recent years - I think the honourable member for Hawker mentioned 16 companies - there have been cases of insurer failures. These have resulted in loss and hardship and an undermining of public confidence. It is not sufficient to say that the public should be more discerning in placing their insurance business. Quite frankly that is not the answer because there are so many companies and there is so little information about many of them. I feel that in introducing these Bills the Treasurer has taken the first step which is necessary to restore public confidence and to provide adequate supervision and standards for those who wish to establish themselves in the field of general insurance. The system under which we have worked in which virtually any person can pay a small deposit and open an insurance business free from any effective supervision has just not been good enough. This has led not only to the failure of companies but also to disaster, loss and hardship for many policy owners who, in good faith, have done the prudent and wise thing and have insured their property and possessions only to find when they have made a claim that the company has become insolvent or has ceased to operate. So this Bill is a step along the road towards remedying these deficiencies. 
I studied very closely the clauses in the Bill. I have gone through the Bill in detail. 1 note that there is to be an insurance commissioner and a tribunal. I think this is good. One aspect of the Bill that I do like is that which deals with the standards of accounting and recording that are to be maintained. This is good because it will provide information and protection, and I endorse those actions of the Treasurer. In addition, proper auditing of those accounts is provided for in the Bill. These are methods of protection, and if a company is honest it has nothing to fear by keeping such records and making such declarations. There are provisions in the Bill for lodging appeals and I think they are adequate. The position of Lloyds Underwriters has been provided for. I was interested in the comments of the honourable member for Hawker. I find myself in agreement with what he said but no doubt as times goes by, as the Treasurer said, there will be more investigation and the points made by the honourable member for Hawker may be caught up in later legislation. 
The main provisions of the Bill which must be complied with are detailed in it. The BUI talks about the applicant being a body corporate and, under clause 23, having a paid up capital of not less than $200,000 or, in lieu of that capital, assets of that amount. It also provides that where the body corporate is incorporated in Australia it shall have assets in excess of liabilities of not less than $100,000. To a layman this would seem adequate. I am not able to comment on whether it is adequate but the Treasury is equipped to look into this aspect. In general the Treasurer has stated that the Bill sets out to establish an adequate and comprehensive system of supervision. This is important, it is overdue and it is necessary. I think the Treasurer is right in trying to establish that companies are not likely to go insolvent and leave the premium payer high and dry, suffering not only hardship and loss of premium but also loss of property for which he would receive no compensation whatsoever. 
My Party approves these Bills and does not intend to move amendments. We do not intend to speak at length because we do not want to delay the House. We endorse what the Treasurer has done, and the idea he has put forward of making further investigations. There is, however, one caution that I would administer. Investigations into general insurance are to be endorsed but there must never be any endeavour to exercise any sort of socialistic control over insurance company funds because that we would oppose and would not tolerate. In fact, the people of Australia would not tolerate it, as they showed very clearly 23 years ago. This legislation is good. It provides conditions under which new insurance companies are to be established. It does not impose undue fetters on those insurance companies that exist now. There are many reputable companies which have provided excellent service and are financially sound. I support the Bill because I believe it to be a constructve and determined effort to rectify a situation which has caused a lot of worry and damage to public confidence. The Country Party endorses this Bill and the associated Bills and will be voting for them. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Although it deals also with overseas trade, perhaps he could answer it. Has he seen reports that the United States of America has accumulated a stockpile of minerals which would supply the world's minerals and energy requirements for 3 years? Has he also seen the reports that this stockpile is now to be released and, presumably thrown on the free market? Could the Minister tell us what effect this is likely to have on Australia and other countries which are significant mineral exporters? 
I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 5 1 shall move: 
That the Government institute a committee of inquiry to include medical, religious, social welfare and economic representatives with wide terms of reference, to consider fully and advise this Parliament on the manner in which all citizens irrespective of their economic circumstances can be assisted, advised, and helped in such matters as: 
All aspects of family planning even to the extent of providing responsible clinicsfor the purpose. 
Sex education and guidance, including assistance to parents who find that they cannot adequately provide such training to their children. 
How every Australian-born child shall not be denied adequate opportunity nor the necessities of life however unfortunate the circumstances of their birth. 
How such assistance can best be afforded without the encouragement of promiscuity or deni- gration of moral responsibility. 
Provisionand improvement of creche, kindergarten and child minding facilities for working mothers. 
That all matters relevant to these national  problems beinvestigated with emphasis on the sanctity and preservation of life. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  has agreed to second the motion. 
As this is a cognate debate - and I appreciate the need for that - I will not have an opportunity to speak to more than one Bill, that is, the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1973. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  was right when he said in his second reading speech that this Bill and the memorandum to it were voluminous. It most certainly is voluminous. It calls for a lot of study. I spoke about this Bill with many highly qualified people. I would like to make one comment in that regard. I want to express my appreciation to the Commonwealth Taxation Office for the great deal of information and help I received. My opinions do not always coincide with the office's, but I very much appreciated the assistance I received. I think much of this Bill is acceptable. It is described as a measure which is designed to close certain loopholes in the existing law. Of course, that is extremely necessary. 
The first one being dealt with is the concessional deduction applicable to short term endowment assurance policies. In my extensive accountancy practice I have not seen this used to any extent, but I accept the. Treasurer's statement that it is a widespread practice and have no objection to his taking this action. I think this makes sense. In fact, the Treasurer's comments on the purposes of this deduction and the purposes of life assurance are quite in accord with my own views. He said that they should be provided to encourage a person to make, financial provision for his own retirement, or for his dependants when he dies. Perhaps, too, there are a couple of more permissible rules for taking out insurance. One is assistance to and payment of premiums for an initial period for dependent children until they are able, to assume responsibility for their own premiums. This is done, of course, because the earlier in life premiums are started the better the cover obtainable at a reasonable cost. It also allows self-employed people and rural producers to provide some sort of superannuation for themselves. 
Another important point is that it is a means by which a person can make some provision for the payment of the often crippling and indefensible incidence of death duties. Successive Budgets have given certain concessions in this realm but this has been largely nullified because of fast rising values and inflationary pressures. I say briefly in passing that I hope the Treasurer will, in his Budget considerations, look at the $1,200 allowance that is now permitted as an income tax deduction concession. I believe that when all these considerations are taken into account there is a case for this amount to be increased because a policy that looks quite attractive when it is taken out and which operates over  a  fairly long term is not nearly sufficient by the time it matures. That is all I have to say about that matter. I hope that the Treasurer  Will  at least look at this concession in the light of what I have said, because I feel that it can now be claimed to be inadequate. 
The part of the Bill which is aimed at the elimination of loss company trading is understandable. I have no serious objection to the intent of the Bill on this point. I do not oppose the greater portion of this Bill but there is one portion of it that I am very unhappy about because it introduces a principle which is unacceptable, unpardonable and unfair. In dealing with excess dividend distributions by private companies the principle of retrospectivity has been introduced. I believe that this has not been done in the history of the Australian revenue laws. I believe it should be avoided because retrospectivity would be unprincipled, immoral and revulsive. It is to be condemned in this case because it is not an adjustment that resulted from an unexpected court interpretation nor a reinforcement of existing tests. On the contrary, it is a breach of a simple provision in the present Act which allows excess distributions to be carried forward and offset against a future under-distribution. I do not think that this provision will be readily translatable because many experienced professional men have gone to the Press and have spoken to me about their differences as to the extent of this retrospectivity. I have even heard suggestions that, in the light of proposed new section 106a, it could involve returns as far back as 1936. I did not read this into the provision and I will not pursue it. There is still some retrospectivity in the Act. 
I started with the intention of moving an amendment to the second reading, but I am heartened indeed to see the amendment which has been proposed by my colleague the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and the amendment which is to be moved by the Treasurer. This will take a lot of sting out of whatI have to say but nevertheless I think these things should be said because there are one or two other aspects to consider. I know that my proposed amendment will be sweeping and I do not intend to press it to the division stage. However, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted so that those sections which relate to dividends and excess distribution shall not have retrospectivity'. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  is prepared to second the amendment. Excess distribution companies will be of no value in the year from 1 June 1972 unless certain stringent tests of continuing shareholding and continuing business apply. Retrospectivity is certainly attached to companies with respect to income derived by companies after 1 July 197.1. Returns for the year ended 30 June 1972 have been lodged, they would have been assessed and companies would have had to declare dividends by 30 April - a date which has now passed. The Bill will result in the rather unusual and unprecedented position of the Taxation Office going back, an effect, into a year that has closed. In fact, it means that actions of some companies which were legal say in April 1972, will now find them retrospectively, illegal. The proposed committee amendment seeks to allow a greater time in which these dividends can be more or less paid back - the process reversed. This, I suppose, would take care of a great number of the cases. I want the Treasurer to be clear on this point. I am not defending the company shells and the practice of trading in excess distribution companies. I am not defending that at all, and I am not defending the Treasurer's right to come down on those companies. I agree that he has that right and that duty. I do not have, and never have had in my professional association, anything to do with sharp practices. Therefore I want the Treasurer to know that I am not defending, for one moment, the continuation of this trading in company shells. I put to him however, a most unfortunate case - it has been looked at by the Taxation Office - which does not involve deliberate tax avoidance and yet it will be caught in the net of the proposed process, which is not reversible. That is the reason I have moved the amendment. 
If ever we introduced the principle of retrospectivity where would we end up? In fact, how could public accountants, tax agents or consultants of any kind assist forward planning or give sound advice when legal measures which are specifically enumerated and allowed under the Act can at some future date, because of the principle of retrospectivity, be deemed to be illegal and even attract penalties? Private companies have always had one serious disability. Public companies are not required to make specific dividend distributions. Their only consideration is the satisfaction of the shareholders. What they do may be different but that is the rule that binds them. They are not bound to make any specific dividend distributions but can, without penalty, conserve funds and make provisions for capital and expansion needs. A private company does not have these privileges. I agree that it has a privilege rate of tax of 37.5 per cent up to $10,000 profit and 42.5 per cent thereafter. After profit is assessed and tax is calculated, 50 per cent of the remainder must be distributed as dividends to avoid an undistributed profits tax of 50c in the $1, so it is always difficult to conserve funds. Expansion is severely hampered and it renders them not so able to compete with public companies. The Act provides some little help in this regard and private companies have used this Act to carry forward over-distributions. They have used this rule so that at some convenient time they were able to take these factors into account and were able to go into capital projects. 
Perhaps the amendment I moved is very sweeping. I believe that this portion of the Bill could net something like $50m in taxation for the Treasury. That could well be true because I know - certainly not as much as the Treasurer knows - that there are a lot of excess distributions around. 
Soon after the election the Treasurer made certain of his intentions clear. I think this was advisable and admirable; it let people know where they were going. He sounded a clear warning of his intentions with regard to short term endowment assurance policies. People who took out policies after 1 January cannot say that they were not forewarned. He told us what he intended to do about trading in loss companies, and the legislation is totally in line with what he said. But I did not hear him sound any warnings about the extent of his proposals on excess distributions. As the Bill now stands, without the amendments that are proposed, no time is allowed for adjustment; no transitional period is allowed. The retrospective nature of the Bill means that the new concept of continuity of shareholding between 2 periods will be these 2 periods: Firstly, the one commencing on 1 May 1971 and ending on 30 April 1972 and, secondly, the one commencing on 1 May 1972 and ending on 30 April 1973. Any dividends paid by a company during those 2 periods will not be taken into account for the purpose of excess distribution if there is not a continuity of shareholding - the same shareholding and continuation of business principle. 
I want to bring a case to the notice of the Treasurer. I do not think it is fully covered by the amendment. I have referred this case to the Commonwealth Taxation Office. It is one that has been caught up in the net and I would like note to be taken of it. This is an acual experience and I do not know how many more cases there would be. I am talking about a trading company in New South Wales. For tax purposes it is a private company. In February 1972, a long time before any of this happened, it commenced negotiations with a public company for the acquisition of 4 very large retail hardware stores. Included as a basic part of the deal was a company which owned a property in which one of the 4 hardware stores operated and which also held a large sum of money by way of deposits from the public. This is where the problem arose. The company could acquire that other company only if all the unwanted assets and reserves were taken out, and this necessitated a substantial dividend declaration immediately prior to the transfer of the company early in May 1972. It was this dividend which gave rise to the substantial excess distributions in question and this, of course, made a difference in the continuity of shareholding. 
The then company wanted to finance this acquisition and it borrowed very heavily from its bankers.  U  still could not quite manage. So, in assessing its ability to repay the bank over an 8-year period, it found that if it took into account these excess distributions it would not have to pay any dividends to the shareholders for a period. If this Bill becomes law as it stands, that company will be forced to pay each year a substantial part of its profits from its new acquisition to its shareholders. Thus it will be prevented from meeting its commitments to the bank. It looks as though it will have to sell its new acquisition. This was a commercial transaction and had nothing to do with tax avoidance. This firm never has had anything to do with tax avoidance. However, it cannot satisfy the continuing business test. 
This matter is rather complicated, but the Taxation Office has had a look at it and feels that this is a correct assessment of the position. The company cannot pay out these dividends by way of shares to the shareholders concerned because they then would be confronted with a tax bill which they could not meet; it would ruin them. The company cannot meet its commitments to the bank and, even if it struggles on somehow, a credit squeeze would be absolutely disastrous. That is why I say that, although the amendment will take care of many of the retrospectivity problems, nevetheless there are cases such as this that will not be taken care of. In fact, I am a little worried that the amendment might take care of the very companies whose practices the Treasurer seeks to stop. I refer to companies which are trading in these company shells where the process can simply be reversed. The amendment could help them out. However, the case I have mentioned is a genuine one relating to a commercial transaction that could well and truly be caught up. This matter has given me considerable worry, and that is why I have moved the amendment. In principle I agree with the Bill. I believe that tax avoidance must be looked at by any Treasurer and I agree with what the Treasurer is trying to do. But, where this principle of retrospectivity comes in, I think I have been able to show not only that it is dangerous but also that it can be most unfortunate. 
I want to say a couple of other things about this legislation. The last  speaker  on the Government side, the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  made certain comments which I think were not completely right or completely fair. I have been assured that almost all of the provisions in the clauses of the Bills that we are now considering had reached at least the drafting stage during the life of the previous Government. I do not think that he was being fair when he said that the previous Government was not responsible enough to look at these matters. It was responsible enough to do that. These matters had been brought to its attention by the Taxation Office - which, of course, is natural, necessary and right - and it was in the process of drafting legislation along similar lines. I ask the Treasurer to look at the matters I have raised. I am concerned about them and I am serious about them. That is the reason why 1 have moved the amendment. I want him to be clear about my reason. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is the amendment seconded? 
MrHallet - I have pleasure in seconding the amendment. 
Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 
I have not been in this House a long time but during the election campaign, and ad nauseam since December, we have heard the Government tell us how it espouses open government. This is a high sounding phrase which rolls nicely off the tongue. It is a nice cliche. Let us look at what it means, or what it means to me as  a  new member of this Parliament, by relating it to the performance of this Government. It seems to mean an AttorneyGeneral in the Australian Government in the dead of night, with Commonwealth Police officers, raiding the premises of a' security organisation and holding its officers and staff and preventing them from telephoning or advising anyone of what was happening. It means the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to this day, in my opinion, not giving the Parliament an answer as to why this was done. It means the Government using its members to push through a vote of confidence in the Attorney-General - this same AttorneyGeneral. For what was this a vote of confidence? In the Prime Minister's own words it was for the greatest mistake committed by this Government since it assumed office. That is' a strange thing about which to move a vote of confidence. It seems to mean a lack of desire to clarify the contents of a supposed telex message which would indicate whether a full, frank and truthful answer had been given by the Prime Minister to a question which was asked in this House. If this is what open government means and if this is an exposition of open government, I do not like it. I prefer democracy as I have known it and as I understand it. 
Perhaps we should look in some other direction to see what open government means. It seems to mean - the Prime Minister admitted this in answer to a question - that very often policy details and important announcements are released first at Press interviews and the Parliament is advised, if at all, second, third or fourth hand. It seems to mean that this Parliament should not complain if statements are not made initially in the House of the elected representatives of the people of Australia. It seems sometimes to mean that the further away from Canberra a Minister is the better the opportunity to make an announcement of some import. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  chose Paris to make a devastating statement about primary industry in Australia. The Prime Minister made a statement from Ottawa and the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  made statements from diverse parts of the world. I want to be fair. I know that the House was not sitting at that time, but I think too many policy announcements are being made anywhere but in the Parliament of this country. Open government seems also to mean the baring of a soul on a television program conducted by an overseas compere and then at question time clamming up and not being drawn further when questions are asked about this interview. If this is open government I do not like it. It is not parliamentary government; it is not government by the elected representatives of the people. 
Perhaps it does not mean these things. Perhaps it means something else again. Perhaps it represents a unique way of silencing the 
Premiers of our States and denying them the right to discuss the allocation of moneys and other matters which are essential to a continuation of the States. How is this done? By the simple expediency of cancelling Premiers' conferences after next year. Perhaps it means an incursion into and a usurping of the rights and powers of the Australian State Governments which, incidentally, are elected by the same voters who elected this Government to office. Perhaps it means promising help to the States and local authorities; then, if help is offered, ensuring that it has so many strings attached that they have no real say in how the money is to be spent; and then taking all this into account when making allocations to the States. If this is open government, I do not much like it, nor do the State Premiers, irrespective of their political philosophy, and no more does the Australian electorate like it. 
Perhaps open government means something else which is of real concern to me - the consigning into oblivion of all Australians who are unfortunate enough to live in country areas. Perhaps it means the creation of fewer and fewer rural electorates and the removal of those considerations of area, considerable distances, difficult terrain, sparsity of population and other things which, when taken into account, at least gave them some small voice in government. Perhaps it means making their petrol so dear that they will not be able to travel these distances, anyway. Perhaps it means the criticism and removal of subsidies and tax concessions which compensated them for disastrous seasons and1 fluctuating and uncertain prices. Perhaps it means action to make Postmaster-General's charges so prohibitive that, in an endeavour to silence country protests, country newspapers will be forced out of business. Perhaps it means reduction of capital expenditure which would deny them telephones. They then could not talk to each other and compare notes. Perhaps it means reducing the frequency of country mail services. I have spoken of this before, but it is still happening with alarming frequency. 
Perhaps it means the dangling of election promises of $500m for rural finance for long term credits at 3 per cent. What have we seen? An amount of $20m was provided in this Budget, but I suspect that it is a reallocation of money that was not appropriated in the last Budget anyway. Perhaps 'open Government' means the announcement of funds for rural reconstruction, a good portion of which had already been committed by the previous Government. Perhaps we are expected to accept the reassurances from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  that the removal of the exemption of sales tax from carbonated beverages will not hurt at all, that the Government is standing by. We heard a lot last night about the Government standing by and that is what I am afraid it will be doing. It will stand by and see the primary producer go into oblivion. This is a disaster for fruitgrowers. It will result in a substantial loss of sales of fruit juice and a promotion of synthetic products. Already, I have started to send to the Treasurer some of the protests I have received. Perhaps it means removing the means test on pensions for a very small number of elderly Australians and then taking some of the benefit back in taxation. Or perhaps it relates to debate in this House, which I understand is the forum of the elected representatives of the Australian people. We heard today that the Government aims at a type of sausage machine production of a record number of Bills, the mechanism of achievement apparently being the number of Bills which are put out by this House. How is it done? By the use of the gag and the guillotine. Does it mean that when the Prime Minister makes a statement relating to overseas visits a significant Party in this Parliament - the Australian Country Party - is denied the opportunity to provide a single  speaker  in comment? 
When I came to this House I was naive enough to imagine that open government meant adequate opportunities to participate in full debate on legislation in which we were interested. How wrong I was. It is all very well to blame previous goverments for what they may or may not have done; this Government will be judged on its actions. If this is the Government's definition of 'open government', all the comic speeches in the world will not alter the fact that it is an atrocious type of government. I am bemused and confused, and I think that many other people are also. I do not like open government as it is presented by this Government. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I, too, claim to have been misrepresented. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  should well know that preferences have never been counted in the electorate of Fisher and that there has been a very big margin in that electorate on all occasions. 
In supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and seconded by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  I draw attention to the fact that it has some similarity to the motion of which I gave notice on 29 May. I want to make one thing clear about what was said by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  I take him to task on 2 points. I take him to task for saying that he had consultation with me. If consultation is about 2 sentences in the passage outside the chamber. I suppose he did have consultation with me. But, in view of the fact that I had had that motion on the notice paper for so long and he and everyone else knew that my door was open and that I was trying to look at the problem, I say that I was not consulted. In fact, I have had to work very much on my own. I also take the honourable member for Hotham to task for saying that the amendment precludes certain areas of inquiry that he wants to see inquired into. It does not.  His  statement shows that he did not read very closely paragraph (d) of our amendment, which refers to the social, economic, psychological and medical pressures of which he spoke. In fact, towards the end of his speech he again centred his remarks entirely on the fact that this inquiry basically is an inquiry into aspects of abortion, and very little else. 
In speaking to the private members Bill in May, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  expressed very well a view which was widely held by many members on both sides of the House, although a free vote was allowed on that Bill. The Leader of the Country Party opposed, as did this House, a motion to permit abortion on request and an associated amendment. I found myself in total agreement with his statement that the problems which were enunciated at that time were of national concern and of considerable magnitude. We rejected the narrow, unacceptable proposal put forward at that time, but he and others said - I believe this - that the problems should not be swept under the carpet and forgotten but should be studied in depth to discover answers and solutions which are not offensive, confined or insufficient but are practical, effective and humane. 
I believe that this amendment is a positive step along that road. It appears to have similar motives and intentions to the motion of which I gave notice, and therefore I support it. I cannot support the motion itself any more than I could have supported the original notice of motion which it has replaced or the subsequent notices of motion which have appeared almost every week. I cannot support the motion because I believe that it is narrow and negative. I believe that it is an indirect means of achieving the result that would have been achieved by the amendment which was moved by the same honourable member in May and which we rejected decisively. 
This motion is deficient in a number of areas. It calls for a judicial inquiry by one sole judge. I feel that, right at the outset, this would prejudice the information and full comprehension which honourable members have shown they desire. Under the terms of the amendment, an inquiry would utilise medical, social worker, religious, legal, educational, economic and - if you like - female representation, which would make available the expertise which is so vitally necessary. Whether we care to admit it or not and whether the mover and seconder of the motion, the honourable members for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  and Hotham deny it or not, medical and psychological problems are an integral part of this question. Education is fundamental, legal implications inevitably are to be considered, religious and moral persuasions cannot be absolutely ignored and social and economic implications are not only relevant but also deeply fundamental. To limit the inquiring authority to one Federal judge, no matter what his excellence and even his understanding may be, is to so limit the value and scope of the expertise which is so necessary that it would risk the imposition of a single point of view, invite criticism and lack of co-operation which could well be avoided and which must be avoided, and render the consequential advice a good deal less valuable than it could, should and must be. 
We want from this motion more than mere availability of contraceptive facilities and techniques. We are interested in the rights of children as well as the rights of women and the value and worth of the family unit, rather than the concept of sex without responsibility. We want ignorance to be dispelled. We want to look positively at the implications and complications of unplanned - unwanted, if you like - and often economically disastrous pregnancies. We also want to assist people who want children but whose circumstances are such that family planning, even family limitation, is not only desirable but also necessary. I have no right - the honourable member for Hotham can be assured of this - and I make no attempt to impose my own moral persuasions and standards on other people. No matter how impolitely the honourable member for Hotham may care to label me, I still value the institution df marriage, the trust between marriage partners and the role of the family unit and I see danger in the denigration of moral standards. I am firm on that point and I believe in those things. 
This does not make me a judge of others; but it does not render me incapable of understanding, for instance, the trauma of teenage extra-marital pregnancies, nor does it cause me to stand in condemnation. But it does make me concerned with the inadequacies of existing education and counselling programs. It makes me concerned to provide knowledge and help in the place of ignorance and disaster. It makes me concerned to encourage, beginning at medical school as is stated in the amendment, the training of the medical profession in the important role of family planning and contraceptive counselling, as well as its acceptance of it, because so often it is the doctor lone who has the opportunity which is often denied to parents, friends or other advisers. Very often, the doctor is the only person who is consulted and who can give such advice. 
It makes me concerned to see that there is absolute adequacy in the provision of effective, active and fully trained family planning advisers, and facilities and clinics available and accessible to all. I am completely and sympathetically aware of the pressures resulting from unplanned and unwanted pregnancies - I think  the  amendment states this - and I am aware not only of the conflict of mind in determining whether to proceed with a pregnancy or to terminate it but also of the fact that some people contemplate suicide and other equal disasters. This amendment seeks to detail many of those pressures and to suggest a scope of inquiry. Perhaps the list is not exhaustive; but I believe that, if our inquiry is not at least as comprehensive as this, it will be of little value. If this amendment is passed, the implementation of this complete and comprehensive open inquiry will provide the means by which, with greater certainty and with more complete knowledge, we can move constructively to solve or at least to alleviate problems, heartaches and torments which undoubtedly exist. The motion will not achieve this. It is narrow and limited and it touches the mere fringe of the problem. The concluding few words of the final clause might be high sounding and impressive, but they are so vague that to me they are suspect. 
Perhaps the inquiry is comprehensive and perhaps the scope suggested  is  wide; but surely the problem is of vast proportions. If any honourable member had any doubt about this, it should have been quickly dispelled by the unprecedented influx of letters and petitions which we all received prior to the private members Bill concerning abortion which was presented in May this year. Many of the letters received were sincere and plaintive cries for help. This amendment is an earnest endeavour to answer those pleas. The adequacy and availability of contraceptives, advice on contraceptive techniques and family planning facilities are most certainly fundamental and at the heart of the inquiry, but the motion itself makes this virtually the total scope of the inquiry. Paragraph 1 (e) which was amended again last night is something of an afterthought. I believe that paragraph 1 (d) reveals the real intent of the motion and the emphasis is absolutely evident. I do not at all deny the rights and the problems of the mother but 1  refuse  to ignore the rights of the child. I am in full accord with the United Nations declaration incorporated in the amendment. 
The motion ignores almost entirely that declaration. To pass the motion is not to solve the problem; it is to substitute other equally vexing problems in its place. I thank the mover of the motion for even using some of my exact wording in the latter part of his motion but that does not make the motion any more acceptable to me. In fact I am amazed at the course of action taken by the movers of this motion. Having given notice of a motion centred completely on a move for an inquiry into abortion and abortion alone, I was then prompted to give notice of a motion providing what I considered was a much more acceptable, reasonable, constructive and comprehensive alternative. Then the mover changed completely the wording of his motion and actually pirated some of my wording, presumably because he felt that his motion lacked the support which mine might attract. Despite changing his motion he still maintained his order of precedence in private members' business. But the intent of his original motion is not changed. It focuses completely on birth prevention, it ignores completely - despite the few words he added last night - the pressing needs of family life with its real and relevant problems. 
As the Archbishop of Canberra-Goulburn has rightly commented, the mover has attempted to find solutions without first examining the basic problems.  His  motion provides no machinery and no intent for a really comprehensive inquiry into social, economic, medical and social welfare problems of families. No matter what he says and how he condemns the amendment, the amendment does make that provision. In clearly making that provision it recognises the sanctity of life and the rights of the child. It seeks facilities and adequate opportunities for every Australian-born child, whatever his estate, whatever the circumstances of his conception. It provides also for a full and extensive evaluation of all the pressures on women beset by unwanted and unplanned pregnancies. At a quarter to eleven last night the last draft of the motion was presented to this House. I believe that it is a serious motion which warrants our consideration but how can members be expected to be able to study, research and analyse such important matters with that sort of notice? It is just as well that it hit the deck today or there would have been another one by lunch time. The new motion is just a little more piracy, a little more pinching from the amendment circulated earlier. It is a small concession to something that the Archbishop of Canberra-Goulburn said but I know that it will be totally unacceptable to him. lt is still transparent, deficient, narrow and negative. Obviously, the mover still does not know what he wants because he has changed his mind so often. 
I commend the amendment. I appeal to all honourable members to be so cognisant of these problems that they will not dismiss them and in the name of humanity will pass the amendment so that we can quickly and effectively meet the responsibilities which we should shelve no longer. I ask honourable members to reject the motion because it is a hotchpotch of additions, deletions and alterations and to support the amendment which is constructive and definite, as I have tried to show. The movers of the amendment know what is required. They have sought to obtain an inquiry that will be absolutely complete and will give us the information and guidance we need. It will tell us where we are going and it is not vaccillation from one proposal to another. I support the amendment and hope that honourable members will do likewise. 
My question is to the Minister for Social Security and relates to an allegation which he made during question time on Wednesday of the last week of sitting. Does the Minister recall that he said he had received a bundle of letters from Gympie in Queensland protesting against the proposed national health scheme and that he said many were written on the same note pad and that one person 'had written more than one of the letters? Is the Minister really conscious of the very widespread concern existing in Gympie over the national health scheme proposals and the Deeble report, evidenced by a hundred letters I have received over the last 2 days? As Gympie is in my electorate of Fisher, will the Minister agree to show me the letters to which he referred and will he demonstrate to me as the member for Fisher the basis on which he made such serious allegations before he dismisses these letters from my electors as insignificant? 
I find it hard to believe that the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  can say in all honesty that the Australian Labor Party is building up a more viable rural sector. I thought the demolition squad was in, not the builders. I was amused, too, at the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  who danced quickly into the chamber a few minutes ago and just as quickly went out again and who hurled by interjection a statement relating to what  Mr Hogan  of the Australian Farmers Federation was reported to have said yesterday. I hope the honourable member for Eden-Monaro will read just as assiduously a later Press release by  Mr Hogan  in which he said among other things that he wished to correct a misunderstanding which appeared to have come from his Press conference yesterday.  Mr Hogan  said that one report had confused the question of relations between the Australian Country Party and the farmer organisations. He had tried to make it clear that the Press had often fooled the public in creating an image of the Country Party as a handout party for farmers. In fact,  Mr Hogan  said, many good ideas had been placed before the Government by the farm groups and undoubtedly had been supported by the Country Party. There is more to  Mr Hogan's  statement, but what I have just read is quite different from what we read this morning. 
Although the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry occupy less than 4 pages, these few lines emphasise - if any further emphasis were necessary - what the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said in this House just 2 days ago. He said that under this Government country and rural people have been kicked and bashed viciously, discriminately and with unprecedented savagery. That same day, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke of the Coombs report. He referred to its recommendations with obvious approbation as removing wasteful expenditure. We know what he regards as wasteful expenditure; this Budget and these appropriations made that absolutely clear. The Prime Minister referred to concessions which applied to primary producers and primary production. On the same day, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  said in the House when speaking of the increases in the cost of living index that it was attributable to the pets of the Country Party because the greatest component in the increase was the rise in the cost of food. Let the honourable member for Phillip be fair. When he is looking at award rises and wage rises he looks also at the rises in the cost of living. When he is looking at the income of primary producers, let him then look at the whole picture. Let him remember how their income has fluctuated up and down over a period of years because of prices and because of a series of droughts and let him remember that many of the concessions that were written into the Australian statute books under a LiberalCountry Party Government were there to even out for the primary producer some of these great oscillations in their income. 
When I look at these estimates, of course, I find a savage reduction in the amounts allocated when compared with the previous year. There is no reduction in salaries and payments in the nature of salary. Naturally, these have risen because wage and salary levels have risen. Administrative expenses have risen for the same reason; this is understandable. But honourable members should have a look under the heading 'Other Services'. This is the section that tells the tale. This is the one that gets into the primary producer's pocket. There has been a savage reduction of more than $13m. When we examine where these reductions occur and when we compare them with the document of deceit that circulated last year called 'It's Time - Rural' we find that these 2 things are entirely incompatible. First of all, we see that there has been a reduction in butter and cheese bounties of $ 10.5m in these estimates - despite the celebrated telegram of the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  and despite all the denials which were given by the Labor candidate in my electorate and in every electorate in Australia who said that the Labor Party would not reduce subsidies. 
We could have a look at a few more industries. There has been the removal of the sales tax exemption on carbonated beverages with a 5 per cent fruit juice content. I hope to have an opportunity to say something further about that. The Government has raised many other costs in a lot of other estimates that have already been discussed. Suffice it for me to say that postal costs, fuel, radio station licences and land line fees have increased. All of these things hit in one place - in the country. They hit the primary producer. When we have a look at these estimates, what do we find about such things as the $500m at 3 per cent over 40 years which was promised before the election? Nothing at all. What we do find is an allocation of something like $20m and I think that that is just a reallocation. What about the promised interest rate of 3 per cent? Not only has the interest rate increased; we also find that the preferential interest rate that rural producers justifiably enjoyed previously has gone. 
It is  9(  per cent, as my colleague the honourable member for Mallee reminds me. Where in these estimates is the promised revaluation compensation provision? I know that some assistance has been provided for, I think, the apple and pear industry but that is not revaluation compensation; that is reconstruction. For all of the promises, I can see no provision in these estimates for anything like revaluation compensation. 
We see that the money provided by the estimates has been cut down, but let us have a look at the other side of the picture. Let us see what this Budget has done. This is closely tied up with these estimates. The accelerated depreciation rate for primary producers has been removed. What about the deduction in one year under sections 75 and 76 for certain capital improvements? That has gone. What about the investment allowance for new machinery purchased by farmers. That has been removed under the guise of removing the Pitt Street or the Collins Street farmers or what we call in Queensland the Queens Street farmers. Perhaps the Government has hurt one or two of them but it has hurt every other bona fide primary producer in Australia in a year when these things could not be afforded. After 5 years of drought, when incomes were looking a little better and when the farmer had a chance to undertake some capital improvements - when he did have a chance to renew some of his machinery that he has battled on with over the years because he could not afford to renew it - this Budget has savagely taken away the investment allowance. 
In regard to the Prime Minister's promise not to increase direct taxation, what is this if it is not such an increase? Do you not increase direct taxation when you take away all the concessions and deductions? Of course it is an increase in direct taxation. There has also been an increase in direct taxation of private companies which will affect quite a number of people engaged in rural industries. I believe that this Budget has cost the primary producer and the people in the country something like $150m. This is a tragic document. Every one of the documents accompanying the Budget contains a reference to the primary producer. Yet the honourable member for Darling gets up and talks about what the Labor Party is doing for the rural sector. I wonder what sort of reception he will receive on the platforms in his electorate in the next election when he goes out among the primary producers. It is no good saying that this Industries Assistance Commission will help because concessions for primary producers such as depreciation allowances will have to go through the Commission. We will have to start all over again. 
The Government will not help the primary producers. There is nothing left. It has taken away all of the primary producer's concessions and it has cut the estimates most savagely for the Department of Primary Industry in the category of 'Other Services'. The items are outlined. One is the assistance to various industries. Some industries will receive absolutely nothing and the allocation for others has been reduced savagely. I would say that the Bill giving the estimated expenditure for the Department of Primary Industry is a document of doom and will spell the doom of the Labor Party in rural electorates. There will be no rural rump left after the Labor Party goes to the people again. The Government refers to the Country Party as 'cockies corner'. But it should look at this Party's augmentation when we next go to the people and show them what this Government has done to the primary producers of Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - The honourable member's time has expired. 
I have listened to the speeches of members from Tasmania and to the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and I wonder why they are not supporting this amendment because what it seeks is to take the whole issue out of the region of vague promises and to get it written in black and white. That is an acceptable basis and is a good way in which to approach the matter. The Bill, as it stands, concerns me, particularly as I speak to the fruit growers in my electorate. The whole source of inspiration for this Bill seems to be the Coombs report. This is another burden which the Government has thrust on primary producers. I cannot find where, before this announcement was made or before this recommendation was seized upon, the industry was consulted or where it was thought about at all. In fact it is a snide way of taxing a field that has not been taxed before, because it is a tax that will have to 'be paid largely by the school children and the school tuckshops. They are the consumers of soft drinks and they are the ones who will have to pay for it. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that the benefit of this concession might have been something like a tariff. He said that the growers receive little help from it. But they did receive a very important and necessary benefit. They gained a market for fruit which was of considerable assistance to organised marketing and stability in the industry. We have heard members of the Opposition today putting the case for the apple industry. Those members included the honourable members for Angas  (Mr Giles),  Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and Maranoa  (Mr Corbett). 
An article in the 'Queensland Country Life' of 30 August by  Mr J.  F. S. Brown, of the Golden Circle Cannery, stated that Australia's apple growers had lost $4m annually as a result of this measure and that Granite Belt growers in the Maranoa electorate had lost at least $100,000 annually in a Treasury move to net another $25m a year.  Mr Brown  pointed out that retail prices had then already risen by 15 per cent to counter the sales tax. He said that 3 Australian companies had been holding $lm worth of apple juice at the time of the decision land this could now be poured down the drain because drink manufacturers would certainly revert to full water, sugar and other sweeteners for their products. He added that most of the apples had been processed. Who will suffer from this? Those who suffer will be the growers, who cannot get paid if the factories cannot dispose of the juice; the producers on soldier settlement blocks who are committed to heavy repayments and who must sell their fruit; and, as the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  pointed out, the road and rail transport operators because of contractions of the markets. 
The Budget Speech of the Treasurer, parroted the Coombs report. I regard it as an affront to the industry, because this was a concession sought by the industry in the first place. The Treasurer said that the concession is worth nothing. That is an implication that the industry has misled previous governments over the years. It cast doubts on the credence of the industry. I ask honourable members what confidence any rural industry can have about any sort of nearing from this Government. This should not have been done overnight; it must not be done overnight without consultation with the industry. That is why I support the amendment. That is what we are trying to achieve for the fruit growers. 
The 'Fruit and Vegetable News' of 30 August states that this Bill would be a disaster for fruit growing industry stability. That is a sobering thought because unless alternative outlets can be found for the juice it will flood the market and this could have disastrous consequences. The Treasurer contends that possibly more fruit juice would be sold but this is only if all present factors remain unchanged. This ignores the fact that apple and citrus fruit production represent quantities large enough to wreck the stability of the market completely. In a moment I will give some figures to support that contention. If one fruit juice is poured on to and gluts the market it will affect considerably all the other fruit juices that are on the market. This, of course, will affect my own State of Queensland. Queensland is affected by what happens in the south. If there is an over-supply in the south caused by a loss of market for fruit juices, these juices must be sold elsewhere. They will go to Queensland, and they will go to markets in other States which also will be affected. 
We already have heard about consideration of a reconstruction scheme or some compensation for the loss to the growers. I ask the Treasurer, with respect, how does he assess the value of that loss. What will the Government assess? It is not something that can be assessed on a once and for all basis? The surplus will be there to dispose of next year and the year after. Surpluses exist all the time. We have heard before of revaluation compensation and I hope that these words do not go into the same pigeon-hole. These words are soothing but they are humbug because they do not have any meaning at all. This is important. I have been advised that for the year ended 30 June 1973 59 million gallons of canned aerated waters, 138 million gallons of bottled waters and 1.3 million gallons of bulk waters were produced. This is a total of just under 200 million gallons. It is reliably estimated that 95 per cent of aerated waters contain at least 5 per cent fruit juice. That means that 9.5 million gallons of pure fruit juice are now at risk. The market has been jeopardised and this must represent a real threat to the stability of the industry. We are talking of 4.5 million bushels of Australian fruit, which includes about 900,000 bushels of citrus fruit and 76,000 tons of apples. 
This is not a minor Bill. It is not unimportant but is a real attack upon an important industry. We have to consider this, of course, in conjunction with the effect of the Governments revaluation measures previously implemented because already there have been serious effects on the industry due to revaluation. This measure will compound those effects. If honourable members doubt that the industry has been affected and that there is something of a disaster in the industry I remind them of the 30,000 bushels of navel oranges that cannot be sold so easily now in Singapore, if at all, because the industry cannot compete due to the competition following revaluation. 
The Treasurer said that the industry has not received any benefit .from this concession. Of course it had a benefit. It has assisted to provide stability and it has assisted to provide a good market - a market which will now be destroyed and further complicated by the loss of other markets because of the revaluation  measures of the Government. This is a discriminatory piece of legislation. It is in line with the deliberate course of action of this Government to have a bash at the primary producer at every point. This Government, which has said so much about not increasing taxation, has a very interesting philosophy. It now numbers among its taxpaying community recipients of social service benefits. Now, of course, the school children - by far the largest section of the consumers of soft drinks - either must pay more for their soft drink or the manufacturers may decide to make a smaller can for which. they will charge the same price. This section of people, these children, have already suffered from the decision of the Government to abolish the free milk scheme for schools. Surely the Government must see that this action, this legislation, has caused another price rise and is another coal in the fire of inflation. I think that we must discuss this matter with the industry.We must have a good look at it. We must see what the effects are and make sure that an industry that has already been bashed is not put out of production altogether. 1 support the amendment. 
Question put. 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lynch's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I want to take the opportunity as a backbencher to bring a matter to the attention of the House. I think it is a matter of great historical importance. Honourable members might have read that just off the coast of Mooloolaba at the moment are 3 balsa rafts forming what is known as the La Balsa expedition. This is rather an interesting expedition in that 12 scientists are making a trip by raft from Ecuador to Australia to show that it is not only possible but also probable that in primitive days such a trip was made. A similar trip was made some years ago by one raft. 
The leader of the present expedition is Vital Alsar. He is leading a multi-national expedition, with 5 nationalities represented in it. 
I do not want to take a lot of time on this matter, but I should like to bring it to the attention of the Government, for I believe that this is an historic occasion. The members of the expedition mortgaged their homes and sold everything they had in order to pay for the construction of the rafts to enable them to make this important journey in the interests of science and history. Having made it, and Australia having been associated with it, they would like the rafts to stay in this country. I know that many overseas governments and persons are interested in acquiring these rafts because of their historical value. However, as the members of the expedition would like the rafts to stay in Australia I ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government to consider well the question whether these rafts should be acquired. It has been suggested to me that one raft could be placed at Mooloolaba, where the landing will be made, one could be placed perhaps in Sydney, and one in the national museum. 
An interesting fact is that on the mast of one of the rafts is a painting that was painted for the expedition by Salvador Dali. It depicts a dolphin towing these 3 rafts. That painting also is for sale. I suggest that this is a national effort. It has some historical and scientific value. As the Prime Minister has told us that the 'Blue Poles' painting that has been bought by the Australian Government has now increased in value because of the controversy surrounding it and the time lapse, I suggest that this painting and these rafts also could increase in value because of their historical value. 
I suggest that the Government might well watch the progress of this expedition, and that the Government and the Parliament could send a message of congratulations to the men on the rafts when they land on the beautiful Sunshine Coast in my electorate. I think that the Government could well consider the historical and scientific aspects of this experiment and the question whether the 3 rafts should be preserved for Australia. I hope that the Prime Minister is listening, because I told him that I wanted to raise this matter this evening. I think that it is an important matter. I think that it is something that is very significant in Australian history. I hope that the Government will consider what I have said tonight. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. When will he show me, as promised, the letters of protest against the national health scheme from Gympie about which he made serious allegations and which he has since repeated to me in a letter? Does he, by dismissing these letters and protests, indicate that he thinks that Australians and Gympie citizens are so stupid that they will sign and send letters of protest to their member unless those letters are an expression of their intent and feeling? When he says he is sending literature to each such correspondent in my electorate, does he mean the pamphlet 'The Australian Health Insurance Program - The Plain Facts' or some equally discredited document? Should he not make a contribution towards reducing government expenditure and controlling inflation by saving this pointless postage? 
It is not surprising that the Australian Country Party has some interest and expertise in tourism because in the Queensland Parliament the tourist electorates are represented almost exclusively, ably and adequately, by Country Party members. In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Tourism and Recreation I am pleased to see that some increases have been made. I agree with the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  that they are unfortunately small. In regard to the availability of money for the development of tourist attractions, I agree with a statement by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  that Australia's tourist attractions are part of our national heritage and must be developed and preserved. I welcome his announcement about the surveys of regional tourist areas to determine broad development needs because in my own electorate are situated many of Australia's finest tourist areas. 
In the brief time available to me I wish to be constructive and I would like to pass on to the Minister some informed observations made to me during many discussions I have had with people involved in the tourist industry. I know that grants are vitally necessary. Grants are needed, but not merely as industry handouts because generally the tourist industry is - I have had this impressed upon me - a quite viable industry. Where money must be made available and attention given is in assisting the overall climate within which the tourist industry can expand. The tourist industry has within it the highest concentration of small to medium businesses of any industry except farming. 
There are some very major problems with which the tourist industry is faced and on which I would like to speak at some length but which I can only enumerate one by one. I think the Minister may be aware of most of them. One problem, of course, is the competition from overseas resorts, cruises and the like, and the provision by our competitors overseas of concessional air fares and other inducements. That is probably a serious problem in Australia because of our greater remoteness from potential sources of tourism than many other countries of the world. There has been over the years - I do not blame the Minister or the Government for this - a lack of incentive for capital investment in Australia, as compared with our neighbours such as New Zealand, Fiji and Indonesia. In fact, Australian investors could gain greater advantages and greater returns in past years by investing in the Fiji industry rather than in the Australian industry. That is one problem at which we should look. Another problem is, of course, the rapidly increasing cost structure without the compensating increase in volume. This has been aggravated by inflation and, to a degree, the currency revaluation. 
Another problem the industry faces is a lack of co-ordination - I think that this problem is being overcome - between, for instance, the Federal and State governments, between governments and local authorities and regional organisations and between governments and the carriers and operators of the industry. There has been a somewhat poor communication within the industry itself. From where can the industry receive positive assistance to obviate some of these problems and foster growth? The tourist industry is a potentially great industry. It is a great industry now. It will become greater in the future. Unfortunately, contained in the Budget were some proposals which have adversely affected the tourist industry. They include the increase in navigation charges, landing fees and fuel tax. These increases will result in a consequent increase in air fares, which are a problem now as they are somewhat uncompetitive. 
I feel that we should give consideration to making available special fares and travel' concessions as well as such things as return concessions, youth fares, tour basing fares and the encouragement of off-peak utilisation. Those are areas to which I think we should pay special attention and give special consideration. It is true to say that we have a good 2-airline system in Australia which caters quite well for our general business travel. But I wonder whether we have paid enough attention to tourism and made any major effort to attract tourist traffic to any real extent, which could perhaps remove the need for the closure of some of our inland airlines. Another matter at which I think we should look is in the area of accommodation. It is here that the industry has to compete. It is here that we must have accommodation of international excellence and standards available at reasonable tariffs. 
I can suggest areas at which the Government could look and in which it could provide some help and consideration. One would be the provision of depreciation allowances and sales tax concessions in various areas. Perhaps some attention can be paid to anomalies such as the radio and television licensing system. I believe that the full licence fee has to be paid at present for each set in each unit. I believe that we should consider granting concessions in respect of telephone and telex charges. We must look at remote area concessions. They are very important because our great and vast centre is a magnificent tourist attraction, although as yet it is very largely unappreciated We should look to providing assistance in the promotion of travel. Perhaps we should look at .the provision of assistance in the formation and encouragement of regional organisations. Possibly the Minister is giving this matter some attention. I think we should consider granting special tax concessions to assist and encourage promotion. The Minister is undertaking regional surveys. I welcome the announcements he has made in this respect. Perhaps consideration could be given to things such as postal concessions for the distribution of tourist material. They are just suggestions at which we should perhaps look if we are interested in assisting the industry to overcome some of its problems. 
I believe the tourist industry has not yet received proper recognition as an important entity. Perhaps a lot more statistical data can be recorded and made available. It is possibly not generally realised, although I feel that the Minister is probably quite aware of it, that a considerable tax revenue is generated directly and indirectly by the tourist industry. The industry provides a number of social benefits. It provides appreciable employment. It greatly assists in decentralisation. It has considerable educational value. Also it has the added advantage, of course, of providing facilities for rest and recuperation. 
I conclude by pointing out that the balance between expenditure abroad by Australian tourists and expenditure in Australia by overseas tourists is becoming increasingly unfavourable. Thus I do not think we should concentrate solely on the importance of visitors from overseas, although I welcome the fact that Australia is becoming a very important convention centre. I thing visitors from overseas are important. Somebody told me that they provide only about 10 per cent of the turnover of the Australian tourist industry. I do not know whether that is correct. At any rate, the percentage is quite minor. I think that much greater emphasis must be placed upon persuading Australians to travel within their own country. In putting forward these observations - they have not been put forward in a critical manner - I have tried to be constructive. These observations have been passed on to me by people who have played a great part in the development of the tourist industry in my area. They are interesting observations. I think they are pertinent observations. I thought that they might be of some interest to the Ministers. I, too, join in congratulating the Minister for his energy and devotion to a new portfolio which I welcome in the Parliament of Australia. 
The Australian Country Party fully endorses the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  We agree with his analysis and support the amendment. This Bill con- tains a number of major proposals, almost all of which my Party and I view with the greatest of disfavour and as completely reprehensible. It is just not possible in the short 20 minutes available to me to deal with them all. For example, the withdrawal of exemptions for goldmining - although I believe we may have some surprises here; the very major reductions in the concessions allowed to life insurance companies for calculated liabilities which, in rum, will affect millions of Australians through bonus reductions and probably increased premiums on new policies; the withdrawal of concessions for expenditure in the development of export markets; the change in valuation of stocks of wine-makers; the taxation of certain pensions; the removal of the age allowance; and the inadequacy of the small increase in company retention .allowance in view of the direct increase in private company tax, are all important matters on which I would take strong issue with the Treasurer  (Mr Crean). 
Honourable members simply do not have time to discuss all these matters and as the Country Party can expect to have so few speakers on this Bill we must limit our remarks to just a few of the propositions. 
I shall be speaking predominantly to those proposals which are contained in clauses 12 and 13 of the Bill which provide for accelerated depreciation allowances to be removed from primary producers; to clauses 14 and 15 which provide for the investment allowance to be terminated; and to clauses 17 to 19 which propose that immediate deductions for capital expenditure on land used for primary production shall no longer be allowed. In the Budget Speech, and in so many speeches by Government supporters since, the Government has spoken scathingly and in a quite uninformed fashion about the privileges of country people. But country electors spoke very loudly and clearly in their ballot in the New South Wales State election. If this type of legislation continues to be introduced they will censure the Government again at ever)' ballot for what even the urban-orientated national Press has referred to as the Government's 'severe anti-rural bias'. The Government will probably, by a number of manoeuvres, seek to minimise the effect of this country vote. But the wrath of the country people is being made manifest and will be made manifest. I think that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  with his electoral maps and red pencils might do well to ponder this point. 
I want to speak particularly about the accelerated depreciation of primary production plant and structural improvements. This concession is to be removed. The purpose of this provision was to allow as a deduction over 5 years at 20 per cent a year depreciation of plant and machinery used in primary production. These privileges were included in section 57aa and 57ab of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Section 57ab refers to the Northern Territory and it has been interesting to listen to speakers from the Government side of the House during the last couple of nights speaking about the rights of the people of the Northern Territory. This is one right that the Government proposes taking away. I contend that the Treasurer's statement that this provision should be removed and the depreciation allowance related to the actual life usage of the implement or plant is not justified. In my quite extensive experience in primary production and as an accountant and tax agent, I have found that the existing rates of depreciation are quite realistic and are related to the usage of plant in particular. They are not in any way inconsistent with the effective and best life of that plant. It is more realistic than the proposal to write the plant off over 10 years. In fact efficiency in primary production, as an industry, is very dependent on adequate and reliable plant. The insertion of the existing sections was a recognition of this factor. It was also a recognition of the very appositefact that some consideration had to be given to obtain this provision because unlike industry and business where fluctuations are more predictable and usually of not such great magnitude, where they are not assailed by seasons, pests and so many unpredictables and where they do not have to face the fact that one good season is often followed by a multitude of adverse seasons, we should realise that the primary producer is in a different position. The provision of these sections made it possible for primary producers in a good season to be encouraged - not privileged as Government supporters aver - and enabled to replace at reasonable intervals plant which had outlived its effectiveness and efficiency or had been superseded by more efficient and economical equipment. 
Or to boost productivity, as the honourable member for Calare reminds me. I stress, not for the information of primary producers who know it well but for members opposite who in the main do not know and understand primary industry, that probably no other industry sees its plant become obsolete more quickly than does primary production. When one considers the rising costs of production, the impossibility of obtaining even unskilled labour, the frightening costs of parts and repairs, the need to diversify or to alter crops according to market requirements, the primary producer who has to battle on with his worn out tractor and obsolete plant has little prospect of success. He is hamstrung and unable to alter his crop program -unable to diversify. Yet irresponsible voices from the Government benches call him 'privileged'. 
Sections 57aa and 57ab do not confer any privilege; they are vitally necessary because of the vicissitudes of primary production. I have tried briefly to sketch the situation in the few minutes I have in which to speak. The Government does not seem to understand or will not understand. The removal of these sections of the Act will be disastrous and unwarranted. It is a blatant attempt by these people who talk of a 35-hour week - which at the right and proper time I do not condemn - to reimpose on the primary producer long hours and the necessity for slave labour where the whole family has to return to an unprivileged status of yesteryear. Why? The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  summed it up at another time when he indicated that these people probably support the Country Party and therefore by inference should be denied consideration. 
I turn now to the investment allowance. The investment allowance for primary production in particular was introduced to maintain and increase production. Surely production is necessary particularly when sales commitments are being made by a Minister when there is a doubt of our ability to supply. The need for adequate and efficient machinery in obtaining top production was the reason for the introduction of this provision in the Income Tax Assessment Act. It provided that where new machinery was purchased an investment allowance of 20 per cent could be written off against that machinery. Its elimination at this time is senseless, untimely and shows a complete lack of comprehension. Farmers are expected to persevere with second hand or outdated machinery and, as far as this Government is concerned, future production does not seem to matter at all. 
I turn to sections 75 and 76 of the Act. These are important sections and they are to be deleted. Those sections allow for immediate deductions for the cost of certain capital expenditure on equipment used for primary production. The removal of them from the Act is inexcusable and unacceptable. The reason for the elimination of those sections, according to the Treasurer and the Government, is the allegation that this benefit was predominantly being enjoyed by Pitt Street farmers. This just cannot be substantiated. There are far better ways of dealing with Pitt Street farmers than to remove such deductions from bona fide primary producers. 
An examination of the expenditure covered by item 75 is interesting as it illustrates what I am trying to say. Let us look at what it says. Some of the expenditure was on the eradication or extermination of animal or vegetable pests from the land. Surely that is for the good of our nation and country. Another was for the destruction of weed or plant growth detrimental to the land. Of course that is necessary and desirable. Surely the Minister for Conservation should be on his feet supporting us on matters like this. Another thing was the draining of swamp or low lying lands where that operation improves the agricultural or grazing value of the land. Where it allows us to bring into production land that could not be used before, surely that is important. The section refers to preventing or combating soil erosion on the land otherwise than by the erection of fences. That is an expensive and necessary process. Has any urban based Government supporter ever seen the ravages of soil erosion and land going out of production to be lost forever, irretrievably? If not, let them talk to my friend the honourable member for Darling Downs about it and he will tell them something about this problem. We have to conserve our valuable land for production now and for the future. This positive step, which was a necessary assistance, is being removed and we have a Minister for Conservation on the other side of the House who does not seem at all concerned about it. Subsections  (ti)  to &lt;k) of the same section of the Act are very important. They deal with things like water conservation, irrigation, levee banks and the like. In this country where water con servation is so fundamentally vital, and indeed the Minister for Northern Development on more than one occasion has spoken of the importance of Government water resources programs, it is inconceivable and totally inconsistent that an unrealistic attitude is taken by the Government in removing these concessions from the Act. It is undeniable that this provision has been absolutely vital in a country where rainfall is irregular and unreliable, where water must be conserved and where irrigation, in many areas, is vitally necessary and is an expensive operation. It allows us to run stock where we could not run stock otherwise. It allows us to grow crops on land that would otherwise be unproductive. In my extensive experience in a rural area and in a public accountancy practice I have seen this section used almost exclusively by bona fide, full time, primary producers struggling to grow crops. The deletion of this provision will effectively hamstring these people in performing measures that are so essential. 
The section deals with fodder conservation. There was an allowance for the immediate writing off of the cost of structures built for the conservation of fodder and grain. Fodder conservation comes into the same category as the water conservation of which I have spoken. In this country we strike very unreliable seasons. Many areas have a predominantly low rainfall. We get a bountiful season now and again and a multitude of droughts. Fodder conservation is something that is expensive and must be provided by the primary producer, but that provision is being removed, callously and senselessly. Only time prevents me from elaborating on the absolute folly of this action. 
How, in such a short time, can I sufficiently emphasise the decision relating to valuation of wine and brandy stocks, which is a disastrous decision? It is not overstating the position to say that it will almost certainly threaten some manufacturers, particularly some family companies that are hit by other sections of this Budget, with hardship and even threaten bankruptcy. The Government has estimated that this will produce something like $15m. The wine producers have challenged the Government to prove that figure. They would be happy if the Government would guarantee that it would set a valuation at a level that would not bring in more than $15m. The wine producers say that it will be nearer twice that amount. I say that this valuation of wine stocks is something that is totally unfair. It means that no longer will the manufacturer be able to defer his tax until the commodity is sold and the profit made. I thought that that was a quite reasonable proposition. 
Of course it is the usual proposition, as the honourable member for Angas says. This consideration does not seem to enter the minds of members of the Government who seem to have a quest for revenue, and the way they get it or the discriminatory practices they use do not seem to matter. Where is it coming from? The primary production sector, and from the pensioners. So much for the promise that tax would not be increased. Removal of these deductions and concessions and the imposition of new stock valuation as well as the imposition of tax on pensions and the removal of the age allowance is specifically increasing taxation. To say otherwise is indefensible and thoroughly dishonest. It is discriminatory and motivated by political expediency. That is another promise that has now been dishonoured. My time could be completely occupied tonight in raising protests on behalf of the pensioners and the old people of Australia - to what effect? The Government in this House by the ruthless use of its numbers listens not to reason and indeed it is becoming somewhat unusual for Opposition members to be able to speak at all because of the gag and the guillotine. 
Private companies have been savagely treated. Not only has there been a rise in private company tax but also there has been the new provision of quarterly tax assessments in advance of the usual time for payment. And the totally insufficient palliative of a minor adjustment to the retention allowances still impose upon private companies particular disabilities not applicable to public companies. This retention allowance leaves no room at all for provision for capital development and expansion. It provides no adequate buffer for adversity. It is not the first time in this House that I have appealed to the Treasurer to consider this matter. He seeks to equate the rate of tax on public and private companies but retains this imposition of the retention allowance for private companies that is unjustified. To excuse this on the basis that most public companies pay out in divi dends at least 50 per cent of their tax after tax profits is not realistic. They may do that on occasions, but there is no mandatory requirement on them to do it. But if a private company wishes to provide for expansion and development it is penalised by paying penalty tax on undistributed profits. These taxation Bills are direct indictments of a dishonest government which promised no taxation increases and which has now compounded previous taxation increases by way of direct increases in fuel tax and Post Office charges which are considerable and savagely anticountry. 
This is a Government which insists that primary producers are enjoying great prosperity. Let us analyse that statement. This Government does not consider the problems of the past and the probability that not so bountiful seasons might lie ahead. It wants to tax the primary producers in order to finance its inflationary programs. This year, the first in many years, when primary producers had an opportunity to update their machinery, to replace their plant, to undertake necessary fodder, water conservation and irrigation projects, to eradicate pests and to carry out clearing in order to bring land into production, the tax deductions are taken away and the money is appropriated for revenue. The Country Party opposes this anti-country attitude. Therefore, we support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. We agree with his analysis and we endorse his remarks. 
I do not intend to waste a lot of time on the academic member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  but he did say something about chickens coming home to roost and I am reminded of something he said at a conference in the Subiaco City Hall in Perth in July last year. He said: 
The Minister for Primary Industry is currently in Canberra setting out the case for the retention of the existing assistance for agriculture. 
Of the 3 groups involved in making decisions in a Labor Government it is the Caucus committee which provides the most direct contact for industry. In many areas of policy formation the Caucus committee precedes the Cabinet or Caucus itself. The committee works closely with, the Minister and receives advice from the appropriate department. 
He spoke a lot of other platitudes too. He talked about machinery price reductions as a result of the tariff reduction. He has been challenged time and time again to name one such price reduction but as yet he has not done so. He is still skating around the issue of the superphosphate bounty and calling out to various colleagues of mine: 'Where do you stand?' but not saying where he stands. He is uttering platitudes all around the place. His rural electorate would love to know where he stands and I hope he will put his vote where his mouth is. 
I want briefly to refer to a number of matters contained in  Her  Majesty's address. It was an address delivered with regal dignity and grace but, of course, the content of that address was something in which  Her  Majesty had no choice; it was dictated by the Government. Firstly I mention the reference to the electoral proposals of this Government. I want to expose some statements that are just not true - distorted statements that Ministers have made, including statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this House in a debate that was not a debate because the guillotine came down on the first day the session resumed. I refer to nonsensical distorted statements that he made to the national media in relation to some referendums that he proposes to hold. He could not resist the opportunity to attack the Queensland Government and its very fine Premier who so often, to the Prime Minister's acute embarrassment, has exposed the motives of this Federal Government to destroy State governments, to usurp their rights and to centralise all control in Canberra. Again, as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  and the honourable members for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  and Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  so love to do, he mouthed and parroted a lot of irrelevant figures totally out of context, to wrongly and deliberately disguise the fact that the Country and Liberal Parties in Queensland are babes in the wood compared to the electoral machinations which maintained a minority government in Queensland under the Labor flag for about a quarter of a century. I refer honourable members to a speech they have not mentioned since it was made - a speech I made here on 4 April 1973. I was gagged during the second reading stage of that particular debate but I did get in a few words during the Committee stage. 
I want to examine the Labor Party although not on its present utterances because it has been discredited time and time again on this basis. I will examine it on its own record. I will test its sincerity. We will use the very State which the Prime Minister chose and we will meet, fight and defeat him on his own chosen ground. He talks of democracy and of one vote one value. I remind him that that is not consistent with the record of the Labor Party in Queensland, the State that he chose. I want to show him what was the Labor attitude in that State to the question of one vote one value when it had every opportunity over a period of 25 years to bring in the system that he thinks was fair and right. I refer him to the 1956 State elections. 
Twenty-five years is a long time and there were a lot of Premiers. I am referring to Labor redistributions. 1 have the official figures of the Queensland Stat: general elections held in 1956. I have .a table showing the enrolments of each electorate in Queensland at that time. I was given permission to include these figures in Hansard and they appear at page 1073 of Hansard of 4 April 1973. 1 remind the House that there were about 9 seats called the shearers' seats or the western seats with enrolments cf about 4,000 to 5,000 voters. These were interesting seats, mostly won by Labor, and the Labor Party wanted to make as many out of them :is it could. I can remember how the main roads gangs and railway gangs were moved about at election time just to make sure that the seats went as Labor wanted them to go. Over the years the Country Party in Queensland has done something to ensure that that situation cannot continue. Nine seats held by Labor had enrolments of from 4,000 to 5,000 or thereabouts. I remind the House that in Brisbane where the Liberal Party held a number of seats there was an interesting situation. Mount Gravatt had an enrolment of 26,307, Kedron 19,675 and Chermside 17,708. What is all this rubbish about one vote one value? The Labor Party has been discredited in Queensland so it ill behoves the Labor Party to talk about gerrymandering. If ever there was a mockery of democracy we have seen it in Queensland and that is why the Labor Party is rejected in Queensland and why the people of Queensland will throw out this referendum proposal without a second thought. 
The Government talks about minority governments. In 1947 in Queensland Labor polled slightly less than 43 per cent of the total vote but won 35 seats. In the same year the United Australia Party-Country Party polled 44.26 per cent of the votes yet won only 23 seats  -  2 per cent more than Labor polled but 12 fewer seats. That is the sort of distribution that the Labor Party wishes to inflict not only on Queensland but also throughout Australia. In 1950 Labor won 46.3 per cent of the votes and 42 seats, the Liberal-Country Party 48 per cent or 2 per cent more than Labor but 31 seats  -  11 seats fewer than the Labor Party. For 25 years the people of Queensland had to put up with that sort of situation, but the Labor Party had an inbuilt power to destroy itself and the day came when Queensland was saved. Queensland knows the sincerity of the Labor Party that now goes to it saying: *We will give you democracy. We will fix the electorate so that you get one vote one value.' That is a lot of rubbish. The Labor Party is discredited by its own record. Its members are the masters of gerrymander. 
The Labor Party Government accuses the Queensland Government of being a minority government. It talks about the Country Party gaining 19 per cent or a little more than that of the total vote. In the light of what we have seen I do not know how the Prime Minister or any member opposite can afford to throw stones. Of course what they do not say is that that was the percentage of the total votes cast in all Queensland. The argument is not valid. The percentage is not relevant unless it is related to the number of seats contested by the Country Party. The Country Party contests only a few seats. A very different result would be obtained if the Country Party vote were quoted as a percentage of votes obtained in electorates where it fields candidates and then compared with the percentage that the Labor Party gains in seats where it fields candidates. The Labor Party still could not get a majority in Queensland. We must consider the combined vote of the Country Party and its colleague, the Liberal Party, to get some assessment. 
The Democratic Labor Party has no time for the Labor Party either. Has any Labor member ever been fair enough, in this House or anywhere else, to give that true and complete picture of the situation? Members of the Labor Party pluck figures out of the air, distort them, throw them around and level personal abuse at one Premier in Australia who has stood up to this Government and said: 'We will not take this'. They denigrate a popular government. Theirs is the Government that is so callous about rural people that it would deny them any representation at all if it could. Queensland will show the Prime Minister what it thinks of this Government and its proposals when he puts these referenda, if he dares. 
I turn to another matter, and that is the disastrous floods in Queensland. I endorse the very appropriate and pertinent remarks made by my colleague the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in an adjournment debate speech last week, and for the only time in my life I think there are just a few remarks of the honourable member for Lilley with which I can agree. The honourable member for Lilley spoke of the disaster, the losses and the spirit of the people of Queensland. I agree with that, but on that point only do I agree. I deplore with utter disgust the rest of his speech, which was a blatantly political attack on the Premier of Queensland. It will be condemned by Queenslanders, whatever their political allegiance happens to be. I do regard his remarks as being worthy of further discussion, because he did just what he accused everybody else of doing. He tried to make political capital out of a frightful disaster. 
I want to tell honourable members about some of the things that happened in my electorate. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  can tell something of what happened in the vast areas of Queensland which we saw at first hand. In my electorate, which is predominantly a rural electorate, we know what happened to local authorities. We know the job that confronts them. Roads, bridges and drainage have been absolutely destroyed. A colossal cost confronts local authorities in their reconstruction. I want to tell of some of the people in the rural sections of my electorate. I saw rivers scoured out and I saw topsoil scoured away. I saw land that will never be brought into production again and craters up to 8 feet deep that had just been scoured out by the waters. I saw homes, in the country as well as in the city, inundated by the waters. I saw personal possessions absolutely lost. 
But I saw more than this. I saw crops, the whole season's crops, completely gone. I saw areas of 50 and 100 acres that were inundated by 8 to 10 feet of sand that had been brought there by the waters. The men in those areas have to get rid of that sand in order to get down to their pastures and try to cultivate the ground again. I saw crops lost and I saw men getting their tractors out of the water, drying them out, starting them up and going to plough in the stubble, to try again. I saw this wonderful spirit. I talked to many of them and they said: 'We are not too badly off. We cannot complain, really. Look at the poor people down in Brisbane. Look at my neighbour down there.' This is the wonderful spirit of country Queensland, and I am proud to represent people such as them. These are people who could not obtain any social service benefits. They could not obtain any unemployment benefit because they lost last year's income. It was there in the ground - in the preparation of the ground, in the seed, in getting the crops to grow. It was gone. There was no income for next year because there was no crop. They received no social service benefit; they received no grant. I have made representations to both the Queensland Government and the Federal Government, and I hope that finance will be made available for these people, many of whom are already burdened down with mortgages. I hope that there will be at least long term, low interest finance. I hope that the Government comes up with it now and I hope that the interest payments will be delayed to give these men a chance to get on their feet again. 
I saw, too, where miles of fencing had been lost altogether. The worst part of it is that one cannot get a fence post or a piece of wire to put it up again. I have tried to help these people get these things. These are the sorts of things I have seen in Queensland and these are the things that I have brought to the attention of the Government. I have only a few minutes in which to talk tonight. If I had more time I could amplify these things. We are grateful for all that both State and Federal Governments have done to this stage. We do not condemn and criticise all the time. We are grateful for what has been done. But we want to bring the position of these rural people to the notice of this Government without for one moment denying the tragedy of Brisbane and Ipswich. It was a disaster and it was a tragedy, and every penny that was given to the people in those cities was well worth while. We wish it was much more. But this happened to all of Queensland, and I want this Parliament and this country to know it. 
I want to make reference to one other matter that has caused considerable alarm and concern in my electorate. I do not condemn the Lord Mayor of Brisbane altogether. He came home when the Prime Minister did not, and he launched an appeal. I know that his whole interest was in the mitigation of the desperate plight of his city. But I take the Lord Mayor of Brisbane to task for taking what I regard as an irresponsible and calculated risk with the lives and property of people in Brisbane and in my electorate. The Somerset Dam is in my electorate near a town called Kilcoy. As the waters were going down in Brisbane that dam was very full. The water from that dam takes some time to get down to Brisbane. Every engineer told the Lord Mayor that the gates of that dam had to be opened and some of the water had to be let go because the dam would hold no more water. I know that the Lord Mayor was concerned about the water in Brisbane but he decided that the gates should not be opened. If there had been another cloud burst that night or that week in the catchment area of the dam - it was on the cards that there would be, and I am very thankful that there was not - there would have been a disaster. It was a risk which the Lord Mayor ought not to have taken. If there had been rain that night or that week there would have been a disaster, the like of which one could not picture, not only in Brisbane but also in the town of Kilcoy. 
Kilcoy was cut off, with flooded creeks on both sides. Some of the creeks were up to a mile wide. The people of Kilcoy were isolated for 9 days because the dam was not opened and the water could not get away. Engineers have told me that this was a calculated risk which ought never to have been taken. They advised the Lord Mayor not to take the risk, but he decided to do so. I want to be fair, but I say that this was an irresponsible act and that the people in my electorate also ought to have been considered. The Kilcoy community was very frightened and concerned because if that dam wall could not have held the water or if more water had come over that wall, Kilcoy, many of the surrounding areas and very much of Brisbane could have been wiped out. As a result of the water being held in the dam the roads in the Kilcoy area were submerged for a very long period - nine or ten days; longer than they would otherwise have been submerged. Because of this the foundations gave way. The roads were damaged to a much greater extent than they would have been if the water had been allowed to get away. The Kilcoy Shire Council will have to bear tremendous costs as a result of that action. It will have to make the repairs. I think that the Lord Mayor's action should be inquired into because statements of responsible men have been levelled at him and I think that the position ought to be clarified. 
I would like to talk on many other matters, but I do want to say that the people of Queensland are sick and tired of a government which is trying to take away their rights and which loses no opportunity to denigrate their Premier and their Government and to impose a system that is not democratic but is the very antithesis of democracy. When these referenda proposals of which we have heard come before the people of Queensland, the answer will be so clear and definite that if there is any lingering doubt in the minds of the Government now there certainly will not be then. 
I preface my question to the Treasurer by reminding him that in the Budget the provisions and benefits of sections 75 and 76 of the Income Tax Act were removed. Because of the disastrous losses by flood and cyclone in rural Queensland in particular, where hundreds of miles of fencing and other capital improvements have been completely destroyed - improvements of the type previously covered by these sections of the Act - will the Treasurer assist rural producers who have suffered such losses and face such huge costs of restoration by considering the restoration at least temporarily of the provisions of these sections of the Act? Is he aware that these people are not eligible for any grants or social security payments to help them in their losses? Therefore will he assist by considering the restoration of sections 75 and 76 of the Act to help them restore the properties which are so disastrously affected? 
Because of the limitations necessarily on the adjournment debate I shall be brief. I do not, and I hope I will not, use this House as a forum to attack any person unable to answer or to defend himself in this House, except under extreme and unavoidable circumstances and emergencies. In this I hope I differ from some honourable members on the Government benches who continually and inaccurately and irresponsibly seize every opportunity 10 attack the Queensland Premier with accusations which are so wide of the mark that if they were made outside the House and not under privilege the honourable members concerned would be in very serious difficulty. 
The purpose of my rising tonight is both serious and urgent. It is further to a matter I raised only a week or so ago in the AddressinReply debate. Honourable members will remember that I commended at that time the I-ord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Jones, on bis concern and on his actions in the interests of Brisbane during the recent flood disasters. 
But I was very disturbed at and critical of the action he took against the advice of all of his engineers in refusing to open the flood gates of Somerset Dam, the water level of which was dangerously high. I said that his action at that time, according to his professional engineers who expressed opinions in the media, placed Brisbane and a large area of my electorate at a tremendous and an unpardonable risk. 
I am thankful that his gamble succeeded. I am thankful that no more rain fell at that time. I tried to point out in this House the consequence and cost of that action to the roads and drainage of Kilcoy Shire, the tremendous and natural concern of the people of Kilcoy and surrounding areas, and the possibility of a huge magnification of the disaster if that gamble - it was a gamble - had not paid off. I rise again tonight because of an article in yesterday's 'Courier Mail'. It is headed 'Dam level gets blame for flood' and reads: 
Angry Kilcoy residents want the State Government to force the Brisbane City Council to lower the water level of Somerset Dam. 
They claim the present level is causing floods never before experienced. 
A deputation of townspeople is to meet the Premier  (Mr Bjelke-Petersen)  in Brisbane today. 
The Kilcoy Anglican Minister the Rev. H. Dineen said the council had been approached but its response had been "negative". 
He said the level of the dam was raised about two years ago and was now 'much too high'. "One house, which has been there ever since the dam was built, had  2i  metres of water through it during the Australia Day floods", he said. 

 Mr Dineen said townspeople could cope with flooded creeks but not with water backing up from Somerset Dam. 
That was followed by another article in today's 'Courier Mail' in which it stated that these concerned people went to the Premier. The article states: 
A deputation from Kilcoy asked the Premier yesterday to withdraw control of Somerset Dam from the Brisbane City Council. 
The deputation wanted control by another authority, such as the State Coordinator-General, who once controlled it. 
I have not time to read all of the article. I rang the shire immediately I read the first article and I learned that the level in the Somerset Dam was considerably higher at that date than it should have been - I believe at least 2 feet higher. When one considers the area of the dam, that is a lot of water. Last week there was a good deal less rain but there was no storage capacity to take the additional water. Again creeks banked up and shire roads were inundated for three or four days under three to four feet of water. The D'Aguilar Highway which was badly damaged, still under repair, still chopped up because of its previous submersion, was submerged again. I know the state of . that road because I travel it regularly. The submersion is prolonged and the damage is magnified because the level of the dam is not reduced and because creeks bank up above the dam. 
The purpose of my speaking tonight is to assist the people of the Kilcoy area and that shire in their appeal to anybody who will help and to Brisbane's Lord Mayor to consider their safety and their welfare and to open, certainly under control, the flood gates to get the water level down. It has been predicted, and it is very likely, that cyclonic or heavy rain could fall again at any time. It is far too late to prepare for that event when rain starts to fall. That dam can be and is used for flood mitigation for Brisbane. If it had not been for that dam the last disaster would have been infinitely worse. Another dam in a neighbouring part of my electorate at Wyven.hoe which will inundate some of the best cattle country one can find anywhere, is also to be constructed, again largely for flood mitigation purposes, and to supply water for and to protect Brisbane. 
Because these dams supply water to Brisbane and because they are for flood mitigation for Brisbane, it is no wonder that my people are disturbed, alarmed and incensed at the manner in which their welfare has been disregarded and their property damaged and put at risk. I hope that the Lord Mayor of Brisbane will spare the people some thought and some consideration and that he will provide a greater safety margin for his own city of Brisbane by lowering the level in the dam. I do not want to be in the position of being able to say: 'I told you so.' I do not want to have to criticise and condemn if he does not hear this plea and if another fall of rain brings disaster which could have been minimised. I voice here in this House Kilcoy's concern and alarm, and I appeal as strongly as I can in this House and in any other forum that is available to me that now - not later when it is too late - he will take the action that he ought to take for the sake of Brisbane and for the sake of my people in Kilcoy and surrounding district. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, as my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  has already indicated the Opposition is not opposing these Bills. It is not my intention to delay the House unduly by speaking at any length or covering at length the ground that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has covered. With respect to those sections which relate to amendments that are designed to correct an apparent deficiency in the interest withholding tax provision, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has pointed out that a number of companies have borrowed overseas on behalf of companies not owned and operated to the extent specified by law for those companies to be regarded as Australian owned and controlled. The Treasurer has described the loss to the revenue as considerable. It seems to me that this Bill does aim to deal with the situation of revenue loss. I think this Bill is a genuine attempt to achieve a situation in which enterprises that are not defined as Australian owned and controlled shall bear Australian tax. The Opposition offers no opposition to these provisions. We give our concurrence to the proposal, despite the remarks made by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  concerning previous Liberal-Country Party governments, with which I do not concur. 
The Opposition does concur with a number of other provisions contained in the Bill. Those provisions seek to implement the recommendations of the Woodward Committee. Specifically, the re-engagement bounty payable to a member of the defence forces is to be exempted from taxation. The Opposition has no quarrel with this. We agree that this treatment of allowances seems also to be acceptable and reasonable and enables allowances to be treated for income tax purposes in the ways envisaged by the Woodward Committee. The provision relating to payments to certain superannuation funds is of course a technical and necessary amendment. The original fund, as I understand it, into which these payments were made has disappeared and payments are now made directly to Consolidated Revenue. The amendment was necessary to reserve this deductibility. The Opposition has no quarrel with that provision. 
The other provision of the Bill deals with the further and final phasing in of the payments of quarterly instalments of tax by companies in 2 or more stages. This provision was announced in the last Budget and, subsequently legislation provided the first phase involving a payment of an instalment in January 1974. I am sorry that the Treasurer is not present in the House because he might remember that at that time I expressed some points of view in a speech in this House regarding the effect on private companies of changes contained in that Budget. I will relate what I said then to this Bill. I spoke then on the rather harsh provision of equating private and public company tax while retaining for private companies the penalty of the need for a sufficient distribution and an undistributed profits tax. I know that this matter was brought to the attention of the Treasurer from other quarters. I hope it is receiving consideration. This is relevant because it has meant compulsory distribution of profits that limited, as I said, the opportunity for capital expansion and also the provision of adequate liquid funds. The follow-on is that the plan to implement quarterly instalment taxation payments does warrant further examination in view of a number of serious complications not unrelated to the comment I have just made. It does impose a very big hardship on companies which have suffered reverses by way of significant profitability decreases. 
As the quarterly instalments are calculated on the previous full taxation year, such a situation - many companies are in this category due to a number of economic factors - is very real. Serious liquidity problems arise as the quarterly assessments are excessive because in a year of lesser profit they are related to a previous period of greater profit. It is true that there is some provision for application for variation somewhat similar to the provision for variation of provisional taxation levied on individuals, but as one who has had some considerable accountancy experience I stress that this is not quite as sympathetic as it may appear. It can and does involve additional accountancy, more frequent balancing and considerable attention to forward predictions of trading results which must necessarily be responsible. I know that for individuals a penalty is imposed for irresponsible selfassessment which must be within certain limits. These are difficult problems. They involve extra accounting and budgetary work and possibly considerable additional accountancy charges or expenditure, or additional staff, perhaps on penalty rates - and all of this in a year of decreased profitability. 
Whichever course is chosen it does pose some difficulty. The choice may well be liquidity problems if the quarterly instalments are met or additional costs - completely unproductive - to obtain a variation. In our present climate I think this is significant, particularly at this time when interest rates are so astronomical, credit is so severely restricted and a number of companies will have extreme difficulty because of the implementation of the extra taxation instalments. We do not criticise the principle of these instalments being introduced. What we are saying is that the timing is most unfortunate. The tightness of the monetary programs, tight liquidity and the intense credit squeeze seem to me to be factors which make this a most unfortunate time for the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to implement these next 2 progressive phases of quarterly payments. From my own observations, experience and many discussions, this is not a red herring. It is a matter of real concern. It is reality. I do not want to thump a political drum but it is well realised that considerable and frequent increases in award wages and salaries - a cost which is very often a considerable percentage of total cost to the company - the considerable and frequent price increases in materials and supplies, the extra cost of extensions to holiday pay and long service leave and loadings, combined with the direct increase in private company taxation in the last Budget - there was a direct increase - and the announced further increase in private company tax this year to equate it with public company taxation, are not immediately or completely recoverable in income earned. There is either a permanent drop in net income, that is if the economies of larger scale production are not immediately possible, or liquidity difficulties. 
In a time of what we can call a credit squeeze - whatever the Treasurer does call it - this can seriously jeopardise the capacity of some companies and individual businessmen to carry on in business. This is a real problem. I have found this in my own practical experience. I have spoken to a lot more people perhaps than the Minister may realise. But this is fact and it is something about which I am concerned. For example, I know of co-operatives which are experiencing severe liquidity problems. They are in the position of having to appeal for loans at 12 per cent for 3 months to assist them. This additional tax obligation which the co-operatives have not budgeted for is particularly serious at this time. It should be remembered that they provide significant employment and they are faced with the possibility of having to reduce their labour force. 
I have dealt with this provision in the Bills at some length. I want the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Stewart),  and the Treasurer to be fully aware of the situation and the practical result of the implementation of this provision in the present climate. The fact is that there must necessarily be a recognition that consideration and leniency willbe essential if this part of the legislation proceeds. I just hope that the Treasurer and the Minister assisting the Treasurer are fully aware of and alert to these facts and that they will ensure that consideration will be given where severe difficulties exist, as they do in some cases. 
Again I reiterate that we do not oppose the Bills nor do we seek to delay their passage. I hope the remarks that I have offered will be accepted as sincere because they are the facts as I have found them. They are meant to be constructive; they are realistic and I hope they are informative. They are facts that must not be overlooked. 
Another fact that is relevant is that I have been advised quite often that the Taxation Office has, in the last taxation year 1972-1973, been somewhat more severe in granting extensions of time for payment of taxation. Extensions were more easily obtainable in the past. If a person paid primary tax and applied for an extension, where difficulty was recognised by the Office, it was acceptable to the Office to receive a post-dated cheque for the provisional sum. These arrangements were made with the Taxation Office. This course was not followed this year and banks were far from helpful in advancing temporary accommodation to assist taxpayers in this position. It is with this background that I find it necessary to appeal to the Minister assisting the Treasurer for assurances that, where necessary, there will be a measure of understanding and co-operation combined with the further phasing in of the quarterly tax instalments in advance of the end of the financial year at 30 June. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I present without further discussion an amendment to clause 4. The amendment has been circulated in my name. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Committee are aware of its intent. I move: 
At the end of proposed section 59B., add the following new sub-section: 
No such revocation or variation of a quota order under this section shall be made which would operate to cause increased financial liability under this Act to any person acting in good faith who has cleared any goods of the kind to which the order relates, in quantity not exceeding the quota order applicable to him on the first notification of his quota to which the revocation or variation applies.'. 
I want to co-operate with the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I shall attempt to do that, although it is somewhat difficult because I wish to move an amendment in the Committee stage. I want to explain the reason for that amendment, but I want to give the Government my co-operation because it is co-operating with us on another Bill. In speaking to the Excise Bill and the Customs Bill I take note of what the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  wants to achieve with them. They are designed to limit the opportunity for persons to profit from increases in customs and excise duties which are made from time to time, especially those normally varied in conjunction with the Budget. The Opposition does not oppose the broad principle of these Bills, but in the Committee stage I intend to move an amendment in relation to the variation or revocation of the quota by the Minister for Customs and Excise during the prescribed period. 
I should like to raise one or two aspects of the Bill. I thank the Minister for Overseas Trade for the co-operation I have received from, the Department of Customs and Excise on some questions I have raised on these matters. The Minister said broadly that prior to the Budget, for example, some importers, manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers clear from bond excess stocks on which the existing duty is paid. If their expectations are correct and duty is increased, these excess stocks can possibly be sold at marked-up prices, although duty was paid at a lower rate, and an excessive profit - a speculator's profit - can be made. The ordinary person in the street has to pay for that profit. 
The solution afforded by these Bills, briefly, is that the Minister is empowered to specify a declared period during which restriction on clearances will apply and a description of goods or classes of goods which are to be subject to the restriction. He will be able to name a base period which would indicate normal levels of clearance and, having regard to normal clearances and other relevant factors, he will then establish a quota. The wish of the Minister and the purpose of these Bills is that, this will prevent, to a large degree, duty avoidance and profit therefrom. There is provision under which a person or company may clear goods in excess of the quota. But clearance of goods in excess of the quota will be subject to a penalty in that to clear these excess goods the person or company must lodge a cash deposit equal to the existing duty as well as having to pay the existing duty. If duty rises this additional duty is to be appropriated from the deposit and the residue is to be refunded. 
I do not want to manufacture dissent, but there are certain deficiencies which seem to me to be inherent. If we accept the appropriateness of the base period and the question of a realistic quota being arrived at and note that there is a review tribunal to which a quota-holder can appeal against the Minister's decision, we have another probability. Whether it is by media speculation, political leaks or whatever - we saw media speculation in one newspaper this morning - no rise in duty seems to be entirely unexpected, even if its degree is not anticipated. In expectation of such a rise we can well have the situation that the final consumer may enter into something of a buying spree, whether it is cases of spirits, cartons of cigarettes, drums of petrol, or whatever it may be. 
With merchants and importers on an established quota, that quota could and probably would be exhausted. Where do we proceed from there? Either we can have a shortage or scarcity and perhaps even a consequent black market, or the merchants or importers etc. have to clear goods in excess of their quota to be sold within the prescribed period at a price based on a certain level of duty. They have to contribute a substantial cash security. Should duty rise, they have to subsidise this rise out of their working margin. In such an instance there would be no motive to avoid duty and profit. It is the result of consumer demand. The alternative is a dry-up in supply or shortages. So these Bills are not completely satisfactory or effective. I recognise that the Minister said that they do not go all the way and I recognise what the Government is trying to do. 
The very specification of goods in itself most certainly would be rightly or wrongly taken by consumers as a loud and clear message that such goods would be subject to increased duty. This would naturally stimulate purchas ing in excess of normal expectations. This seems self-evident, even if we had a blanket specification of goods including goods not likely to be subject to duty increase. Unfortunately there is a limited field and some favoured goods usually attract Budget attention in this regard. One can almost bet on cigarettes and tobacco products, potable spirits and petrol being primary targets. I hope that the Minister will see that all I am trying to do is to put up a practical proposition, namely, that this is a very real and likely position and is a probable undesirable by-product which is contradictory to the aim which the Minister stated he hopes to achieve with these Bills. 
The Minister might reply that proposed section 59B in the Excise Bill will deal adequately with that situation. I will not go into the question at any length because he knows the section in the Bill to which I refer, but in its present form I cannot accept that reply as an assurance. That is why I intend to move the amendment in the Committee stage. Briefly, the section provides that at any time before the expiration of the declared period or before the time for the expiration of the review period the Minister may revoke or vary a quota order. The Minister for Overseas Trade might say that this section would give the Minister for Customs and Excise the power to enlarge the quota to cope with stimulated1 increased consumer demand. But the section does not r.ive a guarantee; there is a threat ' of revocation. Variations in excise may be up or down and some retrospective penalty could be imposed as the section now appears. That may not be the intent of the wording of the section, but I believe that it is within the scope and the meaning of the section to create that exact situation. 
Today I had discussions with the drafting section of the Department of Customs and Excise and received an assurance that the legislation covers this point of objection. I studied the information that was given to me; that the word 'revoked'' is deemed to mean that if there were a revocation it would mean that the revocation applied to remove the quota and that the merchant or importer would no longer have to worry about a quota. But that would not be the meaning of the word under the Bill. I do not think that the Minister would agree with that meaning of the word. 'Revoke' means to take away and leave without any. I was advised that in the Bill 'revoke' means putting a person on a nil quota. There is a very big difference between having to work without any restriction and having a nil quota. I put it to the House that that is important. 
I shall be brief and try to finish my remarks quickly because we want to go into the Committee stage. I believe that the same thing could apply in the matter of variation of the quota and that a penalty could be inflicted on an importer or a merchant because of that situation. I hope that, when I move the amendment, the Minister will realise that I am trying to be constructive. We are not opposing the Bills. We agree very heartily with the principle of the Bills. We just want to remove something which may not be an attempt to do anything sinister under the Bills but about which we are concerned. I think that the amendment I propose to move can clarify that issue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I seek to explain to the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  that I am moving this amendment because I got 2 opinions today that were somewhat in variance. It was explained to me that one of the reasons the Government wanted this provision in the Bill - I can understand it - was that it did not want a mistake made. But in the event of that happening I think it is probably better to make a mistake in one quota for one person and have the provisions I seek in the Bill. I proposed my amendment because I wanted the Minister to give the assurance he gave in Committee on the Excise Bill. Therefore, without any further delay, I move an amendment to clause 6 as follows: 
At the end of proposed section 132B., add the following new sub-section: "(10) No such revocation or variation of a quota order under this section shall be made which would operate to cause increased financial liability under this act to any person acting in good faith who has cleared any goods of the kind to which the order relates, in quantity not exceeding the quota order applicable to him on the first notification of his quota to which the revocation or variation applies". 
-This, for me, is a rather academic exercise because I have only one job and only one salary. I have no other property deriving other income. I also have a tolerant bank manager but I do not have a pekingese or a budgerigar. I am pleased that the Government has permitted order of the day No. 8 to precede debate on order of the day No. 7 because it should do so. I am pleased also that the amendment has been moved because I think it is necessary. The crux of the whole question is whether arrangements should be made. I do not oppose the setting up of a committee. I do not oppose that committee investigating whether it would necessarily make us more honest or more fit to represent people in this place if we made such revelations as it feels it might be wise for us to make. 
For order of the day No. 7 to have preceded this order of the day, I think, would have been a travesty of justice because I think the contents of that order of the day should come as a result of a committee report. I think we should know and have the benefit of the deliberations of a committee concerning what are pecuniary interests, what ought to be revealed, just how available that information ought to be and whether consideration should be given to persons other than members of Parliament, because this principle could be taken further and could be applied to those who handle the affairs of people and who could probably be in a position similar to that of members of Parliament. It could apply to members of the judiciary, to public servants and to municipal and shire councillors. It could apply to a whole range of people. The proposed committee should consider these aspects. 
Paragraph (a) of order of the day No. 7 should be more specific. It talks about pecuniary interests, direct or indirect, that a member may have had, may have or may be expecting to have. Naturally I cannot accept that proposal in its present form. However I can accept order of the day No. 8 as it is proposed to be amended. I can accept that a committee be set up to look into all aspects of this matter including whether there ought to be a register, what form that register should take and what it is necessary to record in that register. We need to know the purpose of that register. I think this is the correct order of tilings. I hope that the Government will accept the amendment and I hope that it will see that this matter ought to precede Order of the Day No. 8. 
I disagree with the point of view expressed by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  in this regard. I want to know, for instance, what information ought to be available to the public, as well as in what circumstances and for what purposes it should be made available. Details of holdings in public companies are available to the public now. If one goes to the proper place and one pays one's $1 one can obtain details of all the shareholdings in every public company. Information in relation to land dealings is also available now to any person who goes to the right place and pays the fee. I can readily understand, for instance, why a Prime Minister from either side of politics might require to know the holdings in various companies and the various interests of his Ministers. I would think that is the practice in most parliaments and in most governments. If that practice is to be widened let us set up a committee to find out how it should be widened and exactly what ought to be put in such a register. 
I believe that when we enter this place we lose our privacy to a degree. When a person becomes a member of this Parliament he has very little private life. That is not a complaint at all; that is something that we expect and we accept. But I think we ought to have some rights of privacy. Therefore, if the proposed committee were to look at this matter responsibly it would come to the Parliament and say: 'These are the reasons that we think these things ought to be registered and ought to be made available. This is the nature of the thing. This is how it should be presented and this is how it should be made available and these are the people to whom it should be made available'. If that is done we will have things in their proper order. I think the Government would find that it would receive the cooperation of this side of the House if things were done in that order. 
I appeal to the Government to consider that aspect, because in that context Order of the Day No. 7 is out of place. We are presuming something about which we have no evidence, no advice and in relation to which we have conducted no investigation. We would be setting up a committee more or less for the purpose of filling in the names at the top of the columns, because that is the order in which these matters appear on the notice paper. 
I do not want to take a lot of time but I do think this matter is so very important. I hope the amendment will be accepted because we ought not to presuppose things in the way in which Order of the Day No. 8 does. Order of the Day No. 8 reads: 
I ) That a Joint Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on the arrangements to be made . . . 
I think that Committee ought to report whether arrangements should be made and then give us the nature of the arrangements that it recommends. Then we can have a look at the deliberations of that Committee. We find that such committees of the Parliament are an asset to the Parliament. We find that parliamentary committees achieve very much on a non-partisan basis. We find that committees are very rarely divided on political lines. We find that the deliberations which take place at such committees result in the enrichment of the legislation that comes out of this Parliament. I think we want this legislation, but we want good legislation. If we want legislation which will be fair to the men who come to this place to represent the people, this is the way to do it. Therefore I support the amendment and ask that the Government give consideration to taking the course of action suggested. 
-The Minister may not be able to answer this question at this stage. I point out that the cost of petrol is a tax deduction item for business purposes. The price paid at the bowser for petrol is the price of that petrol for taxation deduction purposes. The cost of the petrol plus the excise on it is paid in the one transaction. If the use of liquefied petroleum gas was a tax deduction for business purposes the price for the product would be paid at the distribution point while the excise would be paid to the Comptroller of Customs. I assume that the 2 payments would be lumped together as the total cost of that business tax deduction item. The payment is made in respect of the cost of the product and the separate tax on that product, as is the case with petrol. I hope that a different principle would not be applied to the use of this fuel. 
-We are dealing today with 2 Bills relating to liquid petroleum gas. One is a tax Bill and the other is a tax collection Bill. On 17 September the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  pointed out that the legislation imposes a tax on liquefied gas for the propelling of road vehicles. This tax was foreshadowed in the Budget Speech delivered earlier that night. The excise does not affect in any way the bulk of liquefied petroleum gas used by the community for domestic and industrial heating, cooking and various other purposesalthough I believe that the use of this product for that purpose is something which belongs in history as it is totally unprocurable at this time. There is an extreme shortage in the supply of that type of liquefied petroleum gas. 
This gas usually comes in the form of propane or butane, or a mixture of both. It is liquefied by compression. It is usually a by-product of one of 2 processes. When the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  spoke last Tuesday of the way in which the tax was to be graded he referred to the costliness of the distribution of liquefied petroleum gas. As the Treasurer rightly pointed out, the cost of this product is incurred in its storage and distribution. It is a by-product of the refining process of crude oil. It is also a by-product of the process of refining natural gas. The cost factors which the Treasurer and the Minister for Overseas Trade mentioned last Tuesday night are related to distribution. The high cost of establishing supply and distribution facilities were referred to. This is why the rate of tax payable with respect to liquefied gas will be increased by only SO per cent of any future increase that may occur in the excise on petrol. 
One of the cost factors is the cost of transport. We know that transport costs are absolutely soaring and that this is the result largely of 2 proposals. The first is the increased excise on petrol products. Whenever any additional excise revenue is required in the form of an indirect tax, one of the favourite targets for such a measure is petroleum products as well as tobacco, among other things. Since the Labor Government was elected in 1972 the excise on petroleum products has been increased twice. The other factor- and one on which we have protested very bitterly- is the removal of the equalisation subsidy scheme, introduced by a Liberal-Country Party government, which kept down the price of petrol, particularly in country areas, by relating that price to city prices. It followed the reasonable principle that petrol prices in the country should be within 5c a gallon of the price at ports. I believe- I repeat my earlier assertion- that the removal of the subsidy was a retrograde step. We are seeing the effects of that action in western Queensland where petrol is selling at $1 a gallon. Such action results in transport costs becoming fearsomely high. No matter what excise is imposed on these products, transport costs are added. By the time the petroleum products leave the ports and the refineries in our capital cities, quite alarming costs are carried to purchasers in our more distant areas. 
At the moment, liquid petroleum gas does enjoy a price advantage over all other forms of petroleum in Australia. Reports  on  this aspect conflict, but I do believe that liquid petroleum gas is regarded as at least as efficient as petrol and other products used at present. This gas is being increasingly used in many other countries. I believe that in Australia the Commonwealth Government has a number of cars in its car pool in Melbourne which are run on liquid petroleum gas and that the performance, efficiency and cost of this move is being assessed. So, this is a product in which Australia is most interested indeed. 
One big advantage of liquid petroleum gas is that it causes very little, if any, air pollution. This is an important factor. One of the major worries about the level of pollution, which is increasing in Australia as it is in every other country, is the pollutant effect resulting from the use of motor vehicles. As our highways and our cities become more and more crowded with motor vehicles, the acuteness of this problem will increase. The use of liquid petroleum gas has the advantage that it is non-pollutant; it does not contribute to this pollution which is an increasing worry. Therefore, the wisdom of discouraging too greatly the use of liquid petroleum gas for propelling motor vehicles comes into question. The problem is a vexing one because of the advantage of and the contribution made by the use of liquid petroleum gas for this purpose. Perhaps we ought to watch what level of discouragement of the use of this gas results from the new excise charge. 
I hope also that the introduction of this excise on petroleum gas does not introduce a whole rosy new field by which revenue may be raised. I am delighted that the recent Budget did not include yet another increase in the excise on petrol. Such action would have just about crippled a number of country industries and country areas, if that has not already been done. Another way of raising excise duty- that is, through liquefied petroleum gas- has been discovered. I hope that this new avenue will not mean that this excise will be used in future as a revenue producer in the taxation field. 
I trust that the figures which I read in the 1973 report of the Bureau of Transport Economics are somewhere near the mark when they state that Australia's reserves of liquid petroleum gas as at October 1973 were 1,133 million barrels. Most of those reserves came from gas reservoirs but some were also from reserviors. The 2 main fields are the Dampier sub-basin and off-shore Gippsland. Those figures represent the gas directly recoverable from oil and gas reserves discovered up to that time. At usage then assessed and at the rate of extraction then assessed, the comment is made that this represented approximately 80 years supply. 
At present, the level of market demands for major petroleum products determines the volume of natural gas production and the composition of refinery output. The quantity of liquid petroleum gas produced as a bi-product of the operations of which I have spoken is variable. It is not subject, therefore, to direct control. We have had export surpluses. If it cannot be exported and it cannot be held in bulk storage, I imagine that the only alternative would be to pump the excess back into the natural reservoirs. A cost of recovery would be involved, and it would be passed on to the consumer. 
Motor vehicles can be adapted to use liquid petroleum gas. Indeed, liquid petroleum gas can replace both super and standard grades of petrol, possibly with comparable efficiency, as I said. The Minister for Overseas Trade may comment on this aspect: I believe that the report from which I quoted stated that the cost of conversion of a vehicle to liquefied petroleum gas operation ranges from $400 to $600. It reported that the use of liquid petroleum gas has another advantage; it gives a very long engine life. The report spoke of 20 years. 
Earlier this year- I mention these figures for a purpose which I will develop later- the retail price of liquefied petroleum gas a gallon was reported in one journal as being approximately 2 lc in Melbourne, 22c in Adelaide and 31c in Sydney. The transport costs in delivering this product, as I noted before, add appreciably to its retail cost. We know that the special bulk tanks which are required for storage of this gas are extremely expensive. This was stated rather indirectly in the speech by the Minister for Overseas Trade in introducing this measure. I think that is what he had in mind when he talked about the cost of establishing supply and distribution. 
The cost advantage which is held by liquid petroleum gas over motor spirit and diesel fuel results almost entirely from the absence of excise duty on the sale of liquefied petroleum gas. Now an excise duty is to apply to this gas. A comparison of wholesale prices in 1973 shows that liquid petroleum gas, before excise, was actually marginally more expensive than premium grade petrol and substantially dearer than standard grade petrol and distillate. Perhaps greater domestic consumption might assist to reduce the price of liquid petroleum gas, at least before the excise is added. 
We have been advised that about 14 per cent of motor vehicles in Australia conceivably could be converted to use liquid petroleum gas. I do not know how efficient this type of propulsion is. But trucks and transports seem to be very heavily pollutant vehicles and if the efficiency of liquid petroleum gas is nearly comparable to that of the present fuels some encouragement or assistance could be given to the conversion of these vehicles to run on liquid petroleum gas. In this way we could strike a very good blow for anti-pollution in Australia. 
I am worried about that section of the Bill which deals with the liability for and collection of tax. I am very concerned because I think that what is set out in the Bill in this respect is totally impractical and clumsy. I cannot see how on earth the proposal contained in the Bill can work without making every person who wants to use liquid petroleum gas in his vehicle a form filler. Before coming to this place I was practising as a public accountant and I know about the forms that had to be filled out by people on the land. I am not blaming this Government for all of them. I am not saying that the forms are unnecessary. But the number of forms required to be filled out are mounting and mounting. Much of my work as a public accountant was concerned with people who had to fill out periodic forms and returns. In many respects this was a sickening process. Therefore I am very alarmed about the way in which the Bill proposes to collect the tax. Clause 6 of the Bill states: 
Tax payable in respect of the use of liquefied gas used for the purpose of propelling a road vehicle is payable by the person who was the owner of the liquefied gas immediately before it was so used. 
I take the clause to mean that the person who puts the liquefied gas in his car and uses it is the person liable to pay the tax. Clause 7 states: 
1 ) Where, in any month, liquefied gas is used for the purpose of propelling a road vehicle, the person who is liable to pay the tax m respect of the use of that liquefied gas - 
And that seems to be the motorist- shall, within 28 days after the close of the month or within such further period as the Comptroller, in special circumstances, allows, furnish to a Collector, in accordance with a form, and in a manner, determined by the Comptroller, a return relating to that use of the liquefied gas. 
A person shall not furnish a return that is false or misleading in material particular. 
Penalty: $1,000. 
To me the proposal is absolutely clumsy and impractical. As I have said, I am alarmed at this section of the Bill. I do not think that what the Bill proposes in this respect will encourage people to convert their cars to the use of liquid petroleum gas. I know that this will be a difficult tax to collect. I concede that. I have thought about the collection of the tax and I think that responsibility for paying the tax should be in the hands of the distributor. I think that the distributor should be required to make the necessary returns. 
Mention can be made of the tax on distillate. When primary producers purchased distillate from a supplier they filled in a form on which they stated their exemption number and specified that the fuel was to be used for primary production purposes and they received an exemption from the tax. The procedure in this case is somewhat reversed. The bulk of liquid petroleum gas in common use- once again, if one can get it- is contained in bottles for domestic use and does not come within the ambit of this legislation. Therefore we are talking about a small proportion of liquid petroleum gas which will be affected by the Bill. I do not think many motorists will be happy or enthusiastic about having to sit down every 28 days to make out their returns, especially when they know that if they do not fill in a return or if the return is false or misleading- intentionally or otherwise- they will be confronted with what is quite a massive penalty of $ 1 ,000. 1 think that this sort of penalty could be applied to companies and distributors. But it seems to me to be a pretty vicious tax to impose on a motorist. 
I know that this is a Budget Bill. Therefore we on the Opposition side have to look at it responsibly in considering what amendments we might want to make. I have tried to point out that the legislation before us is a stupid and clumsy way of doing things. I think that the onus is on the wrong person and in the wrong place. The Opposition is accused of obstruction whenever it points out the deficiencies. The Bill before us is another example of what has happened so often in the life of this Government where ill thought out legislation, such as this, has been introduced into the House. On occasions we have even had examples of sloppy drafting. Often a good Bill has been the result of Opposition amendments which have finally been accepted by the Government. I do not think that we ought to write the Bills for the Government. So I hope that the Minister will give us some assurance that he will have a look at the matters to which I have drawn attention and that he will devise some other way of collecting this levy and not make the motorist or the user responsible. I think that those people who are competent, and have the staff and can understand these things, should be the people whose responsibility it is to pay the levy and furnish the forms. As I have pointed out, I think that this section of the Bill is clumsy and inequitable. I think that this fault should be looked at. 
I think that liquid petroleum gas should be used to a greater extent for the propulsion of motor vehicles from the point of view not only of reducing pollution but also as an alternative fuel to petrol which has become so dear and which has been hamstrung with transport cost difficulties. In vast areas of Queensland, particularly in areas in which primary producers are trying to harvest or plant their crops, petrol and distillate is not available. Many areas do not have the fuel to run school buses. Some industry has been brought to a standstill because of the complete lack of fuel in Queensland and in northern New South Wales. This matter was covered very effectively and properly the other day. 
It is not the Opposition's intention to spend a great deal of time delaying, obstructing or opposing this Bill. I think that I have made the point that I wanted to put forward. I am glad to see that the Government has shown some restraint in the Bill in regard to the rate at which the tax on liquid petroleum gas will rise. It has decided that the rate of tax payable on liquefied gas used in motor vehicles will be increased by only SO per cent of any increases of petrol excise that may occur in that period. Might I express the fervent hope that any increase in petrol excise in any period will be minimal or non-existent. I again appeal to the Minister to have a look at Part II of the Bill which deals with liability for and collection of tax. Clauses 6, 7, 8 and 9 are covered in this section of the Bill. I ask the Minister to have a look at the clumsiness of the procedure by which the tax is to be collected and to see whether something which is more just, fair and equitable can be worked out. This section of the Bill alarms me. I criticise it very strongly and firmly. But in other respects we will not offer opposition or obstruct the Bill in any way. 
-I am wondering whether the Minister for Overseas Trade would be prepared to answer one question when he is replying to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  If he were to do so it would save time. In speaking to clause 7 the Minister may have missed the point that I did recognise that there was a difference between petrol, distillate and LPG in relation to the small user group. The Minister said that there was some discretion or that the way in which the officers administered the legislation was going to be important. I gathered the impression that he meant that perhaps we might get away from the system of lodging monthly returns. The question I would like to ask of him relates to clause 7 and the reference to what is to happen 28 days after the close of a month. The only variation is to be 'in special circumstances'. Respectfully I ask: Does that give any discretion to the Comptrollerto the Department of Customs and Excise- to allow any leeway in that respect? Does it not lay down that there is something mandatory about the returns being submitted every 28 days? Can we get away from the requirement to submit monthly returns? The Minister understood the point that was made that this was something we wanted to avoid and that this was something that we were concerned about. 
-I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
May I have the indulgence of the Chair to ask a question of the Minister as to how this Bill will be debated. Will it be debated as a separate Bill when the debate comes on? It is not brought in in the nature of a Customs validation? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-What an amazing performance we have just heard from the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Hayden).  He spoke about poverty. He spoke about many things. But inflation, under this Government, has done more to destroy the small man than it is possible to imagine. Everything he said about poverty confirms every word said and proves every accusation and every charge made by my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  The Acting Treasurer talked about a statement made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  What then is the purpose of the document that was presented to this House by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  the other evening? I understood that it was a Cabinet document. We then got a statement from a Government backbencher the other night that seemed to counter that document. What is the purpose of presenting it at all? What do government supporters do, write it today, think about it tonight and change it tomorrow? That is the way this Government has been going with its legislation since it took office and I think it proves very clearly that this Budget is a failure, a phoney, a fraud and a farce. 
The penalty tax or the super tax on income from property, the capital gains tax- that development gain tax- are part of a monstrous deception that has been imposed on the Australian people. This Government has the gall to tell the Australian taxpayers that there has been a cut in taxation. The Acting Treasurer wallowed in figures. He talked about restructuring the tax scale. I shall cite just a few figures from the Treasurer's own document. He talked of a tax cut of the measure of $430m or $500m. Yet here in the Treasurer's own figures it is stated that anticipated revenue from pay-as-you-earn deductions will increase this year by $ 1 ,95 1 m, other taxation will increase by $525m and company taxation will increase by $526m. If that is not fraud and deception I do not know the definition of the words. It is an absolute phoney. With inflation running at an all time high, and increasing, I venture to say that not one Australian taxpayer will pay less tax and that everyone will pay very much more. To add to the Government's massive confidence trick we now have these vicious new taxes. Surely in our inflationary climate, when we need investment and savings as we have never needed them before, when we need investors in companies to produce rises in productivity and increased employment, and when we need continued investment in housing and housing societies, there can be nothing as damaging and as stupid as a penalty tax on income from property or, as the Government likes to call it, 'unearned income'. In the same voice government supporters call for an increase in business confidence. What phonies they are. To use a very 'in' phrase, what hoo-ha it all is. 
This is extreme Big Brother socialism at its worst. The young people who have established a home savings account have already seen thengrant disappear and now they are to be penalised. The Treasury reaps more tax, prices continue to soar and their home ownership prospects disappear altogether. The responsible parents who preserve some savings for a rainy day to take care of unexpected illness or unemployment or even to send a child to one of those despised private schools, are belted for it. The pensioner or the aged person- the Cabinet has not yet told us otherwise- who has a savings account to provide for a decent funeral sees an avaricious government grabbing at his bit of interest. The aged who have saved and invested during their working life to ensure that they will not have to depend entirely on social security payments find the tax man reaping his share, after they have been taxed all the way through their working lives. Those who would start up or build up industry to increase productivity and provide employment, and who seek capital from investors, find that the Government is discouraging and even destroying the incentive to invest. Thrift, initiative, savings and investment are crimes to this Government. They are something to be stamped out. Even a trade unionist who invests in his own trade union society can also get the lash. 
This Government, with all its multiplicity of Treasurers, goes along with ad hoc decisions from day to day. It has a lot of spokesmen. We notice that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  have spoken on this matter and now the Government has added to its list that all-wise, that learned, that profound honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  We must be getting near the bottom of the barrel shortly. How on earth can we take this Government seriously when the Treasurer presents a Budget and gives us certain statements and then the honourable member for Chifley, of all people, starts to expound economic measures and Caucus decisions in this House. With all the authority of the back bench we are now told what the position is to be. What can we believe? Is that the official announcement? Does Cabinet make one Budget and Caucus another? Honourable members should remember that it is all right for such changes to be made in the Caucus Room and flung into this House, but if the Senate- the Senate the other House elected by the Australian people- makes one suggestion or one amendment it is obstructionist and unreasonable. What inconsistency? 
Does the Government think that by performances such as this it can buy back the confidence lost by people it has betrayed, by putting up the honourable member for Chifley who, among other things, prattled about social justice. He asked whether I believe in it. I will answer him now. If his definition of social justice is rampant inflation, crippling interest and record and untold misery I will have nothing to do with that sort of social justice. That is the result of this Budget and that is the result of this Government. He fooled no one and he won back not a single vote. This is a rotten, wicked, unjust and indefensible tax. It has been condemned by all sections all over Australia. We do not even know yet what the decision is to be. The Treasurer has not made a statement in this House on it.  His  only statement is contained in the Budget. 
This super tax could not have been introduced at a more inopportune or inappropriate time. It is directed against those people who are willing to invest in Australia and Australia 's future- that is, if there are any left. This super tax is the height of stupidity and irresponsibility. Instead of fooling around with adjustments, which make the principle no less immoral, it should be abandoned completely and immediately. Take the case of shares in Australia today. If we are to believe the Government and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and the Treasurer who say: 'Invest, there are better days ahead. Salvation is just around the corner', then on Budget day, valuation day, every share in Australia was at its lowest ebb. So not only is there to be a surcharge on the interest and dividends from those shares, but also every sale will be caught up in capital gains tax when that sale is made. 
This Government gets it each way, every way, both ways; the Australian public is getting it no way. In the first place, to bring in a Budget which proposes such things is a totally irresponsible action by the Government. To give an official announcement- I take it it was that- from the back bench about some Caucus change reeks of irresponsibility and mismanagement. That is the measure of the sort of government the people of Australia are getting and will get until they remedy the mistakes of 1 972. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the amendments. I have read the report of the debate in the other place yesterday and also the explanation given by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy).  The Opposition does not oppose the amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-I commend the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  for searching so hard and so diligently to find something to compliment in this Budget. I, too, am from Queensland and I will point turn to a Budget which was introduced recently in the Queensland Parliament. I think that it is a model which this Government could well copy. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  - and he was an excellent Treasurer- speaking earlier in this debate pointed out that the document that we are considering has no right at all to be called a Budget. From the gloomy faces on the Government side when the Budget was introduced and from the manner of the presentation adopted by Government members to try to defend it, I think that they agree with his comment. This Budget would be one of the worst Budgets, the most illconceived Budgets and most inappropriate Budgets that was ever presented to the Australian Parliament. 
At a time when inflation is at an alarming level and is still rising rapidly, is ripping the heart out of our country, is destroying the savings of our people and is cruelly and viciously striking at pensioners and those on fixed incomes as well as the home seeker,, the primary producer, the working man and the business man, and when a wage-price spiral is wrecking our economy; a Budget is presented to this Parliament which seeks to do absolutely nothing at all to stem the tide of inflation. This Government, when in Opposition, attacked its predecessors for an inflation rate of 4'/2 per cent. But it has framed a Budget which is based on the premise that inflation will continue at an increased rate of more than 20 per cent. This Government blames everybody from the multi nationals to the media, but never itself, for the inflation which is rampant in our country. In this Budget, the Government has abrogated all responsibility and has virtually admitted that it has no idea in the world how to begin to tackle the problem and, worse still, it does not seem to care one iota about it. 
Restraint was surely the required keynote. The Government had called upon the trade unionists for restraint in wage demands. It had called for restraint in the control of prices. It had told the State governments that they must exercise restraints in their own Budgets. Then, as it presents its own program, it throws restraint to the winds and budgets for massive Government expenditure increased to the extent of 32.4 per cent. It then approached the trade union movement and urged it to restrain its wage and conditions demands. As a carrot, it dangled before the unions a specious tax cut, a tax cut so small that by Christmas at the present rate of inflation, the effect and the benefit of the tax cut will have completely and absolutely disappeared. The Government well knows that it has given the trade union movement no lead and no incentive for restraint. It should not wonder at the reluctance of the unions to embrace indexation and the other proposals which are being suggested to them. 
The Government has called on business and industry for co-operation and restraint. Yet it presents them with a Budget which not only ensures the continuation of inflationary cost rises but also penalises all initiative, destroys all incentives to investment, discourages savings which are essential to investment and which will not reduce the impost of crippling interest charges, and it will retain a credit squeeze which must undoubtedly aggravate the difficulties of liquidity and send an increasing number of businesses and industries into receivership and liquidation. 
This Government has completely destroyed its credibility as a 'no unemployment' party. This is the Party which said that the Liberal-Country Parties would fight inflation by massive unemployment. This Labor Government will not even fight inflation and it has unemployment of the like which we never dreamed we would ever see in this country. It has accepted and it has used unemployment as a policy option. It has guaranteed by its Budget and its policy that unemployment figures will continue to rise, and to rise rapidly. That has been admitted by members of the front bench of the Government. 
Where it establishes, as it has established, and exacerbates, as this Budget does, a business climate of rampant inflation, escalating costs, industrial turmoil, credit squeezes, record interest rates, tariff measures which of themselves have virtually destroyed many industries such as the textile and clothing industries, the footwear industry and the electrical retail industry, businesses and industries will continue to fail and to go to the wall, and there will be retrenchments on a massive scale. That will be the fault of this Government. This Budget exacerbates that situation because it destroys all initiative and all enterprise. It sounds the death knell of many industries and will throw an ever-increasing number of the Australian work force into the misery of unemployment. It will destroy their dignity, their hopes, their aspirations and their natural desires for the social justice about which this Labor Government preaches but which in effect it denies. 
At a time when increased productivity is absolutely vital, when Labor spokesmen blithely say that we must produce our way out of inflation, incentive and opportunity have been destroyed. The only incentive in this Budget is the incentive to contract and contain all activity and expansion in the vain hope that such curtailment might enable them to ride out the storm. This is totally inconsistent and incompatible with productivity and destroys one of the essential bases on which any fight against inflation and unemployment must begin. 
Even its hand-outs are barbed. The welcome elimination of television licences is the next aspect to which I turn. I remember the honourable member for Brisbane telling us all that the Post Office was doing. He did not tell us how the Labor Government had raised the postal charge for an ordinary letter to 10c. He did not tell us of the massive rises in telephone connection fees. He did not tell us of the disastrous telephone policy in the country areas of Queensland as a result of which people have come to me and told me that to convert from a party line service to an automatic service for which the lines already exist will cost them $3,000, $4,000 or $5,000. That is the record of this Government and of the Post Office under its control. 
Television licences have been eliminated. But this action comes at a time when costs have risen and are rising so rapidly that no one can afford a television set. It is a time when tariff policies have wrought havoc in the television repair and parts industry. Many would be in the same position as I am. My Kriesler television set has been sitting in a television repair shop for 6 months. It cannot be repaired because parts are completely unprocurable. The Government has a novel way of dealing with that problem: In this Budget, postage has been made so excessive and phone calls so expensive that I cannot even write to or ring my Federal member to complain about the situation. I cannot drive to see my Federal member because in Queensland no fuel is available to put in my car. 
-The Book Bounty Bill 1974 proposes an amendment to the Book Bounty Act to give effect to the recommendation of the report of the Industries Assistance Commission of 21 September 1973. The main purpose of the amendment is to raise that bounty, in accordance with the recommendation, from 25 per cent to 33W per cent. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. However, there are a number of things that I would like to say about it. In January 1969 book manufacturing members of the Printing and Allied Trades Employers' Federation of Australia submitted a request for assistance to book manufacturers in Australia to the then Minister for Trade and Industry, the right honourable  Sir John  McEwen. In May 1969 the then Minister announced the Government's intention to assist Australia's book manufacturers by approving the payment of a bounty. The payment of the bounty has been somewhat of an interim measure up to this stage pending a report by the Tariff Board. We have now received the Board's report and subsequent upon that report the legislation now before us was introduced. I hope that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who introduced the Bill in this place will consider some of the things I will say. There are some aspects of the Bill which call for comment. 
A slight change is proposed to the Act. This change is spoken of in the last paragraph of the second reading speech made by the Minister in which he said: 
The subjective requirements of literary or educational character contained in the present Act are deleted but all other exclusions are retained. 
The change that is proposed by the BUI is that the definition of the word 'book' is to be removed and a rather negative provision has been substituted. This change does not make any material alteration to the Act. It just puts what is in the Act at present in a somewhat different way. 
I want to refer to that part of the BUI which says that the bounty Will not be payable in respect of a book that is not a publication of a literary or educational character. I am perfectly aware that it is very difficult to define this objective in legislative terms, and having defined it to interpret it because what is indecent, what is educational and what is of a literary character would vary very much according to the point of view of the person making the decision. One magistrate or one State may differ from another in what they regard as acceptable or objectionable. 
I am concerned, and the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has expressed his concern in a number of places, about who may be receiving this bounty. We do not particularly want to attack the Government on its censorship policy or any other policy. That is not the purpose of our statement today. I hope that we will at some time have an opportunity to talk about these things because from the petitions that have been received by honourable members and the discussions that one hears around the electorate I think that we should consider and talk about censorship. There must be some aspects of this subject which concern not only members on this side of the House but also members on the other side of the House. I think that we should look again at our censorship provisions not only in the literary and film spheres but also in regard to what appears on television. I do not want to express a point of view on this subject today but I hope that the Minister will allow us the opportunity at some time to talk about these things. 
As I said, I am concerned about who may be getting this bounty. I am concerned because we have no real information on what books are being subsidised. We know, of course, that the bounty is paid to the printer and not to the publisher. That being so, we ought to be able to find out the titles of of the books that attract the bounty. But we are not able to ascertain this information. The honourable member for Boothby has for quite some time directed questions on notice to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who represents the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  in this place in which he has asked whether the titles would be made available to honourable members. I will read the reply that was given to one of his questions on notice. I am not criticising that reply but I want to point out the deficiency that exists because if we are to subsidise books and to pay such a bounty we ought to know and the Australian taxpayer ought to know where the bounty is being applied. 
It could well be. The Minister in his answer stated: . . . a record of titles is not kept 
He is referring to a specific request for an answer in respect of South Australia. He stated: 892 titles were involved in South Australia in 1972-73. Regular maintenance of a consolidated list of titles appearing on individual claim forms is not an operational necessity. 
I disagree with that. He further states: 
Preparation of the record now sought would thus impose a significant and- it is felt- unjustified work load on the Department 's South Australian office. 
This situation would apply to all of the other offices of the Department of Customs and Excise. I cannot accept that answer as sufficient because when we talk about book bounties we are talking about a lot of money. The official figure of the amount of money paid in 1972-73 in the form of a book bounty was $2,984,430. The bounty in that period was paid on over 30 million books. That is a substantial amount of bounty on a great number of books. I do not think it is reasonable to say that the preparation of a record would impose such a work load on the Department that we should not be able to receive details of the payment of the bounty. 
I do not know about 'Portnoy's Complaint'. The honourable member for Boothby raised the question in the first place because he had a list of books that were printed in Australia - 
I will give the honourable member the answer to that. The honourable member for Boothby did not make any accusation at the time that he asked his question that these books did or did not receive a bounty. He is not making that accusation now. He wanted to know the titles of the books that were receiving the bounty. He asked a fair and reasonable question about whether the bounty was being paid on these books. When I give honourable members the title of just one or two of these books they will understand why the honourable member for Boothby asked his question. For instance, one of the books was entitled: 'Inside Linda Lovelace by Linda Lovelace'. It is reasonable for the honourable member to ask whether such a book attracted a bounty. Some of the other books were entitled: 'Poor Alice ', ' Dangerous Game ', 'Adultery Without Men', 'Stag Film Girls', 'First Experience', 'The Coming of a Woman', 'The Painter of Passion' and 'The Wife Will Play'. Is it not reasonable to ask whether the publication of these books attract any bounty? If they do perhaps it is a matter for our assessment as to whether they should. 
In the first place we ought to know what printers are receiving the bounty and the titles of the books on which the bounty is paid. I know that such a requirement is not adequately covered in the Act because the Act can only broadly specify what sort of books qualify for such a bounty. The legislation talks about educational and literary standards. Our argument today is not what those standards ought to be. That is a matter for another time. Our argument is that a list of those books on which such bounty is paid ought to be available to us and to whoever wants the information on demand. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had explained the Opposition 's stand on this Book Bounty Bill. I had said that the Opposition will not be opposing the extension of the bounty. I had pointed out that it was actually a Liberal-Country Party Government which instituted it. I had said that the Opposition is quite happy about the increase in the bounty rate to 33'/&gt; per cent of the cost of production. The point I was making immediately prior to the suspension of the sitting related to the subject of to whom the bounty is being paid and to the lack of information as to which books attract it. I cannot understand why a list of such books ought not to be available, because surely whenever applications are made for the bounty- and they are made frequently- they must be made on an application form and surely both the applicant and the Department of Customs and Excise must retain a copy of such an application for their own purposes. For that reason, I cannot concede that it would impose an unreasonable work load on the Department to require it to make available such a list. To those honourable members who queued outside my door during the luncheon break I say that I have no copies of any of the books I have mentioned. I have not read any of them. I read out their titles because I thought they might indicate something of the contents of the books. 
For a bounty to be payable the book must be a publication of a literary or educational character, which is absolutely right. I suppose none of us would be stupid enough to impose his own standards of literature, art or anything else upon any other member. I think that there is plenty of room for division and difference of opinion. But the only restriction imposed on payment of the bounty is that it will not be paid on publications the printing, publishing or postal transmission of which would be an offence against a law of Australia. There is a great area for argument there. There is a great difference of opinion as to what is reasonable, what is decent, what is not obscene and what should be able to be trafficked in a particular State. As we know, different emphases are placed on those matters in different States. 
I am very pleased that I come from Queensland. I know that sometimes Queensland's censorship laws are called archaic and that sometimes its standards are called conservative, but I have been making a study of censorship in both the literary and films field- I have been helped very much by the officers who carry on that task and I understand and appreciate what they are doing- and it has made me feel happy to belong to conservative Queensland when I have seen what literature is being peddled in Australia today. As I have said, I do not wish to impose my own standards. Once again I appeal to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to make it possible for us at some time to discuss freely and fully the censorship of literature, films and television programs in Australia because I think many people on both sides of the House would like to comment on and talk about those things. 
The only restriction is a restriction in law and understandably that law differs from magistrate to magistrate. One magistrate might call something obscene or indecent, but somebody else might say in a changing climate and in a changing circumstance that he does not see it in that way. 
I take the point made by the honourable member for Hunter, but I understand that it is very difficult to define what is offensive to decency, obscene or blasphemous as referred to in the legislation. 
Once again it is a matter of who is doing the interpreting at a particular time. I know that it is very difficult to frame in words the intention behind an Act. That is why I have said that the only restriction here is one of law. 
I think that we would not find any disagreement in this House that some literature that might not be specifically banned by law still ought not to qualify for a bounty under the terms of the literary or educational qualification. That is the point I am making. That is why I think it is so very important for us to have the information I have sought when we are considering the payment of a bounty which is, as I mentioned before, of such a magnitude. Honourable members ought to have that information and the Australian taxpayers ought to be able to see to whom these bounties are being paid. A record is kept, even down to the very small amounts of all other bounties that are paid. For that reason I just cannot understand the answer that has been given to us that it is impossible to make such records available in this case. I do not want to cause any suspicion in the minds of people that there is a reason why we are not being given this information. I am not implying that. I hope that there is no reason for anybody to infer that that is what I am implying. But I do say that this information about the bounties of which we are approving ought to be available. 
Of couse we want to see Australian publishers and printers helped and we want to see these books being printed in Australia. Of course we want to see such a bounty continue and to see increased use made of it. But we also want to see the direction in which the money is expended. Because we are not being given that sort of information there can be very much misunderstanding. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Boothby, whom I have mentioned before, is very concerned about this matter and has asked previously for such information. Before he finished doing so on that occasion the Press came up with the story that he was proclaiming that South Australia is the pornography centre of Australia. The honourable member for Boothby and I were not attacking the Government at that time; we were not attacking the legislation either. What we were trying to do was to find out what was happening. In seeking that information the honourable member received a lot of unjustified criticism. Many innuendoes were drawn about what I think was a straight-forward, reasonable and logical question to ask. 
I do not want to hold up the proceedings of the House any longer but I do wish to repeat that we ought to take note of the fact that the bounty paid in 1972-73 amounted to just about $3m, which is a considerable amount of money. Nearly 3 1 million books, on which we have no information, benefited from the payment of that bounty. I have not been able to obtain the title of one book in relation to which the bounty was paid. It would be easy for me to pick up the list to which I referred earlier today and say that the bounty was paid to certain people who ought not to have received it. The books mentioned in the list to which I referred earlier today- I hesitated to name some of the titles on the list- are not books in relation to which I claim any bounty was paid, but they are books which were printed in Australia and about which we cannot obtain any information as to whether the bounty was or was not paid. Without repeating the titles, I say to honourable members: If those titles are an example of the contents of those books, do they think that we ought to make any bounty available in respect of those sorts of publications? Let us have the information I have sought. I hope that my request will be passed on to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  and that he will see it as being a reasonable request. My request is not made with any ulterior motive in mind. No honourable member can receive the letters and petitions I receive without knowing that this is in an area of particular concern to a large number of people. 
The Opposition will not be opposing the Bill; it will be supporting it. But the Opposition does appeal for more information to be made freely and readily available as to who is receiving this bounty and under what circumstances it is being paid and for those lists to be made available to us so that we can make our own objective judgment on whether this bounty is achieving what I believe the Government wants it to achieve and what we want it to achieve and wanted it to achieve when it was introduced by us when we were in government. 
My question, which is addressed to the Treasurer, deals with the Treasurer's Budget announcement and explanatory paper on the capital gains tax, and the fact that it will operate from valuation day, 17 September. Is it reasonable for the Treasurer to announce such a tax which is already operative before many very vital details in relation to it have been announced or even worked out? Is it a fact that as yet no decision has been made about disposal of depreciated assets and about assets under section 75 and section 76 of the Income Tax Assessment Act? Is it also a fact that it has not yet been decided whether provisional tax will apply to capital gains? When will those details be announced? When will we know the answers? Is it reasonable to introduce a tax that will operate retrospectively before announcing the details of it? 
-The debate on these estimates has had some happy notes. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  assured us that next year there will be no inflation and no unemployment. Perhaps he is foreshadowing an election which will put things right again. I am happy to see the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  recognising the worth and the quality of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I want to speak more particularly today for just a few minutes on the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise, although the comments I want to make to some entries overlap both the Department of Customs and Excise and the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
Since my appointment as the Opposition's spokesman for Customs and Excise, which includes matters within the Attorney General's Department relating to censorship and narcotics control as well as what we ordinarily recognise as the customs field, I have received assistance from the Attorney-General and Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy).  I want to place on record my appreciation of his courtesy and his co-operation and for giving me access to departments and to officers. Also, I would be remiss if I did not express my appreciation of the assistance of many people in those departments- the Comptroller-General of Customs,  Mr Carmody,  the collectors of customs in a number of places I have visited and officers of the AttorneyGeneral's Department who administer health, quarantine and other aspects associated with customs. I have endeavoured to be active in my role. I have visited a number of centres and I intend to visit a lot more. I have discussed with officers and with the Minister and his representatives a great number of matters. The purpose of my visits has not been to be critical, although if criticism is warranted I will deliver that criticism. But I have tried also never to be critical without being constructive. I thought that during this debate it would be fitting if I put my appreciation on record because the help has been sincerely appreciated. 
I do not want to take a lot of time in the debate because others want to speak who did not have an opportunity to speak in the second reading stage. I should like to talk about a lot of things. For instance, in the field of censorship I should like to pay a tribute to those who perform this rather vexing role. I believe I was very fortunate to have the opportunity to have discussions at quite some length with members of the Film Censorship Board and the Literary Censorship Board and to see them at work. I think we will never agree, any two of us, on these matters; this will be a field in which there will be great diversity of opinion. Although I did not always agree with the classification of the material being considered and although I did not agree with the guidelines that are laid down under which these officers must work- they are matters of policy; they are not matters of which these officials have any jurisdiction- I commend them for the very sincere way in which they try to apply that policy. 
I should like to mention just 2 items in the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise. Under Division 825 I was very pleased indeed to see a provision for patrol launches for the Department of Customs and Excise. In Darwin I had the opportunity to go on the customs launch. The officers there are doing a tremendous job. It is a big harbour and a very difficult area. I know that a launch of the type proposed in these estimates would be much better equipped and enable them to do much better the job that they have to do in a critical area such as Darwin. 
I do not know whether one requirement is provided for in the capital works expenditure and I hope that this will be brought to the Minister's attention. It also applies to Darwin. When I was there I was very impressed with the way the officials worked. Meeting the flights at Darwin airport were officers from customs, health, quarantine and the narcotics sections. Officers were looking at the possibility of foot and mouth disease and exotic diseases coming into Australia. Although perhaps I was not completely satisfied that everything that can be done is being done in every instance, I want in no way to criticise the efficiency of the officers. With the equipment and facilities with which they had to work they did . ^ the very best job possible. But it is difficult because of the facilities that they have there to do the job. They work in a very small area indeed. Fortunately when I was there and saw them examining a difficult flight that came in to Darwin from Bali it was a cool day. I know that some extensions and expansions are to be carried out in that area, but I should put in a word for the Customs people in Darwin because on a hot day- and Darwin can have such hot days, as my friend from the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will tell us- it must be an awful atmosphere in which to work. It must interfere with efficiency. I think that that is an area that should be looked at critically and urgently to see whether the projected extensions there can be hastened and whether the facilities can be improved in that critical area. 
The officers in this area have to be very alert indeed against the bringing in of narcotics. There is a direct flight to Darwin from Bali and we know that in Bali exotic diseases and foot and mouth disease are rampant. We know that it is very vital indeed that the officers do their job in this area. I do not need to tell anyone what would happen if foot and mouth disease were introduced into this country. It would be an absolute disaster, particularly if it got into the large areas of our States, such as northern Queensland, and in the Northern Territory. If the wild pigs and the native animals carried it around, we would never stop it. Therefore, it is a critical area and I think every facility that these officers can be given in such an area to perform their task should be provided. 
I hope in the estimates we are considering, although it is not specifically spelt out, that the Government has in mind capital construction in Darwin and that it will be continued. Those 2 things relate particularly to Darwin. I should like my appreciation recorded and I should like the Minister representing the Attorney-General in this chamber to pass those points on and to convey my appreciation to those officers who have assisted me in the job that I am trying to do. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a departmental requirement, covering registered nursing homes, that inmates leaving homes on outings should sign out and sign in, and for times and dates to be recorded. 
Is it also a requirement for inmates to have entered in a register, later inspected and stamped by a Government inspector, the full reasons and details for all such outings; if so, will he reconsider the severity of this requirement. 
If an assurance of the reputability of nursing homes is required, will he consider some other course which docs not intrude into the privacy of the inmates and which does not give such an appearance of minute 'Big Brother' supervision and regimentation of nursing home inmates. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by noting that in Queensland over the weekend the Prime Minister has been confidently proclaiming to us in reference to inflation and unemployment that we will have turned the corner by the middle of next year. I ask the Prime Minister: Is this the same corner as he said we had turned during the election campaign of April and May of this year- because that was a disastrous turning- and, on turning this elusive corner which is still in the future, can we now have any confidence that we shall arrive at a different and happier destination? 
-These Bills tell a strange story. We see in them a number of changes of direction and a number of changes of emphasis. We even see reverses. When they are taken in conjunction with the Budgets- and I use the plural- we do see a very strange story. 
-The honourable member for Berowra says: 'At least three'. Perhaps he has forgotten the fourth Budget. There was the Budget that never was. It started off as a tiger but something happened to it before it came into this chamber. 
The good thing about all this is that the most recent Budget at last recognises that profit hath virtue and that the private sector does provide significant employment. One of the dangers, particularly in an economic climate such as we have today, is that an alteration in excise duty, because excise duty rises, must be inflationary. Demand cannot be stimulated by increasing prices, and you raise prices by increasing excise. Prices are not reduced by increasing excise; they are raised. So we have seen by this exercise not an onslaught on inflation but a slide from one form of inflation into another. We have gone from demand inflation to stagflation to cost push inflation This very evening, the evening newspapers tell a horrifying story. The Sydney 'Sun' has the headline 'Up 25 Per Cent-Inflation Blow'. The Sydney 'Daily Mirror' states: 'New Inflation Blow- 30 per cent! ' No doubt the Government would prefer the Sydney 'Sun' to the Sydney 'Daily Mirror'. But the situation is an alarming one. 
I do not want to speak at any great length because some of what I would say on these Bills is related to customs matters and I will have the opportunity later, in considering a Bill which will be debated this evening, to deal with those matters. Although a cognate debate is being held on these Bills, they deal with a number of different matters. If plenty of time was available to the House, perhaps it would have been better to talk about those matters which arise from the recommendations of Industry Assistance Commission and Tariff Board Reports separate from matters relating to excise and customs tariffs. But we will not take issue on that point. We do not want to do that. Perhaps I will have a little more time in the subsequent debate to talk about them. 
Let me deal with the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut. I am pleased that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  is in the House this evening because I wish to raise one problem in respect of which,  Mr Minister,  I honestly cannot obtain an answer. I hope that that answer can be provided. The 25 per cent tariff cut was one of the most industry-destroying and confidence-destroying measures that ever came into this House. It probably gave rise to such things as the NEAT and RED schemes and structural assistance. We do not knock these, but I am afraid that they savour of a bandaid being applied to something of a mortal wound. 
It was this 25 per cent tariff cut which made an attack on particular industries. One industry in my electorate was a clothing factory of 25 years' standing which employed up to 70 people. I battled hard to save it. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry said: 'Well, anybody affected under this 25 per cent tariff cut decision is entitled to structural assistance '. We had a look at it. Where the scheme fell down a little bit was that the person who established that industry did not want to auction his plant. He did not want to sell. He thought that perhaps there might be happier days in the future and that something he had given his life to build and which was employing people might be able to operate again, so he did not want to auction his plant. Anyway, what was the good of doing that? Who in that depressed industry would want to buy it? So he asked me what he could do and I have passed on to the Department of Manufacturing Industry a query about the structural assistance that is offered to industries affected by tariff schemes. I have asked: When a man desires to start again and feels that by doing so he will provide employment and productivity that he provided previously, what happens to the plant and the vehicles that he has on lease? 
This is a problem and I hope that the Department is looking at it. A lot of machinery is on lease and a lot of the vehicles are on lease. The lessees do not want to sell them. They are not saleable. They may not in the future be able to operate them again, but they have lease payments to meet. Where do they stand? Is there any room in the structural assistance scheme for these people to meet the lease payments? If not, it is deficient. I hope the Minister can give me an answer because I have not been able to get one. 
I endorse what was said by the honourable member for Berowra. I refer again to some very wise words that he spoke in this House on 9 April 1974 on the Customs Tariff Validation Bill. These words were prophetic, were they not? He said: 
What I think is essential to Australian secondary industry is a clear understanding of the Government's policies in respect of tariffs. One fears that the tariff pressure and the uncertainty to which I have referred are pan and parcel of the veritable onslaught by this Government on secondary industry. 
That has been the problem. One Budget destroys confidence and another one stimulates it a bit and another destroys it again. We have a remarkable see-saw and I acknowledge that is so. But business confidence needs restoring. I appeal to the Government to take not just part of what the Opposition has been saying in an isolated fashion. These ad hoc decisions- this up and down business- have not led us anywhere except to such headlines as we see in this evening's newspapers. Business confidence does need restoring. It has been hit by excise payments, revaluation and now at least the Government has listened to my friend from Berowra and has devalued, although it was a little late. 
Business confidence needs restoring because business has faced a wages and prices explosion and a credit squeeze. It took the Government a long time to admit that there was such a squeeze. Business lost liquidity and that causes a failure in business confidence. Interest rates have soared. Business is fairly resilient; there is no doubt about it. But I appeal to the Government to be sincere about this matter because it will be effective in reducing unemployment and in making inroads into inflation. It is the story of productivity. That surely is the key to this whole issue. Therefore, we must look to the restoration of business confidence. I close my remarks with the appeal that was made by the honourable member for Berowra. Surely we can make that appeal again. This is what business is saying: "Time is catching up on this Government and it is time for a clear statement of its tariff objectives and for a removal of the uncertainties under which industry has to operate '. 
The Opposition will not oppose or obstruct these Bills. It is most necessary that they be introduced and implemented immediately. Their validation takes place some considerable time later. Of course nobody should try to defeat Bills which have operated for a long time because there would be chaos if they were defeated. Therefore, we are not opposing or obstructing the Bills. Much of what I proposed to say the honourable member for Berowra has said. We have put these points to the Government. I hope that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry can help me with the inquiry I raised because I should like to send the answer back to my electorate tomorrow. 
-The Customs Bill (No. 2) implements 2 amendments of consequence. The second reading speech of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  indicated these quite clearly. I comment first on the second of the amendments. Actually, this Bill and these amendments follow a High Court ruling in what has become known as, I think, the Sarah Coventry case. This case relates to duty payable on goods imported into Australia and the value of those goods for the purpose of levying duty. The basis of valuation has always been that the value of the goods shall be that at which such goods would be sold or offered for sale in their country of origin. Where such goods were not sold or offered for sale in their country of origin or where no basis of such value could be readily ascertained, a construction or some ministerial discretion has operated. This has always been so. However, as a result of this High Court decision this procedure would be disallowed and the basis of valuation would thus have to be the price which was charged to the importer by the exporter. If the importer happened to be a subsidiary of the exporter or if there was some association or special arrangement between buyer and seller, this could conceivably alter considerably the rate of duty charged. Thus the purpose of this Bill is to validate the procedure which has long operated and to give some discretion to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  where such conditions operate. 
I have been approached by people who have said that it is always dangerous to give discretion to the Minister. I suppose this is a matter that is always controversial. I believe that where a Minister does have discretion in such cases as these he ought to build up some sort of case history of decisions that he has made. This at least would give industry some basis on which it could reasonably make some judgment. We accept that this was the position which operated under our own governments, and that it has operated since. The Bill contains some retrospectivity but at the moment that applies merely to a short period because there was no retrospectivity the night that it was introduced. The retrospectivity has operated only for the period since the introduction of the Bill. That is how far back it goes. I would like the Minister to assure us that retrospectivity will not operate in other ways. I would like him to assure us that it would not go back for a very long period so that the valuation for duty on a certain item could be brought up a long time after the decision was made. I would think that the retrospectivity should not go back beyond 12 months if such a decision were necessary. 
I thank the Minister in the other place,  Senator Murphy,  for advising me of the intent of this Bill and of its proposed introduction in its drafting stages. We readily see its necessity and its purpose. Our own governments worked under this principle. This Bill will merely validate something that has happened for quite a long time. I welcome something else contained in the Bill. I refer to the announced review of the Australian customs valuation system. I wish to comment further on an aspect of parliamentary procedure as to how duties are legislated which, I think, is relevant to this Customs Bill that is before the House and relevant to the proposed review of the Customs Bill which the Minister has mentioned. There is always some difficulty in having sensible and meaningful debate on customs and excise duties which are levied. I say this not as a criticism because I do not know just how the positions could be altered. I say that only as an observation. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise has offered me every facility in my capacity as the shadow minister and except for his refusal to give any details of Australian publications which are in receipt of the book bounty, he has generally given me most of the information that I have requested. But customs Bills which levy new imposts or implement changed duty rates are traditionally introduced into this chamber late in the afternoon. That is at the end of the day's trading and this procedure is necessary to prevent any unscrupulous profiteering out of any changes. The changes are also kept under the greatest confidentiality until their announcement and they operate then from the very next morning. Thus, in my capacity I am not, and I concede possibly I should not be, given any notice until the announcement is made and then we can only seek an adjournment of the debate. It is usually not for some months that any validation is made and debate is called on. Thus, even if the duties are quite unappreciated by the Opposition- if we do not approve of them at all- they have, in fact, been operative and collections often made for some considerable time even before any debate occurs in this House. Because of the obvious impossibility of reversing every transaction, the Opposition has no real course but to allow the validation. It could not responsibly nor reasonably do anything else. This is not confined to the practices of this Government; it has always been so. Perhaps it cannot be done in any other way. But I feel the observation is valid. It creates that unfortunate position and the system renders debate on these types of Bill somewhat- ineffective because we are talking about excise and duties that have been levied and changed quite some considerable time before. 
The other amendment which is proposed by this Bill is related to the qualifying criteria for goods partly manufactured in New Zealand. This is a result of an agreement between the New Zealand and Australian Governments. The 3 alternative qualifying criteria were enumerated by the Minister. The first is that not less than one half of the factory cost is to be represented by New Zealand and/or Australian labour and materials; the second is that for goods of a class or kind not manufactured in Australia not less than one-quarter of the factory cost is represented by New Zealand and/or Australian labour and materials; and the third is that not less than three-quarters of the factory cost is represented by New Zealand and/or Australian and/or United Kingdom labour and materials. The first remains unaltered and that is quite clear. The second, which is the basis of this amendment, allows the Minister to vary this criterion as he deems appropriate. Thus, again, it is not really within the province of the Opposition to obstruct such amendments because they are obviously the subject of inter-governmental discussion involving both Australia and New Zealand. 
Perhaps the Minister might consider the observation and the implementation of the legislative process relative to customs and excise duties. Perhaps he could make them the subject of his thought and perhaps members of the Opposition could too because it would make such debate more meaningful if we were talking about excise duties and customs duties at about the time they were implemented. At least if the validation procedure followed more closely on the particular statement by the Minister in this House we could have a more relevant debate and the Opposition could make observations which were more pointed and not outdated. I know that the Government when in Opposition would have struck the same difficulty. I do not have the answer but perhaps together we might find it if we try. 
Also relative to the Customs Bill which we are now discussing, I was very interested to read another announcement today that there will be a tightening of admission of goods into Australia under the by-law system. Of course, under the 
Act goods allowed in under by-law are allowed in duty free or at reduced duty. I was very pleased indeed, after many representations on behalf of the citrus growers, to learn that citrus juice is not going to be allowed in under by-law. A request was made to allow a tremendous quantity of citrus juice to come in under that by-law. That is the content of the Bill and the purpose of the amendments. The Opposition does not oppose the amendments and has no wish to obstruct the passage of the Bill. Therefore, it intends to vote for the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-We are dealing with the Income Tax Bill 1974. This is a very bad Bill and the amendment which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has moved and I have seconded is an appropriate expression of condemnation which has the full endorsement of the Australian Country Party. I note the statement of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  that he is an evangelist for a wealth tax. That does not surprise me, but it does disgust me. The first point I want to take up concerns the levying of a new tax, this super tax, on income from property. Despite what the honourable member for Gellibrand might have read in the book from which he quoted I believe that, if there is an example of the classic stupidity of this Government, the levying of a surcharge on income from property would be it. 
Let it be clearly understood what the Government is saying by this measure and by the imposition of this tax. It is saying that investment is not wanted, thrift must be discouraged and saving is immoral. That is precisely what this measure proclaims. Despite the Caucus manoeuvres and the unbelievable shilly-shallying by the Government let it be understood that this impost will hit savagely the homes savings accounts of young couples saving for homes and it will destroy the endeavours of many senior citizens who, throughout their lifetime, have established investments to provide them with income in retirement, freeing them from dependence on the Government for handouts and providing them with such things as a decent burial. For all the pious promises of the Government, this provision makes it shameful to have been so prudent. 
This Government, in a grandiose fashion, spruiks about business confidence and the growth of productivity, but how does it achieve it? First of all it has destroyed all the incentive to investment. Surely it must understand that expansion and business operations are dependent on ability to attract investment. That shows the sham of the Government's latest facade of interest in business, because it has set out to destroy the incentive to invest. It has created a climate which has destroyed multitudes of businesses and thrown their employees into the scrap heap of unemployment. Now it has said that investment in Australia's industry and business is immoral and must be penalised. That is what this Bill means. It illustrates the futility of hoping that the Government might have modified its attitude. This measure caused the nonsensical situation in this House where we saw the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Treasury overruled. Then the man who is now the Treasurerdesignate imposed his view and the views of the other pseudo-Treasurers with him on the front bench. Finally Caucus got into a tangle of dismay and confusion and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  came into the House to announce that Caucus had taken over. He solemnly told us of the latest amendment, although he got it all wrong because he confused net income and taxable income when he made his solemn announcement. Now here it is- a Bill presented to us by a Government which has made a mess and muddle of it and is trying to bluster through. We heard again today that the Bill soaks the rich but the Government has found that it does no such thing. It has amended it to attempt to allay the trade union credit societies and pensioner investors but the Government has not succeeded even in that regard. This is the type of performance and type of legislation we can expect from left wing disdain for enterprise and a Cabinet of budding self-styled Treasurers who act on an ad hoc basis. They show panic and make ill-advised changes after every public opinion poll appears in the Press. 
We believe, and we have stated unequivocally, that we will not tolerate destruction of confidence, initiative, enterprise and investment. These are the things which generate employment. Honourable members opposite should remember that the private sector, despised though it may be, still provides 75 per cent of the employment in Australia. These things are basic to a sound economy. We will not perpetuate this vicious tax when we return to office. We will remove it and will restore the trust and confidence which this Government has virtually destroyed. For good measure, we will not be looking at further imposts like a wealth tax. 
I turn to another clause wherein we see the monumental insincerity of the Government in relation to companies, because it has presided over the rape of the family company. It has destroyed many such companies with its credit squeeze. It has destroyed their liquidity with the totally inopportune introduction of quarterly taxation assessments in a time of a credit squeeze and very tight liquidity. It has raised their rate of taxation to equity with public companies; yet it persists in imposing upon private companies an additional tax on undistributed profits. How on earth, in the present economic climate, can a government persist with this attitude when it penalises any creation of funds to ride through a liquidity crisis, to insure against a credit squeeze, to provide for expansion and to provide for plant and equipment replacement at a time when rapidly escalating costs make replacement all the more difficult just cannot be comprehended. 
The Government says that it is bringing public companies and private companies to equality. It will not be doing that while it keeps upon private companies this imposition which does not apply to public companies. As it is the profits of a company are taxed before dividends are distributed and the dividends are taxed then again in the hands of the recipients. Furthermore a new super tax is levied on those dividends. We find also that when provisional tax is being levied the super tax is also going to be levied in the assessment of the provisional tax. So do not tell me that the present Government is not committed to the destruction of private or family companies and do not tell me that it is concerned about the productivity they attain or the employment they provide. It is perfectly clear that private companies are planned for annihilation. 
Some reduction in the rates of income tax is provided for in this Bill. With Government revenue being rapidly bloated because of an inflation rate of 25 per cent or more, these cuts are totally insufficient and have come far too late. The average wage earner will still pay more aggregate tax on his earnings in the coming year. If they were associated with comparable reductions in the Government's prodigal spending spree and perhaps if we had one less Prime Ministerial overseas jaunt we might concede that there was some sincerity in this move. But the unions know that in this measure the Government has shown no lead or need for restraint. They know that this is an insufficient gesture, a dishonest gesture, which will make almost no impact upon their struggle to relate wages to prices, taxation and the rate of inflation. 
If the Government does not know it now its supporters will soon find out when they address meetings of the trade unions over the Christmas recess because they will impress nobody with the ballyhoo that we have heard so often from them in this House. I guess that they feel far from happy and comfortable about the royal edict of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to go forth and explain the situation to the unionists. I am glad that they will be doing it and not me. I would want something better and more constructive to sell than these shabby goods, this sort of confidence trick. When honourable members opposite go before the unionists they should tell them the truth, that is, that there may be some rate of reduction but they will, in this mad economic climate of inflation, inevitably pay greater aggregate tax. 
Let us look at the so-called reductions. In actual fact the marginal rate of tax has been increased in the range from $6,000 to $11,000 per annum. For each additional dollar over $6,000 to $7,000 per annum the marginal rate of tax has gone from 38c to 44c- in fact, a 16 per cent increase in taxation. As the average wage is now somewhere around $130 a week, which is this area, it will give no encouragement to work harder if the tax rates are in fact higher, because between $6,000 and $11,000 per annum there has been an increase. 
This so-called reduction in rates is a remarkable somersault. It is the same move as the Government described as economic vandalism. Australians will remember how in late April of this year the Prime Minister, in solemn voice and with that confidential, condescending air of omniscience that we know so well, derided the Opposition as being totally unworthy of trust for such a puerile notion. But now we have it before us and the Prime Minister is singing a different song. He is now saying what a great move it was and how brilliant he was to have thought of it. Again he is courting popularity and seizing on what he hopes might bring him votes. That is the summation of the Government's economic policy. But he knows that he has not done what must be done. He has done nothing about Government expenditure, except to increase it further. He wants popularity without any responsibility. He cannot get it. That is another reason for the total destruction of the credibility of the worst and most disastrous Government Australia has ever known. This was a bribe. It is totally inadequate. It is a totally insufficient measure of a reduction which is not a reduction for most people. It will be seen by all as the most miserable confidence trick one could ever imagine. That is just what it is. 
The other main thrust of this Bill is the further inroad it makes into the age rebate. The Government has deferred- consigned to limbo- the promised further removal of the means test; yet the age rebate is still being phased down. How happy the older people must be. The promises about the removal of the means test have been shelved, forgotten, deferred, but the promise about a reduction in the age rebate has not been shelved, forgotten or deferred because it is referred to in this Bill. That shows how much the 
Government really cares about the aged and that shows how reliable its promise was that it would remove the means test. The Government said that it would do so because such a promise is contained in the Opposition's platform and the Government knew that the Opposition intended to keep its promise and its contract. So the Government also came out with the words, but the promise has not been kept. We can see the worth of yet another Labor promise. We can see just how much it now cares for the aged because the reduction in the age rebate has not been forgotten, not been overlooked- it is referred to in this Bill. That is another reason why the Government is despised, why it is discredited and why it has no reason to expect trust or respect from anyone anywhere. 
The Treasurer has summarised the contents of the Bill on page 2 of his explanatory memorandum. I will use his headings to point out what the Bill is all about. This is the way in which the Treasurer's own summary sets out the situation: Firstly, a confidence trick has been played in relation to the so-called cuts in income tax which return a minute portion of the inflationary bonanza; secondly, a disastrous super tax has been imposed on income from property- the demise of all incentive to productivity, to the management of our unemployment problem which is the sort of disastrous policy that directly contributes to unemployment; thirdly, a further reduction in the age rebate; and, fourthly, the rape of family companies. That is what this Bill is all about. It is a miserable Bill. It is a wicked Bill. It is a fitting epitaph for a Government which is unfit to govern. That is why I support the amendment moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
-I intend to speak to the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1974 and the other related Bills. I may touch for a moment on the Estate Duty Assessment Bill 1974. In speaking to income tax Bills, I adopt the philosophy that the most fair and equitable form of taxation is direct income tax. We should have a tax scale which is flexible enough to enable adjustments to be made for the distortions that are due to inflation and which is able to be adjusted or rescheduled as quickly and as frequently as is needed. I think that is far better than a system of indirect taxation as the adjustments to the rates of such a system are fraught with danger in unstable or inflationary periods. I wonder whether the Government has yet learned that lesson. In speaking to the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  introduced the Bill in these words: 
This Bill will give effect to taxation proposals announced in the Budget Speech - 
I ask: Which Budget? Whose Budget? As we look at the impermanency of the Budget and its offspring we wonder indeed how enduring even this legislation will be. What an opening he gave when he said that the rebate for low income earners entitled to concessional deductions for dependants is one feature of the legislation. Then he went on to slash savagely one of the most important valuable concessional deductions in the tax Act. We have this classically vicious proposal in clauses 15 and 16 of the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) which provide that the maximum education deduction of $400 a year is to be reduced to $150. Let the people of Australia clearly see that those supporters of the Government who are peddling the propaganda around their electorates that they are not in favour of this move and have spoken in this place against it will sit on the Government side in complete unanimity and will vote to support this Bill when a vote is taken. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  has told us in Queensland recently how unhappy he is about this part of the Bill. But he and his colleagues have no intention of crossing the floor to vote against it despite their clucks of sympathy in their electorates. We will give honourable members opposite a chance to prove that this is not the case when we call a division on our amendment. 
At whom is this barb aimed? It is aimed not at the mythical Midases of society but at every parent who has a child at any school, private or government, anywhere in Australia. Can any supporter of the Government assert with any truth at all that with the possible exception of a few of the preparatory grades, $150 will go anywhere near covering the educational expenses in a year for a child at primary or secondary school? The Government which makes a fetish of education and which claims to spend record millions has in a penny pinching, scrooge-like, vicious and petty action penalised every parent of every school pupil in Australia. Despite the Minister's remote area allowance, this is a very definite thrust against remote area children, because there are no secondary schools or primary schools in many isolated areas and as a result children have to be sent to city-based private schools. How on earth can this Government show a scintilla of evidence of sympathy for these country people when it limits their annual tax deductibility for education to a miserable $150? This amount of money will hardly buy their pencils. It is a drop in the ocean. 
In clause 17 we see the Government desperately and fruitlessly striving to salvage its credibility in the field of housing. The Government which told us so solemnly how home ownership was at the top of its priorities has set about demolishing the home savings grant, escalating interest prohibitively, insisting that most of the money provided for housing commission homes be used for rental homes and by its total incapacity to manage our country has made no move to prevent land and building costs from rising to levels which made the prospect of building a home unthinkable. Does the Government now think it is fooling anybody? It has forced people into rented homes. Despite its red herrings there is no tax deduction for rental payments. 
The Government now imagines that this measure, limited and insufficient as it is, to give some deductibility for interest payments will be gullibly or readily accepted. Will it make one cent of difference to the monthly repayments which our young home owners have to face up to each month and which have grown alarmingly because of the Government's jacking up of interest rates? Will it make one infinitesimal bit of difference to those who are trying to make home repayments out of unemployment relief? I believe that the Government's credibility is shot to pieces and this shabby and dishonest endeavour to redeem itself will be recognised immediately for what it is-an end of the year rebate. It will not help people much each month to make for increasing home repayments which must be met. 
This is a shabby and dishonest endeavour to salvage a lost reputation and to excuse the abrogation of specific promises. I reaffirm that the legislation does not reduce interest rates as the Government promised when it bid and bribed for office; it does not hide the fact that interest rates went up astronomically, and not down as it promised; it does not do one thing to reduce interest and principal housing repayments which have increased almost beyond imagination; it will not give one more Australian a home; and its exaggerated presentation and this premiere do not make it excusable as a redemption of the promises which the Government has callously broken. 
Clause 19 of the Bill relates to life assurance companies. This clause will most certainly ensure that premiums on new policies will be higher and that bonuses will be reduced. I suppose that this is consistent with the Government's ideology that provision for the future is immoral and we should be willing to settle for dependence on a socialist state. This move will most certainly very seriously discourage investment in life assurance. It will also reduce the investment which life assurance companies can make in local government loan programs and the like. Local government which is supposed to live in Utopia under this Government in most cases cannot anywhere nearly obtain its loan moneys now. That is how sound the thinking of this Government is and that is the measure of the stupidity of measures such as the legislation we have before us which is a shortsighted sally against the despised life assurance companies which a Labor government proposed to nationalise after it had finished with the banks in 1948-49. So the Labor Party's hatred has not yet subsided. Its intentions are really no different but its methods of achievement have been subtly altered. The rate of deduction on calculated liabilities was reduced last year from 3 per cent to 2 per cent. This year it has been reduced from 2 per cent to 1 per cent. Next year probably there will be no deduction at all. If this is the case, the life assurance companies will have no option but to make the premiums on new policies higher and slash bonuses. They will have less surplus for assisting in government, semi-government and local government programs. What a Government this is, obsessed with myths of privileged classes and with a blind unreasoning hatred of business, thrift and private initiative. 
Clause 46 is another clause on which I believe the Government should be very seriously reprimanded. If we read the explanatory notes and the Bill we find that not only is there to be a surcharge on income from property, about which I spoke previously and which I have condemned, but also the clause means that when provisional tax is assessed it too will be calculated even to include a provisional surcharge. Not a cent must escape this Government to provide the means to continue the most reckless, wasteful, prodigal spending bonanza that we have ever known in our history. Provisional tax is difficult enough. It poses real problems in times of credit squeezes and liquidity crises. But when provisional tax also includes penalty surcharges in advance we have certainly good reason to denounce this clause. 
There are many things in the Bills about which I would like to talk. However, I know that there are other members who want to take part in this debate. The Bills contain measures dealing with fringe benefits and expense allowances. They contain a lot that is bad and a lot that is good. Some of the provisions are very reasonable and would receive our support but some have been improperly and imperfectly thought through. There is much that is difficult to discuss in a short period. The Bills are voluminous and technical. The second reading speeches made by the Treasurer cover them very incompletely and partially. Also, the time allowed for perusal and study has been rather short. In a speech such as this there is not great opportunity to discuss points on which there could be some agreement. I am pleased that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  voiced approval and support for a number of measures contained in the Bills. But we have not had much time to do other than point out what is bad and discriminatory. 
I want to make one other comment before I give way to another speaker, and this relates to the Estate Duty Assessment Act 1974. Of course I welcome the further relief provided in this Bill and of course I support any reduction in this area. However- and I exempt no government from this, either past or present- the sooner this pernicious, callous, heartbreaking, immoral imposition of death and estate duties is completely abolished the better. I suspect that the collection costs absorb a substantial part of their revenue benefit anyway. I suspect that it would need very little rise in direct income tax to provide the revenue that these taxes provide. Their abolition would remove the heartbreak and the worry that so many people experience because of these pernicious taxes. 
These sorts of taxes destroy incentive and when they are associated with a capital gains tax they will exacerbate the problems and the worries. The family business and the family farm will be destroyed under such taxes as these. They erode the provisions that have been made for widows and dependants who have been deprived of a bread winner. They invite all conceivable sorts of ruses to dissipate assets before death. They freeze funds and they make sustenance in many cases unavailable to families. They create hardship, misery and even total lack of funds for provisions, in many cases for people who are unable to understand, who are totally inexperienced and who are already suffering the sorrow and insecurity of death. So often the only people who benefit from these taxes are the Treasury and the legal people who administer the estate. Therefore I welcome any easing of these duties, which is a carry on from the policy of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government which was committed to the abolition of these duties as quickly as possible. Each one of the Budgets brought down in the last years of the Liberal-Country Party Government showed a progressive reduction in this duty. 
I hope the Minister is taking copious notes. He had the privilege of replacing the Treasurer on the last occasion I spoke. I hope he has brought his pencil, because these are words of wisdom. I am condemning these taxes; I am not supporting them, no matter who imposes them. I say that the previous LiberalCountry Party Government was committed to the abolition of these taxes, and I think the Minister should concede that in the last Budgets brought down by that government there were reductions. If the Minister had listened he would have known that I was commending the Government for continuing those reductions and I was appealing to the Minister to take heed of the fact that I and my Party are committed to the progressive and complete abolition of these taxes. I would commend to the Minister that the Government commit itself to that same very worthy objective. 
I will not say more on the Bills. There are a number of them and they are very copious. I know that the time for debate is limited and I know that other speakers want to take part in the debate. But I support the amendment which was proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  and which I seconded. 1 believe it points out very explicitly and very clearly those things, particularly in the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2), to which the Opposition takes great exception. 
I am happy to see that there are 2 Ministers in the House because, despite their crusty exteriors, I believe that they are men of compassion, and what I have to say today is not political. In recent years we have become more aware of our responsibility to the Australian men and women and boys and girls who live with a physical disability or handicap. We have seen too the splendid endeavours by many organisations and service clubs to make a contribution to their welfare. We realise at last that physical handicap does not disqualify people from living a full life. They can, if given the opportunity, make a very real and valuable contribution to our Australian way of life, sometimes more than the ordinary person can. I have therefore been very pleased indeed to learn of a very special endeavour made by Quota clubs in my area in the very neglected field of assistance to the deaf. I have a very serious observation to make which I do not believe is always appreciated, and I do hope that the House will appreciate it. I do not want to compare the various disabilities and attempt to define which one would be the cruellest and the worst. They are all tragedies; we know of the tragedy of blindness which instantly and properly claims our sympathy and our desire to help those who are afflicted. But can I compare that with the usual general attitude towards deafness? There is no greater loneliness, there is no greater solitude than that great silent and unfriendly world in which the deaf must live. I say unfriendly very advisedly. Have you noted that even though people are kind towards other handicapped people they are not so towards the deaf ? Do you notice that deafness and hardness of hearing are often the butt of so many jokes? 
I have compassion,  Mr Minister.  There is a lot of hurt done to this particular group of people because of their deafness. We have heard a multitude of jokes, have we not, about the deaf and about those who are hard of hearing, but not so about other handicapped people. Have you noticed too how impatient people become with the deaf? Because communication is difficult, because it requires some patience and some understanding, people turn away impatiently and ignore the deaf. They leave them in their isolation. That, of course, is why the deaf seek each other's company, because no one else really wants them. I speak from experience- a very close experience- because I have a son who is totally deaf, yet he is a fully qualified carpenter and builder employed by the Queensland Department of Works. He is the equal of any with whom he works. Indeed, this should indicate that the deaf have the physical capacity to equal other persons. Their work is usually more thorough and it is better because they give their attention to it and they are not easily distracted. 
However, some of us know only too well that many employers are not willing to give them work. There are so many fields in which deaf people could contribute so much which are closed to them. This is a fact of life. It is sad and it is unfortunate. I do not condemn it because it is very often due to misunderstanding, but so often deafness is treated like a disease and the afflicted are ignored. They are excluded from the things that we enjoy. They are excluded from normal conversation and the jollity on so many occasions. They are patronised and their company is just not sought, yet this is a loneliness and ostracisation that really very few people understand. 
So it is that I so highly commend this project of the Quota clubs. I have commended this project to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  I would commend it to the Government. I would indeed commend it to anyone who can exercise influence in this field because it is for the sake of these very many lonely and neglected Australians. I hope I can explain why this project should and must be implemented. The deaf can watch television. They can see a film. They cannot hear a radio, music or the sounds of nature. They can see, but unless someone is there to give them a sign commentary the television news, the program or the film has no meaning, yet they have the same interest as other Australians. About once a year a program, usually a short one of about 15 minutes or so, for the deaf may be shown with captions or some sign language displayed on the screen. How their eyes shine on those rare occasions when they can not only see but they can also understand. Quota is making an appeal for captions or some accompanying visible commentary during television news broadcasts, documentaries and at least some television programs, because these people too are vitally interested in the news, in documentaries and in other programs in which we are interested. Is it too much to ask that we consider this appeal? 
In this country we have done almost nothing but shrug off these people, yet in time of tragedy when they meet someone who is suffering or is sad-have honourable members ever noticed- I have never seen anyone so spontaneously sympathetic and generous in their love as are the deaf. In times like the Darwin appeal and others their response and their sympathy are outstanding. They seem to give this greater measure of love and sympathy to those in distress than almost any other section of the community. They give so much and they have so much to give, yet our reaction so often is to reject them and to turn them away, leaving them to their own devices to battle on in the best way they can- out of sight, out of mind. They do not want patronage and they do not want to be put away with a kind word and an invalid pension. They just want a chance, and very rarely do they get it. They will work as hard as any person if they are given the opportunity to show their ability. 
I ask honourable members: Is there any more admirable project than this of the Quota clubs? In an age when we can devise magnificent computers and send men to the moon, cannot we provide a simple system of captions or signs for our television programs and, hopefully, eventually in some films to aid people who are deaf. The adoption of such a system would not inconvenience anyone who can hear, yet it would mean the whole world to these people. Colour television is prettier and more eye-catching but to the deaf it is just as silent. It is still a picture which communicates absolutely nothing about its meaning. A big screen or a small screen, what is the difference- there is still silence and there is still no message. Do we care and do we begin to understand. The answer is not a hearing aid or that old ear trumpet that is the butt of so many jokes. They are of no help to many people. If there is no hearing then no matter how loud the sound it is still not heard. 
This is not just another speech for the Hansard record, I would hope. It is an appeal from many fine, wonderful Australians- men and women and boys and girls- to include them in our appreciation of television and perhaps films. We can be very deaf to that appeal. Do we care enough to get in behind this humane and very necessary project? It should not be beyond our capacity. It should not be beyond our compassion. The joy and the satisfaction this would give, the new meaning it would give to so many lonely lives would be one of the finest achievements to which we could aspire. I hope that the Minister will respond. I hope that the Government will respond. Indeed I hope that we will all respond because if we do not we are going to stand condemmed and all our talk about human rights and quality of life will be just so much useless and meaningless waffle. 
-Last week in this House during question time we witnessed what I regard as perhaps one of the most vicious, unscrupulous and unprincipled performances that we have seen in an Australian Parliament.  Mr Speaker,  you have rightly and frequently ruled that you have no control over the way in which Ministers answer questions, the length of time they take or even whether they answer them and you have rightly ruled that in making personal explanations there can be no debate or counter charge. Nor is it possible for the Opposition to receive leave to make statements or to table statutory declarations when the Government determines that leave will not be granted. Knowing this, knowing that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  had no opportunity to defend himself under the Standing Orders, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  boots and all, kicked out in a savage attack because he could not and would not answer a question which exposed the depths of confusion and disgrace to which this Government has fallen. 
He ignored the question and from his lofty perch he lashed out at a man who has discomfitted and exposed him, first making sure that the Leader of the Opposition could not answer back. If he did try to answer, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  as is his wont, would run back and forth to the table raising points of order. The Prime Minister knew full well that the media representatives, who seem to attend in any numbers only at question time, would almost unanimously hail this as a splendid victory. Those lofty immortal phrases he uses such as 'Ga ga', 'boo', 'moo', and I think even 'hoo-ha' show his remarkable articulate ability, do they not? So sensitive is he that he objects to the word 'stuffed'. But just look at Hansard and see the endearing terms he used in this House against the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  I shall not sully my tongue repeating them. They were never withdrawn. Yet in the greatest whine that we have ever heard in this nation he cried: 'Give us a go'. What tremendous justification he of all men nas to ask for fair play. 
There is hardly a convention- ask any State one likes- which this Government has not broken. Yet the Prime Minister attacked the Premier of New South Wales for not holding sacred what the Prime Minister regards as a convention. The engineer of the grubbiest political trick in history- the Gair incident- the man who himself created the present Senate vacancy and the problem, on a Sunday night telecast to Australia knowing full well that  Mr Lewis  would not have the facilities to reply nationally on television. Yet the Prime Minister has the temerity to accuse  Mr Lewis  of questionable tactics. Our Prime Minister appeals for a fair go- a fair go for himself- but he does not consider that he should give everybody else a fair go, or even our nation. 
Let the Prime Minister's own leadership be examined because, after all, he criticises the leadership of others. Take the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation raids, the midnight intrusions into the homes in Sydney with Commonwealth police everywhere. The Prime Minister led by diving under the first table he could find when the pressure was on. There is the Morossi affair, on which I do not want to make any comment. The Prime Minister ridiculed the Leader of the Opposition as having no control over his organisation. He himself says that he cannot interfere with the actions of his Ministers in staff appointments. When the members of his Cabinet disgracefully attacked the United States and the  President  of the United States the Prime Minister said that he alone in future would make statements on foreign affairs. But his Ministers gave him the great raspberry and in effect they said they would say what they like when they like. So again he dived under the first table he could find. That is splendid leadership. 
Then on his great white horse he went to Queensland to demonstrate his superiority and righteousness over the Premier of Queensland. What a remarkable display of leadership this was. When he went to Queensland the Australian Labor Party had 36 members in the Queensland Parliament. When he left it had 1 1 and some of those were successful by a mere whisker. Was it not  Mr Egerton  who described the Prime Minister as pig-headed? Poor old Percy Tucker was the scapegoat. In the recent Hobart tragedy when the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  rightly and quickly arranged a full inquiry, the Prime Minister from the midst of some ancient ruins on the other side of the world needed no visit, no inquiry, no information, no commission, to attack what he called irresponsible sea captains and air pilots. The great god, Zeus, has long disappeared from his pedestal in the ruins of the temple, but in great modesty and self-effacement- so the Press reportsour Prime Minister, reluctantly I am sure, sought out the empty pedestal and stood majestically where Zeus stood on that pedestal and the whole world rejoiced. 
He has continually said that all of our problems come from overseas. With the greatest consistency he has travelled to all corners of the world to make the closest possible examination of everyone else's problems. 'There will be no unemployment here', he said. The Minister for Labor and Immigration tried quietly to warn him.  His  record is that of leader of the nation at a time of the most savage uncontrolled unemployment in our history. He said that he had control over inflation- and we are eclipsing all records. I wish he would include New Zealand in his itinerary because there is no unemployment there and after all that is the most comparable nation of all to Australia. He pooh-poohed all Opposition advice yet he is so busy producing budgets and reversing announcements he is stuck in reverse gear. When one is in reverse one cannot see which way one is going. He said to reduce taxes was economic vandalism. Now he boasts of his perspicacity in reducing taxation. 'What nonsense' he said, 'to defer government expenditure '. Yet with a stroke of real genius he now announces that he has discovered the necessity for deferrals in government expenditure. Mind you, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and each other Minister one by one tell us that the cuts are not to be in their departments and that they will spend much much more. 
He said: 'A capital gains tax is the answer.' Well, perhaps not. Well, perhaps a tax on unearned income. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  objected so the Prime Minister thought 'perhaps later.' He said, 'Take off the superphosphate bounty and be damned.' Well, perhaps the Industries Assistance Commission had better have a look at that some time. We will get rid of the means test.' Well, perhaps that had better be deferred to some time in the future. 'Whack up company tax. ' Well, it was not a bad thought at the time.  'Mr Crean  is a fine Treasurer; he will be retained.'  Dr Cairns  insists so Frank had better go to Trade after all. 'We will have a wonderfully responsible selfgoverning Assembly in the Northern Territory. But the Country Party is in control there. We had better wait a while until we get a member in the Assembly. ' He said 'I shall tell the United Nations how we will fill the food needs of the hungry world. Who needs the beef industry anyhow? My unions will advise me as to whether Chile should get any wheat.' 
Those are some of the statements of the Prime Minister. He has made it so clear that primary producers have never had it so good. The wicked Country Party wanted to put up petrol a cent or so. It is quite irrelevant that this Government has slapped on excise of much more than few cents and has taken away the subsidy so that those fellows west of Mount Isa have to pay more than $ 1 a gallon for petrol. The wicked Country Party; a redistribution will take care of it. What a villain is the Premier of Queensland who is desperately worried about the beef industry and wants to help it. 'We will help the beef industry' says the Prime Minister. 'We will lend the producers $20m.' But they have taken up only $2m. It could not be because they cannot afford to borrow any more. It could not possibly be that they object to the generous rate of 11V4 per cent interest. Australia knows he is the greatest. He. has told us and that proves it. Why fear elections? He has only to get on to television for 5 minutes in a campaign and the electors will forget all that has happened and will realise that we have turned the corner. He said 'turned the corner', not 'been backed in to a corner'. 
What splendid justification this Prime Minister has to criticise other leaders. He does not lead his Party, his Caucus, his Government or the nation. If he showed some capacity to lead instead of being a Don Quixote tilting at windmills, he would not have to juggle Senate vacancies and engineer double dissolutions. Australia will judge him on his own shabby failure, not on the stinking red herrings he is trying to drag across the path. Let him see the handwriting that Belshazzar saw on the wall: 'You are weighed in the balances and found wanting. Your kingdom is taken from you and given to others. ' I hope Caucus and the  Deputy  Prime Minister can say boo' or 'moo' and that the Prime Minister will not go 'ga ga' with hysteria because those old words or scripture are as applicable to him today as they were to Belshazzar in his day. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  said that the honourable member for Fisher was sitting with a smile of embarrassment on his face. If he implied that I was embarrassed because the Opposition speakers exposed the conduct of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  I was grossly misrepresented, but if he meant that I was embarrassed at the depths to which parliamentary democracy descended in this House last Thursday at the hands of the Prime Minister he was correct, and I was not misrepresented. That would be the truth. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker, the Government apparently is already becoming tired and its support is dwindling. We saw evidence of this prior to the luncheon break. These Appropriation Bills are necessary at this time because of 2 considerations. Firstly, they are necessary to provide funds for the commencement of the huge job of reconstruction in devastated Darwin and also as a result of the disaster in Tasmania. But, secondly they are necessary because of the devastation brought to this country by the incompetency and gross economic mismanagement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who is more enamoured of the festivities and banquets in the glittering halls of the world than he is concerned by the empty cupboards and the bare tables in Australia, which he sometimes visits. 
The Opposition and I personally would like to pay tribute to the courage of the people of Darwin and the tremendous spirit they have shown as even amidst the ruin and devastation they have determined that Darwin will be rebuilt. We pay tribute, too, to the splendid and unselfish service of General Stretton who symbolised that courage and that determination in the very fine role he undertook. We pay the highest tribute also to our colleague,  Mr Sam  Calder, the honourable member for the Northern Territory, whose service and sacrifice in the service of the battered city of Darwin has been magnificent and has been an inspiration. My colleague, the shadow Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Katter,  was in Darwin within a few hours showing that courage and strength for which he is widely known. 
We recognise the immediate and effective role played by the Government, particularly under the direction of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and assure him that this appropriation for Darwin reconstruction has our full and complete support and will be passed without any delay. Among the appropriations for Darwin the sum of $1m was sought for finance to small businessmen enabling them to resume operations. This has our endorsement as small businessmen play such a vital and very great role in the economy and the life of every town and city. I do appeal to the Treasurer, however, to ensure that this assistance will be meaningful, not hedged about with massive delay and red tape and not negated with shocking interest rates and stiff repayment schedules. Help of this nature is of no use at all and the finance cannot be used unless interest and redemption are reasonable, fair and within reach. 
Nor does the Opposition put any impediment or delay in the way of appropriation for reconstruction in the wake of the Tasmanian bridge disaster. Unlike our omniscient Prime Minister we will await the findings of the commission of inquiry before we make any comment on the causes of the disaster. We endorse the proposed assistance to meet the huge cost of material damage which was the result. Nor do we for a moment protest at other provisions in these Bills. One provides $4m for hostel accommodation for the aged. We endorse that. It provides $4.5m for nursing homes and domicilliary nursing care for veterans. We endorse that also and these provisions will be supported. We will co-operate in expediting those provisions because the pensioners, the unemployed and so many others with no economic security are the ones who are bearing the suffering, the misery and the need which has stemmed from the unconcern and neglect of the Prime Minister who, not so long ago, was promising them Utopia. We are concerned about the survival and support of these people, although as we are well aware the Prime Minister's only concern is for his own miserable political survival. 
There is provision in these Bills for money for the Regional Employment Development scheme and the National Employment and Training scheme- which is not all that neat- and structural assistance. We will support these appropriations because if we did not we would be committing the same act of blatant betrayal and callous unconcern towards the hundreds of thousands of unemployed Australians whom this Prime Minister and his ally, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  have thrown on to the dole lines after promising so vehemently that it would not happen. Unfortunately, they will provide jobs only to about 21 000 unemployed. Our sorry  record  in Australia is that more than 300 000 Australians have lost their jobs, their security, their aspirations and their ambitions . 
These things have been destroyed because this Government and this Prime Minister are too busy prattling about elections and conventions which they do not observe anyhow, strangling the democratic parliamentary institution, manipulating Senate vacancies and piling up a lot of Socialist Bills in a double dissolution frenzy. Indeed , if it were the Prime Minister who had to bear the odium, the misery and the suffering for his autocratic actions and his miserable failures, the Government would not get this appropriation but because so many Australians have to suffer privation, misery and loss which he has caused, we are very concerned. We will pass this legislation because if the Prime Minister does not care we most certainly do. We will expedite the passage of these Bills because aready every Opposition member is being inundated with tragic complaints that service payments and unemployment benefits have not been received and delays of seven or eight weeks are occurring regularly. Almost invariably those who suffer these delays are in real need. Some are destitute. Apparently this Government and its illustrious leader who seek to take over the role and pedestal of Zeus does not care how they survive. How on earth can they buy food and the bare necessaries of life with delays like this. Thus, we will pass these Bills and pass them quickly so that we will not be a party to the cavalier treatment this Government is dishing out to so many Australians who are in such desperate need. 
The need for the RED scheme and all the others arises from the miserable bungling of this Government which regards unemployment as a mere statistic. It does not seem to understand or care that its effect is measured in broken lives, human suffering, destruction of self-respect and dignity, and even the crying of hungry children. If it did, it would not be so intent on prodigal spending sprees for its own propaganda and aggrandisement but would be seeking to alleviate the misery that it has caused. Indeed, the Prime Minister seeks to compare himself with that great Australian,  Sir Robert  Menzies. He has not the capacity or the integrity of  Sir Robert  and even the eyebrows and the hair are but a pale imitation of  Sir Robert.  But the crucial difference is that  Sir Robert  was a great leader and statesman with complete loyalty to his colleagues. The present Prime Minister, of course, is completely dissimilar in that and every other respect. 
The Treasurer's speech traversed in great detail the Darwin situation. I have noted- I record again- our recognition of his own personal, instant and energetic involvement and supervision of Darwin in the absence of the Prime Minister who was inspecting other ruins in other countries. But the Treasurer failed and continued to fail in the rest of his speech and at all times to face up to a debate on the economy. He failed, for example, to identify who is not telling the truth- the Prime Minister who now espouses what he once called economic vandalism and states that Government expenditure will be curtailed, or the Ministers who are increasing spending and who say that there will be no curtailment in their departments. Darwin and Tasmania must have the help provided in this appropriation even though it is outside the Budget. But is it not reasonable, because this need has arisen and must have top priority, that there should be an examination of lesser priorities to see where adjustments can be made to meet the Darwin needs without just increasing our already record deficit or feeding inflation? Darwin will need more. The Opposition recognises this and supports it. 
Does the Treasurer not think that this should be anticipated and planned for, and that lesser priorities might have to give way at least in the short term? After all, the Prime Minister set something of a precedent by commissioning the Coombs report which redirected priorities. That was a disaster of a report and contributed to the mess which we are in because the Government was gullible enough to swallow it whole. But if Ministers continue to trumpet forth their grandiose schemes and if the Prime Minister was just talking through his hat when he spoke of deferrals in spending - 
-No, he could not get one to fit Darwin will be left short, its reconstruction will be prolonged, and agreements and promises will be varied or deferred, as this Government is continually doing. The Opposition will support these Appropriation Bills although the Prime Minister is in a hysteria about Supply, conventions and elections. If he claims he has a mandate to govern let him begin to give leadership and let him get down to the business of governing because that is the basis on which any judgment will be made, the basis on which the people of Australia will decide. If he did, he would not have to worry about his nightmares, awaking every night in a fever of perspiration and crying out: 'Supply', 'Appropriation', 'Double dissolution'. These Appropriation Bills are urgent and necessary. The Opposition will not delay them. It will give them its full support. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Ayes.......... 62 
Noes.......... 55 
Majority....... 7 

<graphic href="093131197503050_33_5_5_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197503050_33_5_3_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197503050_33_5_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197503050_33_5_4_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="093131197503050_33_5_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Unless I am seriously provoked I will not speak for very many minutes on this legislation. Members of the Opposition have been criticised for saying that the Government is reversing much of its strategy and announcements. I think that this legislation might be another example of what the Government might call its flexible stability. The Bills before us are remarkable. They are quite without precedent in the way in which they have been drawn up. They do, of course, typify the Government's record of acting belatedly to cure a problem of its own making. Earlier today the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  very well and very clearly showed step by step where the Government was to blame and he sheeted the blame home directly to the Government. 
The Opposition will not oppose the Bills. It would appear as if some of the huge backlog of motor vehicles which have accumulated in Australian car yards might now be reduced because of the consequent decrease in prices. Of course, the car manufacturing industry has been in serious trouble for some time largely because of the previous unreasoned hatred of private enterprise and overseas investment in Australia. This was the attitude of the Government which was thereby guilty of creating considerable unemployment in the car industry. Again there might be a welcome reverse in this field. The Government would not heed any advice and it continued its policies while saying all the time that it was the only party which would prevent unemployment. Now the Government, in its usual fashion, waits for the crisis and then moves, and moves ponderously. It waits until record numbers of Australian men and women have lost their jobs and retrenchments are unavoidable and then starts to get off its tail. 
There is no foresight, no forward planning, and no concept of co-operating with and listening to industry. This Government picks up the pieces after the crash and tries to stick them together again. Unless these Bills are related to forward policy on their own they will not achieve what the Government wants them to achieve and what we hope they can achieve for the car industry in Australia. The Bills by reducing sales tax certainly will stimulate sales of cars. They will make inroads into the stocks held. This reduction and the import quotas may help in the long term to bring some sort of stability to the industry. But, unless there is some initiative and some concern, what will be the position if the stocks are cleared and manufacture starts again? Prices will go up again. Then what about the future of the industry and what about continued manufacture? The Government quite plainly has acted to clear stocks. 
We see in these Bills a very unusual procedure. I believe that it is quite without precedent. We have seen in our time Bills that have reduced sales tax. We have seen in our time Bills that have increased sales tax. But I think this legislation is unique in that it seeks to do both things. The Bill proposes that sales tax be reduced, but then from 1 May and monthly thereafter the rates are to rise again until by 1 December they are restored. It is something like the thinking behind Christmas bargain sales: 'Buy now because this offer will last for only a very short period'. Prices will rise again as sales tax increases. Of course the price must increase. I hope that we are not going to start the same old razzle dazzle again. I am rather intrigued as to why the government has produced legislation in this form. I can understand that it wants to reduce sales tax. I can understand the purpose but would it not have been better to see the effect of those sales tax cuts on the industry, to have a look at the climate and the industry itself before making the decision to increase sales tax? It makes one wonder whether the Government wants to write it all in a Bill while it can because ofthe reverses that we have seen. We have seen on a number of occasions the Government's Caucus Economic Committee running for cover and the announcements that have been made, of course, have not been proceeded with. We do welcome the cuts. We welcome this move because it will save jobs. 
We hope that these Bills are associated with forward thinking policies. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  talked a moment ago of other initiatives about which the Government is thinking. I hope that we will see in association with these Bills policy development that will give long term stability to the industry. I hope that we will not see a situation in which we will have cleared out stocks, the sales tax rises again, the number of cars in the yards increases again and jobs will be placed in jeopardy. We sincerely hope that what the Government is trying to achieve with this legislation will be achieved. We support the Bills. 
-The atmosphere and the climate in which the Family Law Bill has been debated have, in some respects, been most unfortunate. I think most honourable members, no matter what their views on this Bill may be, must be very much alarmed at the letters we have received, not so much from our own electorate but from other places, exhorting us to take a particular point of view on this Bill. They have not sought to bring the justice of their case to us, but they have done all sorts of things including denigrating the church, denigrating tradition and denigrating principle. I believe that all honourable members who have taken part in this debate have wanted the opportunity to look at this Bill because of their great concern about the divorce law legislation which has been in existence in our country. Unfortunately that aspect also has come through at times into the debate. 
Duringthedebatewehavehearddivorcelaw being opposed. We have heard some honourable members ask for a new divorce law on the basis that the divorce law that we have now is based on ecclesiastical law. That law is not all bad. The fact that it does stem from ecclesiastical law does not make it bad law. Other laws stem from the same source- laws that say that you shall not kill, you shall not steal, the laws of libel that say you shall not bear false witness. Those laws stem from ecclesiastical law. Because that is their source does not make them suspect. 
Unfortunately in the course of the debate- I do not want to identify honourable members in particular- things were said, such as the church has grown away from the doctrines that Christ taught. There was talk of the church's preoccupation with sin and other things. I do not think there is a need for these sorts of things to enter into the debate in order to justify or to condemn what we are trying to consider here today, any more than I think that a man is a Christian because he says he is. I think that to say he is a Christian is far less effective than proving that he is by the life that he leads and the way in which he treats his fellow man. I hope that is the way in which I will be judged. I am therefore sorry that these sorts of things have been said. I am also sorry that the impression has been given that if we support the amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  we will be denying the Bill a second reading. That is not so. That point has been clarified from the Chair on a number of occasions. The Minister has ensured that it will not be so because he has a contingent motion. So we can assert these principles and we can go on and give the Bill a second reading. The acceptance of the amendment will not destroy the chances of the Bill being given a second reading. 
I have even heard it said of the amendment by those who support the Bill in its entirety: 'Well, those principles are all very good but we cannot vote for them because we cannot deny the Bill a second reading'. I believe that these principles are vital and that, having been assured of the fact, by asserting again these principles we will not be denying the Bill a second reading. It is all the more reason why these things should be asserted. If we are looking at a Bill which is designed to be a family law Bill- it should be remembered that it has been called the Family Law Bill- and if we approach that Bill without having these principles established, woe betide us when we get the legislation that we are likely to get. If we approach family life and divorce, unfortunate as it is, without considering the sorts of principles to which I have referred - principles that I believe we can accept and should acceptthen I think we are on faulty ground. Therefore I believe that this House and this Parliament should create the climate in which we can consider these laws by asserting those principles which I believe are essential principles when considering matters such as this. 
I do not want to cover a lot of the ground that has been covered adequately by other speakers in the debate, but I do want to bring to mind and to emphasise one or two things. We have heard people espouse the Family Law Bill in its entirety. We have heard people say that the no fault clause is a clause that we should look to; that we should eliminate the element of fault; that we should get away from this aspect of dragging out the dirty laundry. I do not think there is any disagreement with that contention. But let us look at the practicalities of the situation. We are not saying that we are going to insert something new and something more humane into our law. We are going to add the ground of irretrievable breakdown of a marriage as another course which can be taken in the dissolution of a marriage, and if that course rather than other courses can be taken it is preferable. It could be preferable, but we are not being given that choice in this Bill; we are being given one ground and that ground is the irretrievable breakdown of marriage. 
I wish the situation was as black and white as that; I wish it was as simple as that. The Bill provides one ground and a period of separation. At the present time a marriage can be terminated if one of the parties engages in blatant adultery, cruelty, sadism, bestiality, sodomy, incest and that type of thing, but in the Bill it cannot be terminated before a certain time has elapsed. However, our present law contains the provision to end that sort of situation. But if we are to have just one ground and if we are to have a waiting period, be it one year or two years- I will be voting for at least 2 years- that sort of situation can continue. 
People tell us that we need this Bill to get rid of inhumanity, despair and distress. Yet by providing for only one ground we are perpetuating distress, despair and misery in the matrimonial home and in situations such as that if the wronged party has to wait a certain time before he or she can apply for a divorce. So I do not believe that the criticism directed at the Minister for Tourism and Recreation and those who have indicated support for his amendment is justified in that regard. The Minister did not say, and nobody else said, that we like the idea of retaining the fault aspect, that we like to see these things dragged through the courts. Of course we do not. But let us be practical. Those provisions are in the law so that situations which ought to be ended can be ended, and ended at once. They are there also because when we talk about custody, maintenance and other things there has to be some judgment as to what type of climate the children might have to live in, what type of life they will have to live and what are the circumstances under which they will be brought up. 
A judgment has to be made. Unfortunately it has to be made on the particular circumstances of the partners to the marriage that has broken. We know that these things are not the cause of the breakdown of marriage- we have heard it often enough- we know they are the results of the breakdown of marriage. It we take the course that looks attractive but the course that is not practical unfortunately the results of that breakdown can be lengthened and the misery can be lengthened, and I do not believe that we do what we ought to do in bringing humanity into this field. Therefore I believe that we ought to support the amendment. 
I stand very strongly on the basis that the family unit is the strength of any nation and any society. If we undermine and erode that unit woe betide that nation. History has shown that that is the greatest cause of the breakdown of the greatest societies. Therefore we are handling something that is very important. I believe that a matter of principle is involved in voting for this amendment. In voting for the amendment we establish the climate in which we will look at the Bill. What happens to this Bill and what comes out of all of the discussions here will emerge in the Committee stages as we look at the Bill clause by clause and amendment by amendment. Therefore I do not think it has been fair to state that those who support this amendment are trying to deny the Bill a second reading, that they are trying to perpetuate inhumanities and that they are not interested in the fact that our present law has some deficiencies which cause harm and hurt. I believe that those allegations and assertions have not been fair, nor have they been correct. 
I shall vote not for a one-year period of separation as a ground for divorce but for a 2-year separation. I think that in our divorce law reform we ought to have the provision whereby divorce can be obtained because of an irretrievable breakdown of marriage- but I do not believe that that should be the only ground. I wish it could be. I wish it were as simple as that. I wish it were as black and white as all that. But unfortunately it is not and it cannot be. That is the period of separation that I shall support. 
I do not want to take up much more time but it would be remiss of me if I failed to commend all honourable members in this House who have spoken on this Bill, no matter what side they have taken in the debate. I believe that every one of them spoke reasonably, after very deep thought, with a lot of conviction. In saying that I condemn what I read in one article- I think put out by the Divorce Law Reform Associationwhich said that this Bill did not have a hope of any sort of decent consideration in this House and that the decision was already made. This was said on the basis that there was some deferment before this debate was brought on. The reason for that deferment was simply that we were asked to vote on and to discuss a major Bill, a very important Bill, a Bill that had come from the Senate with something like 100 amendments, a Bill which we had not seen, a Bill which we could not consider in 5 minutes. This House at no time took the attitude that it wanted to put this Bill into limbo or to defer it. But not one of us would have been willing to debate the Bill without considering it, with all its clauses, and having adequate time not only to consider it but also to talk to people about it. Therefore I think that statement in a magazine was irresponsible and unfair. I think that the people who have spoken in this debate, not matter on which side they have spoken, have refuted that very ugly charge. 
-The Opposition very definitely opposes the principle of optional preferences because it is a definite inducement to accept what the Government has not been able to get the people to accept, and that is first past the post voting. I remind the Government that it has always been keen on relating the percentage of votes cast to the percentage of seats won. Many times it has been quite unfair when it has compared seats won to the percentages of votes cast. I point out to the Government what could well happen under first past the post voting and indeed optional preference voting, which is a step along the way. 
I think we have a first class example of this in Britain where we see that a Labour candidate may get 36 per cent or 37 per cent of the vote and the Liberal candidate and the Conservative candidate split the rest of the votes. In fact, 63 per cent of the electorate may vote against the Labour candidate yet because he is the first past the post he wins. If the Government were consistent it would realise that the Liberal Party, for instance, in the United Kingdom can poll millions of votes and yet win almost no seats. There is no relationship at all between the percentage of votes cast for the party and the number of seats won by it. 
That is the sort of thing that happens under first past the post voting. It is the sort of thing that would happen under optional preference voting because I believe that that is an inducement to the people to accept first past the post voting- something that has been rejected, and rejected decisively, in the past. Some States will not accept it. We could well have the situation where Commonwealth elections could be decided on the basis of first past the post or optional preference voting and State elections decided on preferential voting. Of course this system can benefit nobody but the members of the Government Party. I think they would be honest enough to admit that fact. We believe that it militates against the operation of the democratic vote and we reject it. 
-We debate these Appropriation and Supply Bills in a remarkable atmosphere. Although the Opposition does not deny them passage it must be understood that we have the gravest reservations and misgivings about the appropriations of this Government particularly when in the Parliament this week we heard the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  telling us that the Government might well proceed to go on printing masses of new money. In the same answer he indicated that this should make no contribution to inflation. The Government indicated that there would be no cutback in Government expenditure but that it could very well increase. It has said that it will honour the promise to cut taxes and that the mounting deficit will be sustained, if necessary, by uncontrolled printing of money. And the Government says that that is not inflationary! I must say that that is the queerest economics I have yet encountered. We have a very deep concern about these Appropriation and Supply Bills. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Treasurer and, I think, every  speaker  from the Government is trying to get the Opposition to do the job for them. The Government is pleading with us to tell it where to cut down its expenditure. Who on the Opposition side would not be worried when we see the extravagance and wastefulness of this Government. 
Yesterday we read in the newspaper that the cost of the upkeep of the Prime Minister's official garden is $204,000 a year. I do not know what he grows in that garden but one thing I do know is that for far too long he has been leading this nation up the garden path, or perhaps it is along the primrose path of dalliance. Would we not be worried when we read that the overseas junkets will go on. Apparently there are still some ancient ruins in Peru which, in the national interest, must be inspected. Would anybody not be worried about granting Supply when I have received undisputed evidence from a very small Commonwealth Employment Service agency that the following are some case hsitories of the clientele which regularly draws unemployment benefits. There is a Norwegian journalist from Holland who has been receiving benefits for 12 months but who now has returned to Europe after a pleasant holiday in Australia at the taxpayers' expense. An engineer-technician from New Zealand has been enjoying the seaside air since August at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. He was asked why he left his job. He said that he just wanted to change jobs; he just wanted a change. A boy from a southern State has been receiving benefits for over 6 months. When asked why he left Tasmania and his job he said that it was too cold in Tasmania. The officer asked: 'Have you looked for a job recently?' He said: 'No, why should I?' 
A man who sold his business and who is reputedly at the golf club most days, staying at the bar later than most, speaks of his benefit affectionately as his drinking money. A 6-foot, strapping man disposed of his business and lives at a beach front unit. He pay $45 a week for it and cheerfully fronts up with his forms for benefit. There is a man who states he is travelling around Australia until he finds a suitable spot to establish a new religion. There are Canadian, American, English and New Zealand itinerant girls and boys whose reason for leaving their short-term jobs is because they want to live by the surf. Some types give their address as the local surf club. Some clients deposit their benefit cheques at the same time as they deposit cheques from builders or other employers into their fat bank accounts. A cafe proprietor in the same area overheard people boasting that they were registered at different places and that they draw two or more cheques. Because this is an area where specialised and, indeed, any employment is unobtainable, it is known that shrewd sun and surf lovers in other States register for unemployment in their own State and ask for the benefit to be paid at some of the finest coastal areas in Queensland. 
There are applicants whose job requirements are listed as bookbinders, gymnastic instructors, electrical engineers and such jobs which could not possibly exist in the area. Is that why we are granting this Government Supply and Appropriation? These are actual case histories supplied to me by an agent in one very small office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I have been told, too, that the Regional Employment and Development scheme was probably the best thing that ever happened. At least some of the malingerers can be purged off the rolls. When they were advised that they were needed for a RED project a number of them stated that, coincidentally, they had just obtained a job or, coincidentally, that very day they had arranged for an appointment for an interview for a job. This is proof positive, I think that they had a job all the time and that they had been getting unemployment benefits too. Yet for how long in this House did we tell the Government that that sort of thing was going on before it belatedly admitted this? True it is that now the clamps are on. But what a shemozzle it has been. The Government asks us where it can cut Government expenditure. Extravagance and wastefulness are the mark of this Government. Why should we not be concerned at these Appropriation and Supply Bills and at the massive deficit which is the record of this Government? 
As I thumb through the speech of the Minister I come to the heading of 'Post Office'. I do not oppose the futher $127m for the Post Office to meet unavoidable cost increases, but the next sentence is intriguing. The Minister states: 
This will maintain the Post Office program at the level envisaged at Budget time. 
My word, we will not oppose that because, at all costs, we must maintain the Post Office. We certainly cannot let it deteriorate any more. In my home area which is 60 miles from Brisbane on the main highway in Queensland and on the main northern railway line, it is usual for mails to take from 3 to 7 days to traverse 60 miles or less. In some areas telephone services are absolutely abominable, yet the charges are astronomical. Even farmers find that they are now classified as businessmen and, because of this, up go their rentals to business rates. Yet, it is essential that we allow that to pass because we want to maintain what we have, shocking as it may be, for heaven help us if it deteriorates any further. 
It is in this series of Bills that an appropriation of $335m is sought for Medibank. If we are to believe the Minister we may be broke, we may be nationally bankrupt, but if we have the stamina to queue up for treatment we will at least be healthy. What concerns us so deeply when we talk of appropriation is the massive- I believe it is at least $ 1.5m- splurge of taxpayers' money for advertising by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and his Department. This has not been spent on essential information. It has been entirely a massive, indefensible political exercise. Its design is not to inform but to denigrate the health insurance funds which have served this nation so well for so long. The medical profession is rather concerned about the changes which it regards as gravely undesirable because of the doctor-patient relationship. It could be regarded as misinformation because, for all that the Minister tells us about free health care, the lack of necessity to continue insurance with a private health insurance fund and the guarantee of treatment by a doctor of the patient's choice, the answer from the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  in this House during question time this morning shows how heavily qualified those assurances really are. But those qualifications and conditions do not figure in the Department's expensive advertising campaign. Well, Medibank has already had a tremendous benefit. In fact, it has been a bonanza to radio, Press and television which have been swamped with advertising. 
This Government should realise very clearly, too, that when it talks about the food aid program which is also mentioned in the Minister's speech, that it will be able to provide nothing at all if the primary producers do not get some consideration from it. I include in this criticism the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  who got so stirred up in the House this morning. We hear a lot of rumours about his splendid speeches and heartrending pleas in Caucus, but we never see or hear him in this House which is where it counts. We never see him doing anything but supporting the anti-rural Government with his vote and his voice. We hear him mouthing the Government spiel. By doing that he condones the Government's action, no matter what he says in any other place. Nor will we be able to play any national role in providing food for hungry nations if this Government continues to undermine and to destroy our primary producers by allowing considerable imports of canned pineapples, canned mushrooms, canned mangoes, canned citrus, citrus juice concentrates, potatoes and potato products, onions, frozen fruit and vegetables and synthetic products to take the place of our passionfruit industry. That practice builds up stocks and gives processors a unique opportunity, if they want to use it, to beat down the price paid to the local producer. Then the Government says that inflation is coming down because the consumer price index is no longer rising. The reason that it is no longer rising is that food prices are falling. So once again the primary producer is the bunny. Once again he has to pay the price.  His  solvency and his right to a decent standard of living are of absolutely no concern to this Government, in spite of all its undertakings in the United Nations food aid program. 

 Mr Speaker, I would like to say much more. Unfortunately we have agreed to curtail our remarks so that other honourable members can speak in the debate. But what a Mad Hatter's party this Australian Government has become. Grandly at its head struts a Prime Minister who in this House assured us that he is the greatest, and he has a  deputy  who regards the printing press as man's greatest invention. I conclude where I began: We will give these Bills passage, but we express here, as we have expressed consistently in the past, our concern and our condemnation of the irresponsible management and incompetency of the Government which is intent on sparing no expense to retain office, even if it has to take over every printing press in the nation to keep up the supply of money. 
-The most difficult of all the Government's initiatives about which to get any information must surely be the Australian Assistance Plan. The Opposition did not oppose the Bill in either House of the Parliament when it was introduced by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the scheme was initiated. However, rumours and reports of the distribution of largesse under this scheme, the political overtones and the fact that it appears that the accounts will not even be the subject of scrutiny by the Auditor-General are extremely disquieting. However, it is not my intention to debate that matter this evening. 
Recently a meeting, convened to initiate a further extension of the Australian Assistance Plan, was held in part of my electorate. Of course, I was not advised of that meeting- the Federal member very rarely is- but I happened to find out about it. Although I could not attend it, one of my State parliamentary colleagues did attend. Apparently his attendance caused some surprise and it was evident that his presence was of some little embarrassment. However, as a result of his attendance an interesting and a very disturbing revelation came to light. Among those people addressing the meeting was one person who was called an assistant social worker. My colleague was talking to her and asked her whether she was a State social worker or whether she was employed by the Federal Government. She said that she belonged to the Federal social security service. She repeated that she was an assistant social worker and that she was working in his State electorate and in my Federal electorate doing normal social security work. But the remarkable thing was that, quite unsolicited, without any prompting, she made the statement that she works for the Australian Government and that she is being paid by Darwin relief money. Of course, the work she was doing had nothing to do with Darwin relief. My colleague questioned her about it. He said: 'That is a long way from home'. She said: 'I agree that it is'. I have here a statutory declaration made by the person to whom that statement was made. It names the person involved, but I do not intend to do that in this House. It also names the place and the time at which that statement was made. 
This morning I tried to ask a question in the House, but it was not my turn and I did not get the call. The question was to be directed to the Minister for the Northern Territory and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  and I am grateful that he has come into the chamber this evening, because it is a very serious matter; it is a very serious allegation. The question that I intended to ask is: Would the Minister be prepared to provide full details of the disposition of all Darwin relief money? How much of this money has been applied to any social security activities, to Australian Assistance Plan activities, or to any other purpose not in any way connected with Darwin relief? I stress the point that the assistant social worker did not give the advice in answer to a question or an inquiry; it was spontaneously given. It came like a bolt from the blue. It was unsolicited and it was unsought. So I ask the Minister this question: What on earth is going on? I know that there is a shortage of funds in some areas- the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  said so todaybut if Darwin relief moneys are being applied in this way it would be the greatest act of deception and dishonesty of which a government could possibly be guilty. 
I want to raise very quickly another matter because opportunities to speak are few. As long ago as February I raised in a grievance day debate in this House a matter of some urgency. I was seeking compassion for a neglected and apparently unwanted group of Australians who are deaf. Since making that speech I have received a great number of letters from all over Australia, from associations and relatives of the deaf and even from deaf people who have read that speech. Their gratitude and their appreciation was remarkable. Their gratitude that their cause had been presented was overwhelming. Although previously I had written to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  about ways and means of enabling the deaf fully to understand television and films, and although I tried as hard as I was capable of doing in this House to bring awareness of their need, neither the Minister nor the Government has indicated one sign of comprehension or of compassion, and nor has there been one move to do anything at all even to examine the case. 
In my speech I pointed out that we have a lot of unemployed and that a lot of the deaf are unemployed. They very often are the last to be employed and the first to be retrenched. That is a very sad fact of life. They simply want a chance, not just a favour. They must laugh at the piety of the Government's anti-discrimination statements because they know that they suffer from massive discrimination. When their case is presented in this Parliament I cannot get the Government or the Minister to take one scrap of notice of their plight. The only reaction I got on that day on which I spoke when I pointed out the position of these people- I spoke of how misunderstood they are, the extent of their handicap, how people showed them no patience, no understanding, because of their deafness- was for the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to sit on the front bench aping deafness and actually performing a comic opera which disgusted me. I did not have time on that day to take the Minister to task. I should not condemn him because I see now that the same attitude might permeate the whole of the Government. It is too much trouble for members of the Government to respond to the representations that I and others have made or to exhibit one small iota of interest or compassion. That surely shows up the fact that grievance day in this House has become quite a parsimonious business. The Government parades it as a means of giving private members an opportunity to raise their particular problems, and that is all it does, because once a speech is finished it is just as quickly forgotten. Certainly it does not bring from the Government any rectification or any remedy for the grievances that we have raised. Surely that is an indication of the sincerity of the Government. 
I wish specifically to exempt from any criticism or any suggestion of criticism two honourable members on the Government side of the House, namely, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  who I know has had a lot to do with this particular problem- I commend the work that he has done and the interest that he has taken- and also the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  who I know also has taken a great interest in this matter. But I once again voice my frustration and disgust at the fact that, having put the case, we cannot get an answer to our representations or even a sign of compassion or comprehension. 
-The Opposition has no wish to delay the passage of these Bills, namely, the Customs Tariff (AntiDumping) Bill and the Customs Bill. The Bills implement the decision to adopt the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade anti-dumping code. Time has not permitted us to explore fully all the views of those interests that might be affected by these Bills. Sometimes certain problems are not immediately evident, but we have had no indication from the industry that there are major problems associated with the Bills. In discussing the Bills with persons associated with various aspects of importing interests, that is, the persons who are affected, it is generally accepted that the adoption of the GATT anti-dumping code is a welcome development and should eliminate some of the more extreme actions taken in the name of anti-dumping. 
Section 8, which is definitive, describes the conditions and the circumstances in which the anti-dumping procedures would normally be invoked, and they are in line with the Department of Customs and Excise dumping questionnaire, which provides that the need for dumping duty must be based on the facts that there is dumping, that there is injury, and that the injury is caused by the dumping. Broadly the situation will indicate dumping if the . price at which the goods are exported to Australia is lower than the normal value and, by reason to that, material injury would be caused to an Australian industry or that the establishment of an Australian industry would be materially hindered. That is really what the first Bill is all about. The anti-dumping duty charged would be the difference between the normal value and the export price, which removes the advantage which would accrue to an importer who had sought to obtain goods at dumping prices or removes the advantage to an exporter seeking to dump his product on the Australian market. 
The usual type of exemptions appear in the Bill, mainly as to goods which are not offered for sale in Australia or competitive with goods so offered and also goods by way of sample. These are the main exemptions in the Bill, and where goods are so exempted the Bill requires that notification be published in the 'Gazette'. The Bill also covers the other usual matters such as third country dumping duties which provide broadly that, where the export price is below normal value and this results in material injury to producers or manufacturers of a third country, the Government of that country can ask the Australian Minister to apply this legislation to those sales and the Minister may so apply it. The operative word is 'may'. That would indicate to me that the decision is his and not one mandatory imposed by any other country. I do not criticise that provision because we would also be able to seek protection from any anti-dumping activity by expecting the same opportunity to make similar representations to other countries adopting the GATT anti-dumping code where our legitimate markets and trade are threatened by dumping practices from competitors within industries in this country. 
Clause 10 deals with the procedures relating to countervailing duties designed to protect Australian industry against imports which are cheaper because of subsidy or bounty support in the country of origin. I see no real virtue or need in exploring all of these comments exhaustively. They are covered in the Bill and they have been covered in the Minister's second reading speech. They are clear and what we would normally anticipate as necessary in a Bill of this nature. 
I shall make one brief comment on which the Minister may now or at some later time make some comment. Article VI of the GATT antidumping code in some detail makes definite provision for foreign suppliers and other interested parties to be given ample opportunity to present in writing all evidence they consider useful and to be able to see all information that is relevant to the presentation of their cases. I am not suggesting that this legislation or any other legislation should necessarily deal with all the procedural matters, but the present Bill- I will mention this aspect briefly later- makes one significant alteration to previous legislation in that the Minister will be able to impose dumping duty without prior inquiry and report by the Industries Assistance Commission. The fact that there was previously this type of inquiry and report would give the sort of person to whom I have referred opportunity to make certain submissions and to put his case before the dumping duties were so imposed. I am sure that this could have some importance to a number of importing industries. I hope that the Minister will tell us the procedure to be taken in these cases so that it can be more clearly indicated or defined so we will know how this situation will be covered. 
As I mentioned, a significant change has been made in this Bill. Previously the prior inquiry and report from the Tariff Board were necessary before dumping duties could be imposed. This caused delay, inconvenience and unwarranted costs. Reference was made to this, as the Minister suggested, in 1965 by the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. The change is that the Minister will be empowered to impose a dumping duty without prior inquiry and report by the Industries Assistance Commission. He can take the decision and impose the dumping duties. However, the Bill provides that if the Minister feels that he needs more information or more guidance on which to make a decision he can refer a dumping question to the Industries Assistance Commission if he so wishes. We have also noted that if he gazettes a dumping duty and there is an appeal against his decision he is required to refer the appeal to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
The Opposition agrees that this procedure could have considerable advantage. It would remove the objectionable aspects raised in the comments of the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board and raised in the report from  Sir John  Crawford and  Mr Rattigan  on that same issue. It will enable the Minister, if an investigation into the imposition of dumping duties seems warranted, to institute that sort of inquiry. He has that course available to him to ask for a full inquiry by the 
Industries Assistance Commission. That protection is there; that is the main thing. There is a right of appeal and there is an appointed body to consider that appeal against ministerial decision to impose dumping duties. The Bill requires the Minister not to adjudicate on his own decision but to refer it to the appropriate commission for such adjudication. To my knowledge there is no disquiet, nor do I immediately see that there should be any disquiet, among importing interests about that alteration. It is significant, as the Minister said, but nevertheless it could well streamline procedures and be an improvement on the situation that has existed. 
Much of the rest of the Bill deals with administrative machinery items such as currency, exchange, method of specification, powers of delegation, gazetting and revoking of notices. We do not need to discuss any of these matters at any length. I have studied the Bill and I have perused the GATT anti-dumping code, a document of some 12 articles. I have examined the dumping questionnaire of the Department of Customs and Excise, as it then was, about which we have spoken already, and I have had a look at the Minister's second reading presentation and explanatory notes on the clauses. The Minister's speech appears to be a fair exposition of these Bills, to explain the purpose of their introduction and to indicate changes of any significance from previous legislation concerned with antidumping.  His  speech was short and I will try to keep mine likewise. 
I do not criticise but I hope the Minister will take note of that one question which was asked. There is another question which we ask. Would the Minister comment, now or at some later time, on clause 5 (5) (c) of the Bill. The last paragraph of that sub-clause states: 
That price paid for like goods is to be taken to be that price paid adjusted in accordance with directions by the Minister so that those differences would not affect its comparison with that export price. 
That seems to be fairly vague. I am not quite sure that I fully understand its import when I compare it with the words used in the GATT antidumping code. The GATT anti-dumping code uses the words: 
Due allowance shall be made in each case for differences in conditions and terms of sale, for differences in taxation and for other differences affecting price comparability. 
It seems that the whole of clause 5 is vaguer than the words used in the GATT code. It could well be that the clause widens the powers and discretion of the Minister. I would appreciate his comments on the reason for the difference in wording and the import of the words against those that are used in the GATT anti-dumping code. We do not oppose these Bills and we do not intend to engage in unnecessarily long debate. There seems no reason to unduly impede their speedy passage through the House. I hope that the Minister, in his reply, is able to give us some advice on the 2 issues raised by the Opposition. 
I have listened to the explanation given by the AttorneyGeneral and Minister for Police and Customs  (Mr Enderby)  and he is not quite right. We hope in the future that it will not happen in this way. We trust the Minister implicitly. He is a benign and friendly man and we have accepted his explanation, but he said that honourable members of this side of the House knew. I did not know about this until I got a call fairly late this afternoon. I could not absorb in those few minutes the import of the amendments. I know sometimes that it is not possible, but if the Minister for 
Police and Customs  (Mr Enderby)  wants us to consider amendments such as these that involve definition- I am not talking about the fourth one, the typographical one, with which we agree wholeheartedly- I would hope that we could have a closer look at them. If we consider this matter in retrospect and look at it more deeply there could sometimes be a need to discuss it amongst ourselves and to make some other amendment in the other place. We do not intend to do that. We have tried to offer our co-' operation fully in respect of this and all such Bills. I think the Minister will know that I have done that. I hope that in the future the Minister will do what he can to make sure that we receive more adequate notice because we did not know of or understand completely the amendments until they were put on the table while I was making my second reading speech. I think the Minister will realise that probably we can co-operate more if the system is streamlined a little bit in the way that he has streamlined  things  in this Bill. 

 Mr Speaker did suggest that we could deal with a couple of matters at the Committee stage. The question that I asked, and the question that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  asked and the Minister did not fully cover, related to Article VI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade anti-dumping code. We pointed out that there is not only the situation of making submissions but also an opportunity to see all information that is relevant to the presentation of their cases. That is the matter we raised. We are not trying to be difficult. We are just asking the Minister whether he can give us some indication, in the light of the fact that there is not be to an Industries Assistance Commission investigation beforehand, of what is in practice the machinery for fulfilling the second part of the question which we asked. That is the matter with which I am not quite conversant yet. I did not quite follow the argument of the Minister. I do not think he dealt with that aspect and I raise that matter again now. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I preface my question by reminding him that he said in this House this week that adopted children who received Medibank cards in the name given by their natural mother and not their present name did so because of neglect to advise the Department of Social Security of the correct name. I therefore ask him: Why would a child adopted 4 years ago, whose present name was advised to the Department of Social Security 4 years ago, whose endowment has been paid in that name for 4 years- this is verified by checking- and who is recorded by the Department of Social Security in that name, still this week get his Medibank card in the christian names given by his natural mother, causing very considerable distress? Will the Minister who has guaranteed confidentiality and secrecy, now tell us where Medibank does get its information, because in this and other cases it did not and could not have got it from Department of Social Security and child endowment records? 
I rise to express my opposition to this and the other Bills, which I regard as being totally unacceptable, entirely unrealistic and exceptionally inequitable. Let not the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  continue to attempt to suggest that our opposition is an attack against the integrity of the Distribution Commissioners, because in his own words he has indicated that the overall conception is his and his alone. He has even indicated that the role of the Commissioners is secondary to his own designs. When the Minister first talked of redistribution, before a single Commissioner had been appointed, he openly stated that the electoral proposals would 'give the Country Party a heart attack'. What commendable detachment! What guarantee of fair play is that? Let him deny, if he can, his own words as recorded indelibly in Hansard of 22 May 1975- just last week- at page 2712. Let him, in his own fumbling, boastful way, reconcile those words with the pious pronouncements that he has made that as a Minister he has no influence or control over where boundaries are drawn. With a florid face and a loud voice he said: 
Opposition members say these proposals will be rejected in another place. I would like to get a good go at the Senate boundaries, too. I would make a bit of a difference there. We would see some changes from those old gentlemen in that other place if their boundaries were being considered. 
That exposes nakedly the utter hypocrisy of all the statements that the Minister has made. That shows how detached he is and how fair he really believes in his own heart these proposals are. His assurances have been shown to be utterly worthless and unreliable. Today he has effectively denied to any member of the National Country 
Party of Australia an opportunity to contribute substantially to any of the debates on these Bills. I attack not the Commissioners but the Minister, whose own words have revealed him to be the ruthless, unrepentant architect of these totally undemocratic proposals. It is not electoral justice for which he strives. He has many times- in almost every second sentence- expressed his determination effectively to destroy the rights of non-metropolitan residents to reasonable and acceptable representation. 
The Minister talks of numbers and of the principle of one vote one value yet this redistribution stands in stark contrast with all of those pious platitudes that he has expressed because the value of a vote is equally destroyed if many people in vast areas of Australia are effectively denied access to their parliamentary representative. What is the value of their electing a member to represent them, to be their advocate and to be their ombudsman if the electoral system erects impassable barriers that deny them reasonable access or, indeed, any access to their member. That would be the effect of the implementation of these redistribution proposals and the Minister knew that it would be. He engineered that situation by the amendments he initiated to the Electoral Act that are now under challenge in the High Court of Australia. 
In his pocket handkerchief under-quota electorate let the Minister consider if he will, as this is a general debate on cognate measures, the proposed over-quota electorate of FlynncumKennedy. It is to cover almost the length of a State. Let him consider the position of Camooweal, and, say, a town on the southern Queensland border. How is there to be access to the office and the person of the member representing that electorate by somebody from that town? Can he go by rail? He would need his long service leave to make a journey like that. Can he go by road? Most of the people in that area are paying more than $ 1 a gallon for petrol, and it is a tremendous journey. The Minister has no conception of distances. He believes that democracy and justice must end at the city limits. Can he ring up? What a cost that would be under this Government and the administration of the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop).  He cannot go by normal air services because the Government has cancelled all the country air services. He cannot go by charter flight because shortly he will not even have a country aerodrome left on which to land. As for the mail, services are discontinued, curtailed or emasculated in countless cases. Country post offices have been closed, and it is quicker to go on foot and deliver the mail by hand. 
These people desperately want to see their member: The beef producers, in the grip of a mammoth disaster; the wool growers, who are the pawns in a power struggle in the Cabinet and the Caucus; the producers of minerals, who are confounded by the attitudes of a Minister who will not even spell out the rules of the game and is more interested in off again, on again, secret midnight negotiations for a huge loan, for what purpose nobody has yet been willing to tell us or even give a hint; and the primary producers in desperately serious trouble because they have been sacrificed by the Government on the altar of political expediency. 
With an Act under challenge and with the certainty of a census next year entitling at least Queensland to another seat and the necessity for a completely new redistribution, the Minister's protestations about the need for the present redistribution stand exposed as expensive, unnecessary, unjustifiable and complete political opportunism. He does not attack a Party; he attacks the whole of rural Australia. He does not penalise a feared political foe but people who live outside of the metropolitan area, which is reminiscent of the statement by the man who is now our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who not very many years ago viciously described Australians who live outside the urban areas as pagans. We have not forgotten that, nor have the people who live outside of the urban limits. The Minister for Services and Property and the Prime Minister seek to divide Australians into warring classes and they have so clearly shown that their Utopian ideal is that civilisation and justice end when one leaves city limits. 
Let us look at what meaning the Government gives to community of interest and economic interdependency. In my electorate, for instance, I represent almost the whole of the Australian pineapple industry, a tobacco industry, a ginger industry, fruit and vegetable growers, timber men and dairy men. What does this redistribution propose? It proposes dividing them completely in two and putting half of them into the metropolitan Division of Petrie. How is that for a community of interest? How is that for sanity or justice? The proposal divides the Sunshine Coast right down the middle. Half of that goes to the metropolitan Division of Petrie. What humbug the Government talks when it talks of community of interests. What humbug it talks when it says these things. 
Thank goodness the Minister at least has to stop at the Queensland border. Let me mention another feature of the proposed distribution. There is an area south of Brisbane that is composed of sensible people who vote very solidly for the National and Liberal Parties. They should be attached to Oxley but of course that would be very embarrassing for the present incumbent, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  who is battling to hold his seat. Under the redistribution proposals that area will be tacked on to my electorate, which is to the north of Brisbane. 
I am glad to see the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Stewart)  opposite me at the table. I congratulate him on having endured so long. It must be confusing for him to know these days just whom he is assisting. If ever we needed any further evidence of a confused government with absolutely no idea of what it is about or where it is going, we have it in this Income Tax Assessment Bill. If we needed any other illustration of the Government's unparalleled ad hockery and its complete inability to formulate forward plans rather than resorting again and again commenced, panic and spite, it is here in this Bill. If we required one more example of a Budget being presented, radically altered even before debate has commenced, and dismantled, demolished and reversed continually thereafter until it becomes entirely unrecognisable, this Bill is it. No longer are we operating under any responsible system of budgeting. No longer are there any recognisable guidelines. Money is printed and poured out whenever the whim of the moment takes the Government. It creates a crisis today, and tomorrow there is a panic. It announces a course today and departs from it tomorrow. The tragedy of it all is that the Government sits in piles of money, the value of which is deteriorating, while inflation soars and unemployment multiplies, and it wonders why its credibility has been shot to pieces. 
The parts of this Bill which I particularly wish to discuss are not those which are ostensibly the purpose for the Bill, namely, those alterations which become necessary to our taxation law because of Papua New Guinea's projected independence. The parts to which I would refer are those which are so disarmingly referred to in the explanatory memorandum as being amendments 'in certain other important respects'. As we look at the Bill, the explanatory memorandum and the second reading speech of the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, which seeks to focus our attention on the provisions concerning Papua New Guinea, we find tucked away, hidden here and there, what these other important respects really constitute. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting we were talking about other important matters that are tucked away in this Bill. Even the terminology in the second reading speech of the Minister is fascinating. We well remember how urgent, important and vital it was for the Treasurer in 1973 to abolish investment allowances and accelerated depreciation. Now we find that it is described as important temporarily to reinstate an anaemic imitation of accelerated depreciation. We remember how vital and important it was in 1974 to bring in legislation to curtail what were called fringe benefits, to attack by taxation legislation such items as the use of a company car. Now the Minister says it is important to remove that same legislation. What a comedy it would be if it was not so desperately tragic. Honourable members sitting opposite have not the remotest justification to claim the tide 'Government' because there is a complete absence of any semblance of responsible government in the hands of a bewildered, incompetent group of lost legislators. Is it any wonder that Australia is, in the words of the old song, 'in the middle of a muddle' with people like that holding the reins? 
Let us have a brief look at clause 10 which is headed 'Company Cars'. We well remember how member after member of the Government, from the Treasurer down, told us how massively and dishonestly these fringe benefits were being manipulated to defraud the revenue. We well remember how they waved their hands and beat their breasts, breathed out fire and slaughter, and thundered that their legislation would thwart this roguery once and for all. They would listen then to no reasoned argument. They belittled anyone who tried to advise caution. They denigrated them as puppets and stooges of the alleged villains flashing around in company RoUs Royces, or perhaps they were white Mercedes. They introduced the legislation in a flourish of words. Now, in a brief flash of sanity they are going to remove it again. Naturally there is no flourish this time. In the Minister's speech there is an understandable sheepish economy of words, hopefully uttered in the expectation that no one will notice. An economy of words it is, but I wish that the Government could practice some other economies that we so desperately need. 
AU that the Minister so modestly and demurely mutters is that the legislation is 'designed to give relief in the private sector of the economy' and that 'it is one of a package of measures that the Treasurer announced on 28 January to assist the motor vehicle industry'. It has taken the Government almost 9 months to wake up. Almost 9 months ago we told the Government clearly and plainly what its proposals would do to the private sector and to the motor vehicle industry. Supporters of the Government laughed and crowed. They hee-hawed and ridiculed. But now the Government seeks to remove the legislation which we criticised and it then lauded because the private sector needs relief as does the motor vehicle industry. The mind fairly boggles at the mental processes involved in such a manoeuvre. What an astounding, almost unbelievable, performance it is. The Government enacted legislation against all advice and now seeks to remove it giving the very reasons which we clearly enunciated as to why it should never have been enacted in the first place. 
Similarly, with the portion of this BUI which dispenses with company tax instalments for 
February, the Government, with its usual muddled thinking, decided to introduce quarterly tax instalments for companies at a time and in a climate when liquidity was low and credit was tight. The Government would not listen when it was pointed out that this could have disastrous consequences, that it would cause company failures. Then, like Rip Van Winkle, the Government wakes, rubs it sleepy eyes and has to reverse its decision and defer the February instalments. The Government is not even sheepish, not even chastened, not in any way repentant. It blunders on, introduces legislation, listens to no one, creates an unholy mess and then takes the legislation off the book again. I suppose that the Government expects applause and commendation. If there were any award for monumental stupidity this Government would have cornered the market. 
Let us look at the Government's tremendous perception in regard to accelerated depreciation. We well remember when the Government abolished section 57AA relating particularly to primary producer accelerated depreciation. We recall how the Government removed investment allowances and deductions for certain developmental projects in the year in which the expense was incurred. We remember the Government's righteousness, its talk of pork barrelling and its solemn denunciations. Now it wants to give incentive to development. It wants to stimulate the corpses that it brutally murdered. Now the Government is a fervent evangelist of accelerated depreciation which it condemned out of hand and it has not even the decency to look sheepish about it. 
Let us look at what is proposed in this Bill. Let not anyone think for one moment that the provisions of the Bill are anywhere near as generous, effective, constructive or incentive-providing as the deductions they removed. Do not let anyone for a moment be deluded into believing, for instance, that investment allowance is restored in this Bill because what we have here is an anaemic measure designed to delude rather than to assist. It will be quite ineffective. The Treasurer tells us that plant which would have qualified for the now abolished investment allowances and is installed between 1 July 1974 and 30 June 1975 will qualify for depreciation rates at twice the existing rate. Let us just see what this means. This is the month of June; less than one month of the year remains. Surely no one would be stupid enough to have purchased plant until legislation is enacted merely on an announcement made some months ago. The people of Australia have long since learned that one cannot rely on today's Press announcement because it will be reversed tomorrow. 
Section 57AA allowed depreciation over 5 equal instalments. In the first year the date of purchase was quite immaterial. But this is not the case in this Bill. True, if the prime cost method is used at the most usual rate of 10 per cent, this is increased to 20 per cent; but this does not mean one-fifth of the purchase price in the year of purchase. Let me explain what has been confirmed to me by a senior officer of the Queensland Taxation Office. Formerly under section  57AA,  if new plant was purchased for, say, $5,000, in the first year a claim of $1,000 for depreciation and $1,000 for investment allowance could be made and a further $1,000 could be claimed as depreciation each year for the 4 subsequent years. This was an incentive to productivity and the stimulus which the Government says is now needed. But under this scheme, if plant is bought now at a cost of $5,000- and it has to be purchased before the 30th of this month to qualifyunder the prime cost method as one month's depreciation can be claimed there is no investment allowance and the depreciation which can be claimed for this financial year is not $1,000 but one-twelfth of $1,000, namely $83. What a remarkable stimulus that is. What a confidence trick! 
Even under the diminishing value method, where the rate to be doubled is 15 per cent, at 30 per cent for one month the magnificent depreciation claim for this year, the incentive, is $125. Even if for once the buyer had been willing to punt on a Government announcement and had taken the precarious course of buying plant in January in anticipation that this legislation would be enacted, depreciation for this year under the prime cost method of 10 per cent would be about $500 and under the diminishing value method only $750. As I said, these figures were confirmed for me by an officer of the Queensland Taxation Office. This proposal is a far cry from accelerated depreciation as we knew and understood it and which was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government as an incentive. Thus as an urgent stimulus it is not comparable with the incentives that were removed. It is too little and it is far too late. 
Again the Government, having belatedly realised the disaster arising from its first Budget, the consequent run-down of industry both primary and secondary, the massive unemployment and the destruction of all confidence, has fumbled about in panic and looked for a band-aid to apply to a mortal wound. Even with this more sensible system of depreciation, because it will have little or no effect this year, industry and primary producers will not have any real relief in taxation when they need it. Indeed they will not have any relief until they pay their income tax assessments in about May 1977. The way we are going under this Government, by that date we will be fortunate to have an industry or a primary producer left. What this clause means is that, if industry has the stamina to survive, this accelerated depreciation allowance will have a beneficial effect in March 1977. How is that for a stimulus that is urgently needed now? It will not be experienced until about 2 years from now. 
We do not oppose the Bill. It would not have been necessary if the Government in the first place had shown one atom of common sense. The Government would not now have to revoke legislation which should never have been implemented and it would not have to panic about restoring some of what it had so stupidly taken away. There is always forgiveness for the repentant sinner. But I guess that it is too much to hope that these Bills illustrate any sort of repentence. They are born of disaster, a disaster caused by  2Vi  years of maladministration and economic lunacy. I am not the only man who has used that term in the last few days. I hope that the Bill will repair at least a small part of the tremendous damage which has been the hallmark of this Government. But I am afraid that it is not much good closing the stable door after the horse has bolted when industry and primary producers are still in the mess that this Government has placed them in. After all, we had more than 3 Budgets last year and it appears that we will have 3 Treasurers this year. So we will probably have to endure this same procession of somersaults many more times if this Government survives. 
-The motion for the second reading of the Loan Bill the Opposition does not oppose, but we are not going to give the Government any pats on the back for it either. I support the amendment. As has been stated by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  the estimated expenditures for 1975-76 normally charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund substantially exceed the estimated receipts of the Fund. Given the Government's past performance and the doubtful reliability of its estimates, it is certain that this deficit will in fact be larger than is indicated in the Budget papers, because so transparently deficient are the bases for the estimates that this is unavoidable. For the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who leads a government that cannot do its sums, to come into this House this morning and concoct some figures and talk about an Opposition projection of a deficit of $4,600m is a load of rubbish. I would suggest that that might well be the figure that he thinks the Government's deficit might end up being as a result of the Government's inability to estimate properly and to keep within those estimates. That is the necessity for this Bill. It is this situation that brings this Bill to us. That deficit has to be met. By this Bill some expenditures which should appropriately be met technically from the Consolidated Revenue Fund are to be charged to the Loan Fund. This Bill in fact authorises certain defence expenditures from approved appropriations to be charged to that Fund. 
As I have said, the Bill itself is not opposed nor is there any equivocation on the part of my Party, the National Country Party of Australia, or our coalition colleagues about approval for provision of defence expenditure. What does concern us considerably- it is just not a talking point- is the lack of information, detail and explanations in this Bill and in the Treasurer's non-answers. Why can the Government not tell us at least a little more specifically more about the financing of this deficit? We have all sorts of people telling us that the deficit is reliable and that the figures can be relied upon although today considerable doubt has been cast upon them. The Government is pretty definite about that. If it is definite about that, why can it not be more definite about telling us how the deficit is to be financed? For instance, how much is to be appropriated as a result of a Bill such as this? 
The Treasurer says that it is not possible at this stage of the financial year to be at all precise, and he uses some vague innocuous words like 'certain moneys from time to time'. I am not asking for impossible precision, but if the deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund does exceed the estimates by even more than the estimated amount- I do not think that is an unreasonable hypothesis or supposition- how much or how little of the estimated defence appropriation will be able to come from Consolidated Revenue, or how inadequate will be the Consolidated 
Revenue Fund to meet, for instance, our defence expenditure? We will get on to the technical aspects of that later. Already we are told that it is inadequate. Already we are told that the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) will have to be amended although it was presented only a week ago. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  commented that this seemed to be an unusually early time in the year to bring in a Bill like this to authorise us to dip into the Loan Fund to finance the deficit. Despite the figures that the honourable member for Curtin and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean)  have mentioned across the table, there is not very much in the Treasurer's speech to tell us really where this Bill is likely to end. Where will it end and what amount would a Bill like this authorise? I think they are questions that are fair enough. I think the questions that have been asked by the Opposition this morning are fair enough. The Government has used defence as the vehicle. Is it not reasonable to ask how much of our defence expenditure is going to depend on appropriations from loan funds? It might not be possible to be specific, but we really have no information at all. I think it is reasonable to ask for those sorts of assurances, because as the deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund grows- it will continue to grow- this sort of Bill might become more important than it looks at the moment. It could well be more than a machinery Bill. 
Why defence? I suppose it is the best way to get around the Loan Council requirements. I suppose constitutionally it is the safe way to appropriate defence expenditure from the Loan Fund because it is doubtful just what other avenues of expenditure can be so appropriated. 
Yes, it is a clever way . The fact that other governments have done it in the past- the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  made some issue of that- is begging the question as far as I am concerned. It does not matter whether somebody before me has perpetrated a criminal offence. Because of a precedent, it does not mean that I ought to go out and perpetrate a similar offence. I am talking about this Bill and now. Defence does come into this Bill, and because it does that worries me. We were told yesterday, for instance, that it costs too much to maintain the school cadet corps. That is the first casualty. I think that its abolition is a retrograde, shortsighted and very stupid move. This Bill tells us: 'We are not going to be able to meet all of our expenditure so we have to authorise some of our defence expenditure to come from the Loan Fund'. In other words, defence expenditure in toto will not be able to be met by Consolidated Revenue. This worries me, because if we did not experience a chill down our spine at some of the attitudes and remarks of particularly left wing Government members on aspects of defence in debate in this House, I would be most surprised. Yet we are asked to pass this Bill happily. We are accused of wasting time on a Bill like this. We are assured that this is a machinery Bill, but is it? A number of questions have been asked which have not yet been answered. No attempt has been made to give us information which I believe we ought to have, which it is our right to have and which the people of Australia have a right to have, because this Bill can have massive implications. 
Why is it necessary now, a week after the Appropriation Bill was introduced in this House? How crucial is it that so soon we have to bring in these Bills and juggle our funds to meet the expenditure? How reliable are the Estimates, and how reliable is the deficit? Is there any significancewe are led to believe there is not- in the abnormal deficit already in the month of July? Is it naive to believe that our defence should be adequately attended to in a budget from Consolidated Revenue and that we ought not, at least at this time of the year, to have to worry about Bills such as this? It would be understandable if the year had gone on a little or if there were unusual or extraordinary circumstances. Then we might get some idea of the implications of this Bill. Then we might expect a Bill like this. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.1 5 p.m. 

I will talk for only a short time more. I want to keep faith with the Leader of the House (  Mr Daly).  He knows how reliable I am in these matters. The Opposition will be forced to proceed with this amendment which has been forced on us because it is the only way in which we can get the type of information we want. Also it is forced on us because the answers to questions asked on this Bill are not good enough. The Bill says that the amount will not exceed what is considered necessary to avoid a deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. That is delightfully vague. In the second reading speech we find words like 'We cannot yet be precise', or 'We cannot specify an amount', or 'The timing will be determined', or 'We just do not know'. Perhaps the last is fair enough. I do not think the Government does know. It has had only one Budget this year and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has already indicated that it could be as little as a fortnight before we see the first mini budget appearing in this House. However, if it is good enough to ask the Parliament to pass this Bill it should be good enough to provide a few answers. The only thing that is definite in this Bill and the only thing which we can accept without any equivocation is that this Bill does not indicate that there will be any over-expenditure or additional expenditure on defence. We did not have any illusions about that. We knew that that would be so. We did not need that assurance. The Government might over-expend everywhere else but we know that there is no danger at all of its squandering any money on the defence of this country. 
-Or on primary industry, as my colleague the honourable member for Darling Downs so aptly interjects. The only thing I can say is that I fervently hope the loan funds will prove pretty robust if the defence of our country and other appropriations are to be heavily dependent on it. My Party, the National Country Party, therefore supports and endorses the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The amendment was moved, as the Treasurer and the Minister for Overseas Trade have been advised, not in any sense of obstruction but because we feel that it is the only avenue by which we can have answered some of the questions posed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and by the honourable member for Curtin and perhaps the one or two I have added. That is the purpose of the amendment and we support it. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. We noted his comment the other day that he loves the country and is loved in it. Therefore, will he repent and reconsider the savage erosion of the tax averaging system for primary producers introduced in this Budget? I point out that previously for tax averaging purposes the primary producer's net taxable income was that figure after all concessional deductions were taken into account. Now the figure excludes concessional deductions and is a much higher figure. This reacts against beef producers, particularly in a time of crisis, and represents another bashing of primary industry. Will the Prime Minister repent and reconsider? 
-These Bills, the Excise Tariff Bill, the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Bill and the Customs Bill (No. 2) will be given passage in this House, but not because we approve of them. We do not. We do not oppose them because to do so would be to increase the massive deficit which we believe is already very much understated. We have to accept that reality. These Bills are necessary only because of the shocking economic shambles imposed on this nation by the Government. We have to give them passage. If we were in government there would have been no necessity to come to this sorry pass. Labor has said that the egg cannot be unscrambled. That, unfortunately, is not without some truth because so deep and so considerable is the damage and the hurt that this Government has inflicted that it may not end on the day the Government- a day not very far hence- is sacked from office. Although we will not oppose these Bills let honourable members be assured that when we are elected to govern we will clean up the mess, redress the injustice and get Australia back again onto a sound, sure, solid and economic foundation. That day, happily, is not far away. 
Let us see what the Government is putting before the House today in these 3 Bills. That the Government can introduce these Bills without a blush indicates that it is willing to sacrifice principles, if it ever had any, for political expediency and that election platforms and policy speeches in the eyes of members of the Government do not constitute any sort of contract at all with the electors. Indeed if the Government so truculently claims to have a mandate to implement virtually any whim or dogma, surely it should accept that it has a mandate or contract to keep its word and to keep faith with the Australian people whose vote it courted. It was this Government particularly through its main spokesman, the man who pro tem is the Prime Minister and head of Government when he is in Australia, which made unwarranted, unsubstantiated and untrue claims, in relation to these matters, about our coalition parties. In 1972 and in 1974 when we contracted to ease the burden of taxation, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  blustered that we were seeking to delude the electorate. He claimed that we would take the reprehensible course of reducing direct income tax but in fact would effectively increase taxation by increasing indirect taxation. He assured us then that Labor would not take such a course. Yet since December 1972 that course has been pursued by this Government on an unbelievable scale and today it culminates in Bills like this. 
For while the Government advances the untenable contention that it has reduced taxation it brings in, in an act of unbelievable dishonesty and hypocrisy, these Bills to increase excise and this in 1975-76 to net on beer not less than $234m; on potable spirits, $12m; on tobacco products, $75m; on crude petroleum, a massive sum of $280m. The coal export duty will return in 1975-76 a sum of $120m. I make no mention of postal and telecommunication charge increases, which also are of massive proportions and which are made on top of all these increases. So, as stated in the Budget Speech, these Bills will increase taxation by at least $72 lm in 1975-76 and considerably more in a full year. Additionally, of course, these imposts are now operative, while the so-called tax cuts have been deferred until next year. That is the record of this Government- one dishonest act which compounds a multitude of dishonest acts preceding it. 
It is not good enough for members of this Government to attempt to escape condemnation and justify these sorts of Bills by burbling on about what they speciously imagine we might have done or would do in Government. It is not good enough to spread their hands and blame overseas economic conditions for our dilemma, for the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has been forced to admit in the Budget Papers, in recounting conditions operating overseas, that Australia was relatively insulated from the predominant inflationary influence in other countries, that is, the rise in oil prices. He was forced to admit that the downturn in world activity was reflected in only muted fashion in the demand for Australian exports. The Government then cannot excuse these Bills and these actions by the further nonsensical tirades of blaming everyone else. No less a man than the Treasurer has exploded and dismissed that discredited theme and no less a man than the Treasurer has virtually admitted that the present disasters constitute a mess of the Government's own making stemming from its complete incompetence and incapacity to govern. 
Members of the Government stand without valid excuse, exposed by their own 1972 and 1974 policy speeches and condemned by their own words. Now, in an act of complete and reprehensible dishonesty, they bring in these Bills- a thing they said they would never do. These Bills are nothing more nor less than a massive increase in taxation and are implemented in the most underhand method of them all. While telling the people of Australia that they are reducing taxation Government members talk about easing the tax burden on the most disadvantaged; yet these Bills have no regard for circumstances or disadvantage. They savagely affect every person in the country. I doubt whether even a pensioner who does not smoke, is a teetotal Rechabite and rides about naked on a push bike can escape the avaraciousness of this Government. My first criticism of these Bills is that they are a dishonest abrogation of Labor promises and a betrayal of the Aus.tralian people who put Labor into office. 
The next criticism is also of uncontestable validity. These Bills are extensively and directly inflationary and thus make a mockery of the Government's statement that it was launching an attack on inflation. These measures constitute a direct increase in the price of commodities which will be reflected immediately in the increase in the consumer price index. They therefore represent another direct attack on wage indexation and reveal the Government's complete lack of sincerity in its ostensible support for wage indexation. But perhaps even more important is the ongoing or snowballing effect because increases in fuel prices will have to be passed on in the form of further price rises on virtually every commodity. Freight and transport costs will increase. So the price of all commodities will rise. Let there be no mistake; the pensioners, the unemployed, the poor and the disadvantaged Will face these same increases. There are no exemptions for the underprivileged. Power generation and fares will increase. But this Government has the effrontery to claim that it is acting against inflation. 
Of course, these Bills are inflationary and provide the fuel for inflation to take an upward impetus. But these Bills must be criticised on yet another ground. While the Government dishonestly juggles figures and claims to have exempted 500 000 people from paying taxation, these Bills in fact extend the range and intensity of taxation. It is all very well to claim that the pensioners, the unemployed and the underprivileged have had the burden eased. But pensioners, the unemployed and the underprivileged if they are then to have that burden eased must be denied their glass of beer. They must be prohibited from their occasional cigarette and they must not pay a fare or travel anywhere. This is a Government that says it cares for peoplebut not these people, apparently. It reminds one of the historical pronouncement during the days preceding the French revolution when the complaint was made that the people had no bread. Back came the royal retort: 'Well, let them eat cake'. Apparently, this Government believes that these people must be treated with contempt. No one will suffer more under these vicious imposts than they Will. Scrooge-like this Government merely says, 'If they Uke to die, let them die and reduce the surplus population '. 
These measures not only represent a savage increase in taxation. They also widen the net from which the tax will be grabbed. They show a complete ignorance of the cumulative effects which will accrue and a complete lack of concern as to whom they will hurt. There is another valid criticism of the measures, namely, that they represent a betrayal of the trade union movement, the workers, and are an abrogation of all the assurances given to them by this Government. These measures, combined with the postal and telecommunication increases, will thrust upward the consumer price index by perhaps 2 per cent or more in the December quarter and even more as a result of a snowballing effect subsequently. Yet the Treasurer tells us that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, for the purposes of wage indexation procedures, should ignore these effects on the consumer price index. That is, wages must not be adjusted to take account of these rises. The Government tells us that they are sincere about wage indexation. What poppycock! There are 3 reasons why this statement is so much nonsense: First, it is of doubtful validity whether the Government can lay such a condition on the Commission; second, the unions will not accept it; and third, the Commission cannot possibly accept it. Where then is the sincerity and the honesty of this Government? It never had any and it has none now. 
These Bills arrogantly represent a thumb on the nose attitude to the trade union movement and every worker in Australia. They are a massive and inexcusable confidence trick and give the lie to every assurance this Government gave to them when it asked them to accept wage indexation. Has the Government considered what these excise tariff proposals will do to small businesses and the disastrous effect that they could have? Already tottering, multitudes failed or failing, the increase excise on petroleum products will be a body blow of mammoth proportions. We well remember the way in which the words of the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia,  (Mr Anthony)  were twisted, distorted and quoted dishonestly and completely out of context by the media and by this Government. Now, with petrol prices already at astronomical levels, we find that they will escalate further by between 6c to 10c a gallon. Already in remote areas petrol costs over $1 a gallon. If honourable members want verification of that, they can ask my friend, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  That reflects too - 
It costs more than that as you travel towards the border. I would think that that reflects the attitude of this Government to rural people and primary industry. The Government has set out deliberately in a vindictive attack on rural people and primary industry. As previously shown in my comments, these additional increases will snowball, multiply and escalate the price of virtually every good and service. Let the Government deny that if it can. The least able to cope, the least able to adapt and the least able to survive will be the struggling small businesses. This Government has ensured by way of huge increases in another area that they will not even be able to afford to post a letter or to make a telephone call to complain about it. After the Government's pious denunciations of my Party and its allegations about fuel prices, it is a wonder that it does not choke on the words of this Bill. 
Then, incomprehensibly and unbelievably, in another of these Bills the Government aims to kill off about the only goose left capable of laying the golden egg. In our shattered economy and in our absolute gloom there was one bright star left in the economy. The one bright star that remained was the coal mining export industry. To the Government this was unforgivable. It just could not be permitted. So we have the unique warped conception dreamed up of an export tax on coal. What a tax it is. It will be $6 a tonne on high quality coking coal and $2 a tonne on coal of other quality. Indeed, it would seem that a number of mining companies are operating on a profit margin less than the level of this new tax. It is reiterated in the second reading speech of the Customs Bill (No. 2) that the Treasurer does not wish the export duty to be passed on to overseas buyers who have recently agreed to pay higher prices. He also withdraws the provision for increasing contract prices to take account of the new duty. What an economic wizard this Treasurer is. How on earth can he confront workers in the coal mining industry, already engrossed in industrial disputes seeking more money, and justify this measure? He is saying that this tax must not be passed on to overseas buyers. It must be directly ripped off profits if there are, indeed, enough profits to absorb it. If that renders mines no longer viable and if it puts miners out of work in large numbers, as it well could, what concern is that of his? If it is passed on is extra charges to the users of electricity- that is every Australian, because power generating plants do use coal sometimes- what does that matter to him? 
I thought that controlling inflation meant keeping prices and service costs down, not finding every available means to push them up. How on earth the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  that sad countenanced gentleman- is it any wonder- can allow this Bill to be produced without a murmur or whimper really astounds me. Has not he any communication with the coal mining industry and the workers in employment in that industry? He might do well to talk to them and hear what their reaction is to this latest act Is there yet a promise of this Government that has not been dishonoured? Does its mandate include this sort of economic madness? Is there yet an assurance that it has given that is worth a crumpet? Is this its loudly trumpeted tax reform of which the Treasurer made such a song and dance? Is this what it means by reducing and restructuring taxes? I know what the Government will do. The Prime Minister and other Ministers will attempt to misconstrue what I have said. They are already claiming that the Opposition endorses the various Budget principles because we have not covered every last cent of the Estimates in detail. Of course, they will attempt to read into these statements their own distorted imaginations. They will cry: 'What will you do if you get back into office? Will you remove them?' That is a negative and wishy-washy course. They are virtually pleading with us to get them out of the sorry mess they have caused. Our carefully costed, clearly defined Budget enumerated by the Leader of the Opposition does just that. It was an open, honest blueprint to get Australia back on the road to recovery. The Government knows that much of the mess cannot be instantaneously rectified. We accept the reality of the situation. Unfortunately we have to accept reality We believe that these Bills were introduced because of the disastrous course the Government has pursued. These Bills are here because of the point at which we have arrived under the guidance of this so-called Government. The problems cannot be instantaneously rectified. We accept the reality of that. We have said so. What I say about these Bills today is that they are the inevitable result of mismanagement by this Government. They would never have been necessary had our earlier warnings been heeded. They would not have arisen but for the behaviour of this Government which has gyrated about like a beheaded rooster. They arose from no policy speech. In fact, they directly contradict and negate every assurance given in the Labor Party policy speeches. What the Government tried to construct as Australia's course and motive it has, despite all promises, surpassed beyond all belief 
These Bills must be lined up against those promises because that is the basis of the Government's oft claimed mandate. It said: 'We will cut taxes '. These Bills represent a massive increase in taxes. The Government said: 'We Will not increase indirect taxes as would the LiberalCountry Parties'. Yet, in these Bills alone, we have something like a $72 lm increase in indirect taxes. The Government said: 'We Will take the tax burden from the disadvantaged and those least able to pay'. By these Bills the Government has laid an immense impost on those for whom they purport to have some sympathy and pity. It said: "The Country Party will make petrol dearer, but we will never allow that'. These Bills will make petrol dearer than anyone would have dared to imagine. It said: 'We will get export sales for minerals. We Will get decent prices. We will strengthen and develop the mining industry and its profitability: These Bills impose an export tax which has the coal industry stunned and staggering and which could, in fact, close mines. The Government said: 'We will guarantee full employment'. Because of the effects I have detailed, these Bills will contribute perhaps to more unemployment. The Government says that beer is the worker's drink and his pleasure. I will let the workers tell the Government what they think of this Bill as they sip their sarsaparilla, because ale is now the drink of the wealthy. 
It is no longer sense for the Government to ask: 'What would you do?' In these Bills we see what the Government has done. It can be likened to a pavement artist sitting sadly among his chalks with the big sign displayed: 'AU my own work'. This Budget is the Government's own work. It is the ultimate disintegration of any credibility which it may yet have retained. These Bills are a negation of every promise the Government has ever made. They are the epitaph of a government shortly to be consigned to the more unpleasant and unsavoury memory of history. This Government promised the world but delivered up hell. The Government can have its Bills- they belong to the Government. It conceived and drafted them. We will not oppose them. They are the Government's creation. They are necessitated by the Government's mismanagement. May it have with its Bills the full odium of its broken promises and shattered assurances when it again goes to the people and asks them for their trust. The Government should have no doubt of the people's answer and of the intensity of their rejection. In this place we cannot and will not defeat the Bills. We know, sadly, that they are an integral part of the Budget. We know that their rejection could increase considerably a deficit which we believe is totally understated. We charge the Government with blatant dishonesty and a betrayal of its promises and socalled mandate. I believe that this dishonesty and betrayal is in these Bills for the whole of Australia and the world to see. 
-In speaking briefly to the estimates for the Department of the Treasury I will refer to matters concerning the Australian Taxation Office. These matters relate primarily to accountants in country regions preparing taxation returns. I am pleased to see the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean)  at the table because I know he will realise that I am not seeking to launch an attack on the Australian Taxation Office. But I sincerely believe there is a very serious lack of appreciation and indeed often of common courtesy evidenced by the Australian Taxation Office towards such accounts. I was for a very considerable period a country accountant in full time practice so I speak from experience and in the very definite hope that this regrettable situation can be remedied. 
I fully realise the responsibility of the Australian Taxation Office in assessing returns and that it is charged with the collection of the taxation revenue within the financial year. I most certainly concede that there must be some arrangement to ensure that assessments and collections are smoothly and expeditiously supervised. That observation is sincerely made to indicate that I seek a constructive and sympathetic  detente  between the Taxation Office and tax agents, which does not exist at the moment. In the great majority of cases country accountants are unable to attract qualified staff into the country to assist them. They operate in an economy which precludes them from charging clients anywhere near the amounts which metropolitan practitioners can command. Their clientele relies on them to prepare not only their taxation returns but all sorts of statutory returns such as statistical, livestock, land and payroll tax returns. 
They also have to prepare returns required by commodity boards as well as all sorts of documents required by banks, such as loan applications and rural reconstruction applications. There is an endless variety of such returns. Short staffed, in tight economic conditions, country accountants find that they have little or no time for general accountancy work for which they are qualified and which is more remunerative. Instead they are bogged down and under tremendous pressure to meet the lodgement programs laid down by the Australian Taxation Office. The practitioner bears the responsibility for every return lodged. The onus is his, not his staff's. Every tax return requires considerable time, complete reconciliation and very much hard and exacting consideration and work. 
While I concede that there may be some who contribute to their own unfortunate situation, that number is very small. It is no exaggeration to point out that many country accountants have to work 7 days and 7 nights a week, including public holidays, and mostly get no annual vacation. Their financial reward is often very much below the salaries of the staff they employ. I wish this could be appreciated by many officers of the Australian Taxation Office. Unfortunately communications issuing from the Taxation Office are curt and sometimes quite rude. Demands for information are issued and if a reply does not arrive within a few days there are nasty reminders, even summonses and all sorts of follow-up. Yet the experience of accountants is that when they write to the Taxation Office, inquire about a refund or assessment, request information or ask for consideration of a matter, they often receive no answer at all or the answer is not furnished for very long periods. No matter how often the accountant asks, this does not make the slightest difference. That was my own experience in private practice. It is the complaint of virtually every accountant in the country who continually point out this totally unsatisfactory state of affairs. 
There is no courteous acknowledgment where the Australian Taxation Office is in error. But the country accountant dare not miss a requisition from the Taxation Office. The Taxation Office with its demands for lists, its penchant for final notices, its imposition of penalties, its requisitions for very time consuming and detailed information directed at times of greatest lodgment pressure seem to fail utterly to realise that accountants work their guts out and would do anything to be able to meet lodgment programs and avoid final notices and summonses. Yet on the due date, and even before, out they come, not only to accountants but also to clients and the harassed accountant is further besieged by unhappy and bewildered clients, very upset by the terse, formal demand they have received from the Taxation Office. It is usually hopeless for an accountant to succeed in being allowed to discuss problems on the telephone with the officer in the Department that he seeks. The penalties and fines imposed are usually paid by the accountant because despite his utmost efforts he just cannot meet the deadlines and avoid them. He is unable to go to accountancy conferences or seminars because he cannot get away from his practice. 
Year by year he brings these problems to the attention of the Taxation Office in response to their demands. But all that seems to happen are more forms and the position becomes more hopeless. This year additional forms are being sent to clients whose returns, assessments and payment were delayed last year. Has the Taxation Office any conception of the extra burden and worry that this imposes on accountants? If it is under any misconception let it see how completely unsaleable are country accountancy practices and how unwilling qualified accountants are to go to country areas to practice. Many years ago before I was a member of Parliament I managed to talk to a  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation and sought to get to him at least some understanding of the problems.  His  attitude was that accountants are somewhat parasitic in nature and but for the good graces of the Taxation Office they would not have a job. I failed to make him see how impossible it would be for the Australian Taxation Office if accountants did not so assiduously sort out the material and compile the returns. From experience I can tell honourable members that these returns are often constructed from shoe boxes or even flour bags of unsorted papers, cheque butts, bank statements and so on. They have to be reconciled. Accountants have to follow up every sale, contra and purchase with livestock agents and community organisations to ensure the accuracy of the return. 
If a person becomes bankrupt aU sorts of requisitions are put on the accountant asking all types of questions. The accountant has to provide this information knowing that he will not get paid. We have that sort of attitude expressed so often by city-bound Taxation Office employees, on flexitime, enjoying every public holiday and taking vacations on full pay plus 17V4 per cent, or whatever it is, who send out notices as if they come out of a sausage machine but will not answer an inquiry or give one bit of co-operation. I have said, and I am sincere, that I know the responsibilities of the Taxation Office. I wish that I could give a complete and full solution to this very serious situation. But let there be no mistake. It is serious, it is frustrating and it is causing physical and mental breakdowns and increased heart disease among country accountants. There is a curtness, often a rudeness, an attitude of demand but very little understanding and cooperation. There is an attitude among many taxation officers which is cruel and totally indefensible. I regret having to say these things but because they are true they must be said. 
Public relations by the Australian Taxation Office with country accountants is absolutely shocking and is deteriorating further. Refunds are slow and there is a suspicion that clients of tax agents wait much longer than do individuals who furnish their own returns. Despite the Acting Treasurer's statement in the House I have been assured by many accountants that refunds this year are hopelessly slow and long delayed. Again the wrath of the clients is vented not on the dilatory Taxation Office but on the poor accountant. He cannot shed his workload for there is no one else to do the work. The excuse that the return is in the computer and will be processed soon wears thin when further months elapse without further advice. 
I hope that we wm see changes of attitudes and greater co-operation and understanding. I hope that accountants will be able to have some trust and faith in the Taxation Office, and feel that they are being treated as human beings because such faith has been stifled. Accountants feel- unfortunately with justification- that they are regarded as less than human. I would like the time to document chapter and verse and relate case after case and instance after instance. But in the short time that I have had to speak I hope that I have identified the problems and situations that are extremely distressing. I hope that the Taxation Office will realise and value the tremendous and responsible role of these country accountants and admit how much it relies on the work that they perform. I hope that the attitudes change. I believe that this is a serious matter and it must be rectified and remedied because it has persisted too long. The situation of country accountants is still deteriorating; in many cases it has become untenable and quite impossible. 
-In speaking briefly to these estimates I would express my appreciation to the Ministers for Customs- there have been in fact no fewer than three of themfor their courtesy in facilitating my ready access to the departmental head, the Department and the operational organisation of the Department of Customs since I have assumed the responsibility of shadow minister for customs and excise. Might I too express in real sincerity my appreciation to and respect for  Mr Alan  Carmody, who heads that Department, and to the sub-collectors and other officers who have been so courteous and so helpful. I have visited a number of centres of Customs operations and have had the opportunity of inspecting, watching and discussing those operations with many officers. From this informed situation I pay very high tribute indeed to the diligence, ability and very high calibre of the men and women- there are a number of women- who are engaged in every avenue of Customs. 
True it is that weary travellers and hard working customs officers at the end of a long work shift may sometimes exchange cross words. We seem to hear about those instances. But this is a rare exception for I found nothing but courtesy wherever I went. Having observed these things, I felt I should acknowledge them here in this place and at this time. True it is also that no matter how diligent are our officers there will always be some instances of evasion, even drug trafficking, which will escape detection. Nor, despite the utmost diligence, will we ever completely remove every last risk of entry of exotic disease even if we increase our detection forces one hundredfold. This would have to be admitted. But these possibilities do not exist because of any laxity or unconcern among the officers and to make such a suggestion would be wrong and unfair. 
Among the estimates for the Department of Police and Customs I notice there is provision for $1,672,000 to extend the Department's computing operations. Although I have been sceptical of computers in modern society I have no hesitation in saying that computerisation has been a tremendous advantage to the Department- in efficiency, in multiplying the work output, in detection, in detecting undesirable and notorious visitors immediately they arrive, in providing warning of possible drug carriers, in providing rapid information on exports and imports and in many other ways. I would thoroughly endorse this expenditure. It is to the advantage and protection of every one of us. 
I think a statement of the Minister some months ago was most unfortunate and unfair to his Department. He said that since the fall of South Vietnam Australia was becoming the dumping ground or transit centre for a huge drug traffic. The Minister may at that time have been doing a pre-Budget lobby for funds for his Department and that aim might be laudable enough, but his statement cast a serious aspersion on the ability, efficiency and diligence of his Customs officers. It most certainly was not warranted. I know that it was not happily received by his officers who are very concerned and using every effort, with a good deal of success, to detect any entry of drugs. Whatever his motive, that statement, I believe, would have been much better left unsaid. 
I am glad to see that customs, health and quarantine officers probably by the end of this year will have much better and more adequate facilities at Brisbane airport. Up to now the facilities have left much to be desired. Indeed the officers work under almost impossible conditions. The new temporary international terminal is a necessary provision and long overdue. I am glad that it is reaching completion. In general the estimates for the Department of Police and Customs will receive no opposition from me. 
Turning to the Attorney-General's Department and in particular film and literary censorship, again I thank the Minister and the censors and the censorship boards for the co-operation and courtesies they have given to me. Any comments I make are no reflection on the members of those boards. They do not make the films, they do not import them; they are charged with their classification in accordance with the policies of the government of the day. This they do faithfully and well. But surely few, if any, of us can be at all happy with the figures recently released covering films examined by the Film Censorship Board for the year ending 30 June 1975. The figures show that 970 films were examined by the censors, of which 174 were classified for general exhibition and another four were so classified after cuts; 202 were classified not recommended for children; 248 were classified for mature audiences; 180 were classified 'R'; 18 were classified 'R' with cuts; 23 were rejected outright and 121 were classified to be shown in special conditions such as at film festivals. 
So only 174 films out of 970 were suitable for general exhibition without cuts. I suggest that it is a sickening state of society when films and literature have to rely on pornography, perversion and filth to attract an audience. I hope that we will find some way of giving incentives, encouragement, support and perhaps even financial help to producers who will produce films with a good, appealing story, of some excellence of production and narration and which can stand on those attributes and do not have to rely on erotic scenes and equally erotic advertising to be financially successful. 
The point I want to make most strongly is that the Government and the Minister must give loyalty and support to their censors. When a film is rightly rejected some weird journalists- I mention those from one newspaper, the  National Review,  probably themselves frustrated failures, with weird perverted tastes- abuse the censors and  Mr Prowse  with unsavoury and unwarranted slander. I hope the Minister and the people of Australia will not allow vicious attacks like that to continue. Censors do the jobs they are appointed to do. I will stand by  Mr Prowse  and his Censorship Board rather then those weirdos who scurrilously attack them and seem to want to wallow in a lot of muck. Witness the exhortation of writers in the  National Review  about a film depicting a man's love life with his favourite pig and their criticisms of  Mr Prowse  for deeming it not to be edifying. I ask the Minister and the Government to stand by their censors and the decisions of their censors despite this sort of scurrilous attack upon them and the job they do. I should like to say a good deal more about the spate of pornography which is reaching even to our children and is starting even to invade our television and enter our living rooms. But I shall leave that to another appropriate occasion. 
I want to say something quickly about the Department of Police and Customs and about the structure of the Australia Police which will radically alter the existing forces. I hope it will not be long before we see a Bill dealing with the structure of the Australia Police. Due to the many representations we have received on this matter I ask the Minister to ensure when such a Bill is introduced- I hope it will be soon because the amalgamation the Australia Police Force has no legislative backing- that we will have ample time to study it, that he might consider laying the Bill on the table for a reasonable period so that we can adequately consider it, so that the States and the police forces of the States can adequately consider it and indeed so that the Australian citizens can have a look at it. The proposal is for a new and substantial change. I hope that the Government will take that course and not seek to rush the Bill through this Parliament with any unseemly haste. I think the Minister will concedeI think he has conceded- that this is a pretty reasonable and proper request and a course which might set at rest a lot of concern and alarm abroad concerning the new Australia Police integration and structure. 
-The Opposition will not be opposing this amendment, particularly in the light of the most splendid definition which, for its clarity, I ought to read again. That definition is: ... the crucible swelling number of coal is the number which, if the coal were subjected to a test made for the purpose of determining the crucible swelling number of coal, being a test approved in writing by the Minister, would be that number. 
Knowing the Minister's capacity and knowledge in the field of determining crucible swelling, how comforted we are. 
I note that I have opposite me again the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby),  who so often the other night called me 'my good friend'. I wondered whether that resulted in the somewhat cold reserve I have struck among my colleagues. This, of course, is a familiar path that we are taking. It is a path that we ought to have expected to take again this year, in that a Budget is brought in, taxes heralded and before the Minister's voice has stopped resounding in the chamber the reversals, the emasculation, and the changes occur. Of course, that has happened again. The Opposition is not going to oppose these amendments because they exempt some coal from the export tax. We would have been happier if the whole tax had been withdrawn, and we would still appeal to the Government to remove the whole of this export tax from all classes of coal, because it is disastrous to the nation and it is disastrous to the industry. 
Actually, these amendments complicate the Bill somewhat further, because now we are to have 3 classes of coal. High quality coking coal will be taxed at $6 a tonne, coal that is not high quality coking coal but is not within the definition set out in the amendments will be taxed at $2 a tonne, and there will be no tax on coal falling within the definition set out in the amendments. I thank the Minister for the tribute he has paid this afternoon to my knowledge and intelligence. Before me he has placed a piece of paper which I had not seen before which talks about things like proximate analysis and crucible swelling numbers of not greater than three. The Minister, when he talks about proximate analysis and crucible swelling numbers, knowing my interest in the subject of pornography is fortunate I do not interpret it as some sort of indecent suggestion. But the meaning is made perfectly clear in the definition supplied at the bottom of the circulated amendments which states:  ... the crucible swelling number of coal is the number which, if the coal were subjected to a test made for the purpose of determining the crucible swelling number of coal, being a test approved in writing by the Minister, would be that number. 
That is abundantly clear now. I am fortunate indeed that the august senators in another place have looked at this Bill. I know that terms like 'proximate analysis', 'air-dried basis' and 'crucible swelling' are so well known to them that they use them in their breakfast conversation as much as they do the discussion of the weather. Of course we welcome the fact that at least one class of coal, steaming coal- the Minister will see that I am  au fait  with some of the terms- has been exempted from the coal export duty. We appeal to the Government to go further than this. We believe that this tax is the most retrograde tax perhaps in the whole of the Budget. 
-As my colleague, so learned in these matters, said, it is stopping development in the industry. That industry was a bright spot in our economy. Of course, that is disastrous in the eyes of this Government; that could not be allowed to continue. So the Government levied this tax which I believe is retrograde and most unfortunate. I appeal that the Government should not do the job in part, as it has done, and should review the whole export coal tax and remove this tax forthwith. 
I know that the Attorney-General has agreed that the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  be allowed to speak on this matter. He has some pertinent comment to make on it. The comments he made in his speech on the Budget drew attention to the serious nature of this tax. We do not oppose the amendments; we support the amendments. But we wonder whether these technical terms and what was happening were understood entirely by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  We wonder whether the geography of his electorate and the mines it contains had any effect on the proposing of these amendments. We support the amendments. 
-After that performance by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  we now know whose thinking is confused and muddled. He has no idea of where the Government is going. He is obsessed with the the Opposition's economic policies. He does not seem to be able to understand them. He asks: 'Where are you going to make the cuts?' Then he admits that in our response to the Budget we specifically put down areas in which cuts in Government expenditure would be made. Now the Treasurer is having another go at his arithmetic. He costed the matters out once and he had to admit belatedly that he was all wrong. But he has no answer at all. How long will he hide behind such vague generality as 'seasonal fluctuations' and 'it will all come right tomorrow'. The question is: What will the deficit be. The Treasurer has indicated that it will exceed the Budget figures, conceivably by a very large amount. But he dodges an answer as to what it will be. He uses lots of words and splendid rhetoric. He says we ask for precision but he will not be precise to within one billion dollars. No wonder he is feeling insecure. 
In terms of this matter of public importance I accuse the Government of massive and unforgiveable deceit. Indeed, hardly a day passes without a major instance of deceit and dishonesty being exposed to the Parliament and to the people of Australia. Not a statement made by the Government and not an assurance given by it can be accorded credibility for tomorrow that can well be revealed as yet another completely dishonest act, compounding a continued and never-ending succession of dishonest acts which are a blatant deception of the Parliament and the nation. Surely there was no greater, more wicked or contrived deceit to surpass that which we saw in last year's Budget. But it is now completely overshadowed in this year's Budget. The people and the Parliament of this nation have every right to expect that the Budget documents will be precisely constructed, completely honest and a solemn contract in which we can repose some trust. It becomes a farce and an act of fraud if its estimates of expenditure are patently and demonstrably massively understated, and if its estimates of revenue are based on premises so demonstrably false that they amount to a confidence trick of mammoth dimensions. 
The announced estimated deficit has absolutely no meaning. It is not even an honest estimate. It is a mere figure plucked out of the air and impossible of attainment by this Government. Indeed, there was never any expectation or intention of containing the deficit to that figure, nor, I believe, to anywhere near it. We have had presented to this nation documents that defy every principle and every purpose of budgeting. As Estimates they are totally deficient and patently deceitful. As the operative plan against which the year's operation should be measured and compared, the Budget is absolutely and transparently irrelevant and worthless. If these principles were employed by the directors of any Australian company in order to issue a prospectusand surely that is an appropriate comparisonthe directors would be committed to a very long term of imprisonment, and justifiably so. Surely a government which engages in that sort of deceit merits even greater condemnation for it deceives not only the Parliament but also the nation and every person in that nation. 
As we have seen by the latest figures, the Government stands discredited, dishonoured and despised by the Australian people and the world. Internationally our stocks and our credibility have never been so low and have never been so completely destroyed. The man who must accept that blame, the man who must accept responsibility for the shame and dishonour which is revealed again in these documents, is the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who stands at the head of the most disgraceful, most bungling and most dishonest government in the history of this nation. All too often he attempts to escape that blame by making someone else the scapegoat, by shifting the blame to some other person. He seeks the adulation, the plaudits and the kudos, so on him must rest the blame and the condemnation. 
Knowingly, this Government has presented Estimates of expenditure for the Budget year 1975-76 based on salary levels of March to June 1975. The act of deceit is that there has been totally insufficient adjustment, if indeed any, for increases throughout the Budget year. There has been an understatement of a magnitude of something like $80m to $100m. It has based postal and telecommunications expenditure, as my colleague said, on June 1975. Postage rates have risen by 80 per cent and those increases were announced before the Budget. Although the Budget presented took some account of the extra revenue, it ignored the cost in its expenditure estimates. Similarly, with telephones, the same almost unbelievable deceit is evident. It is not just cavalier budgeting; this Government regards the people of Australia as unbelievably stupid and gullible and treats them as being beneath contempt. This is so in regard to Medibank, where payments to the hospital side are in the Estimates although these payments will not commence, I believe, until about February next year when the deficit will accelerate further. It applies also in regard to unemployment benefits in respect of which the Budget takes no account of unemployment benefits or other administrative expenses. The same .deceit and the same dishonesty in estimation is demonstrable right through. 
A deficit, already something like $ 1,887m at 30 September, is lauded by the Treasurer as reflecting the success of wage indexation. How naive and how stupid does he think the Australian people are? The people who have dropped out of the ranks of taxpayers because they have lost their jobs, because their businesses have collapsed or because they are in a loss situation may have a little to do with the decrease in taxation revenue. 
A report in today's  Courier-Mail  states that Government borrowing from the Reserve Bank may now have topped the $ 1,000m mark, by a wide margin, and that this massive overdraft has been run up in the last month to help finance the 
Government's heavy spending. But the Government says that things will be all right tomorrow. The newspaper report said that the expansion is likely to continue for some time. As close to the presentation of its Budget as mid-September the Government began its Treasury bills financing operations with the Reserve Bank. It went into massive overdraft with the Bank for the first time since early 1972. A person, even a nation and a Parliament, perhaps could regard with some sympathy, if not absolutely condone, an honest miscalculation based on extraordinary unforeseeable events, but we cannot and will not condonewe will utterly and completely condemnoutright deceit, transparent dishonesty, contempt for the people and practices which surely would border on the criminal if employed by private enterprise. 
Right from the outset of the Budget the deficit had absolutely no credibility. Never for a single moment was it a statement of honest accounting to the nation. It was never expected to be any guide or outline of the economic course to be pursued. Never for a moment did it merit the title of a Budget. It was always a form of rhetoric and words. It was a mass of figures in profusion which could not stand up to honest examination and scrutiny, as the Senate Estimates committees found out. The basic principle of a budget is that it is the yardstick with which the year's operations should be continually compared so that adjustments can be made, variations measured and action instituted to bring our course back to the guidelines and framework of the Budget contract. Not for one moment was there any intention by this Government to observe that propriety or principle. The announced deficit was always a figure plucked out of the air which the Government felt the nation might accept. It was never the result and, we see today, it is not the result of responsible calculation of a realistic expectation of expenditure over income. Already, before the Senate has received the Appropriation Bills, the frightening and alarming mounting deficit has become so rapidly massive that the deceit of the Government and the enormity of its betrayal stands nakedly and clearly exposed. 
We will no longer accept that things will be all right tomorrow and that we have turned the corner. That statement has been made many, many times in this House by this Government and on the morrow we have been led to even greater disaster, greater irresponsibility and greater shemozzle. It will not be enough to pour out clever and vitriolic rhetoric. Australia has had a surfeit of that. Without one single proposal more than is in the Budget, the deficit is understated by perhaps $ 1 billion. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Book Bounty Bill (No. 2) 1975 for the book bounty is of our own creation. It is a measure of assistance to the Australian printing industry and thus to the Australian publishing industry. This Bill should stimulate the retention of printing work in Australia, and thereby the growth and development of the Australian printing industry. It enables the continuity of employment for a large number of tradesmen in the printing industry and creates job opportunities in the industry for school leavers as apprentices. It enables publishing costs to be more competitive with books produced overseas and imported into Australia. It will enable works with a limited market which might be denied publication by prohibitive production costs but which are valuable work some opportunity to gain publication. An additional advantage in this economic climate is that it is a factor in keeping to more reasonable levels the prices of books to Australian readers. It perhaps will stimulate greater reading activity. That is the broad purpose of the Book Bounty Bill. 
During the financial year ended 30 June 1975, book bounty payments totalled just under $6m. The number of books on which bounty was paid exceeded 35 500 000. 1 ask leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a summary of those figures broken down on a State by State basis. 
-The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  perpetrated a current accusation which is palpably false and on that falls down the whole argument about the role of the Senate. He has accused the Opposition of having the numbers because of the death of a senator whom we also respected. But he knows that this is not so. He knows that both  Senator Bunton,  who replaced  Senator Murphy,  and  Senator Steele  Hall voted with the Government, that  Senator Field  did not vote, and that the very best that the Government could do in the Senate was to have equal numbers in a vote. Surely the honourable member must know that an equal vote in the Senate is a lost vote. 
It was sickening also to hear tonight the Minister who is euphemistically called the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  in a Government which has not cared one iota for the adequate defence of this nation now accuse the Senate of being irresponsible in the matter of defence. The Government prattles on and on about what this and other Bills do. It says: 'We will not be able to pay our bills'. It paints a picture of absolute disaster. Yet, for weeks and weeks, bills have not been paid by this Government. The excuse being given to department after department is that the Government has run out of money. Supply was granted till 30 November. But the Government's prodigal spending has already brought it into trouble- not next month, not even next week, but in truth last week and last month. 
The resolution transmitted to the House of Representatives by the Senate has the absolute, the total, the undivided and resolute support of every member of the Opposition in this place, as it has in the Senate. The resolution indicts a Government which has gone from deceit to deceit and from scandal to scandal. Scapegoat after scapegoat has been demoted, dismissed and discarded as the thread of evidence leads irrevocably towards the top. At the top is a man who says: 'Two of my  Deputy  Prime Ministers who signed the December Executive Council minute with me have lied. They have deceived. They have behaved disgracefully. But I, the Prime Minister, cannot be blamed. I, the only one who signed that Executive Council minute, am the only innocent one. '  'Mr Khemlani  was right', says the Prime Minister, 'about all the others but of me alone this man tells lies '. The Prime Minister says: ' I am the rose among the thorns; the only sweet smell in the pig sty'. 'There has been duplicity', he says. He continues: 'There has been deceit. Parliament has been lied to and the Senate is right. How it grieves me because I am a most righteous man.' 'True', the Prime Minister says, 'the Opposition asked questions. It produced facts and I denied them, because everybody let me down.' But did the Prime Minister make any inquiry? If he did not, he is an absolute failure because that was his duty. If he did, how can he stand up now and say that he did not know? It seems that everyone else in Australia knew- everyone but he. 
Two men who have sat in the Acting Prime Minister's chair have been dismissed in disgrace. The accusations stands unanswered and multiply every day. Yet he who says he did not know refused a properly constituted judicial inquiry. I level at him here and now the charge that those are not the actions of an innocent man anxious to elicit the truth. They suggest implication and they are very indicative of guilt. 
Here in the Senate resolution the charge of deceit and duplicity by the Prime Minister is laidloud and clear- and it is unanswered. The charge is of continuing incompetence which is evidenced by a trail of broken promises, worthless assurances and answers which later are shown to be false. These charges are echoed by Australia's army of unemployed and by those whose savings and life's work have been destroyed, by businessmen who have been forced into bankruptcy and by- those whose only voice is at the ballot box. And now the Prime Minister wants to stifle that voice. 
The charge is here that the Prime Minister has failed to control his Ministers and has proved that he cannot lead a government except from scandal to scandal. He is a Prime Minister who lets heads of colleagues roll, with as little compassion and concern as Madame Defarge He is a Prime Minister who condemns a Minister because he affirms that the Minister must bear responsibility for the actions of his staff but dismisses the valid corollary that a Prime Minister is responsible for the actions of his Ministers. He applied his own rule to others and said they deceived, they misled, they disgraced their office, and they had to go. Therefore, by his same yardstick he must accept the responsibility for that disgrace. They paid the price but the Prime Minister welches on his debt and his responsibility. 
He fights not to preserve democracy; he fights not because of respect or regard for the Constitution, for convention or for propriety. In 1970 he dismissed that stance and he has scorned the Constitution. He has shown contempt for every convention and he has discarded every concept of loyalty. He fights rather to preserve a government not fit and not worthy to be preserved. He fights to perpetuate not a democratic system, for he has contemptuously ground it under foot when ever it suited him. He fights to avoid a day of reckoning, a day of judgment. 
The Prime Minister was able to dismiss the threat of a judicial inquiry by his ruthless marshalling of his yes men, his numbers. He cringes from the bar of justice which will pronounce his guilt and his disgrace- the Australian people and the Australian ballot box. 'Give us a go', he bleats. 'This Budget will work'. Every week we have heard that same nonsense, that same assurance and we have gone from bad to worse. We have heard it every week for 3 years. We have always 'turned the corner'; we are always being shown 'clear signs of recovery.' They have been 3 years of nonsense and of deceit because disaster follows disaster and the road still leads steeply down. 
He says: 'This Budget will work'. But the Budget already has been shown to be deceitful and false and it is now the straw to which the Prime Minister clings. The Senate in this resolution aptly sheets home the charge of continuing mismanagement of the Australian economy. It makes the charge, it proves the guilt and all around this country when we say: 'How say you?' we hear every Australian voice saying: 'Guilty'. 
The Prime Minister says that no charges were made. They were made. They were made again and again, a multitude of them, and the only clear, plain verdict that can be pronounced is 'Guilty' as charged'. Yet the Government brings back this Bill and asks for a blank cheque. It says: 'Yes, we have played up. Yes, we have wrecked the economy. Yes, we have shown that we have no idea of responsibility. Yes, we will deceive. Yes, we will tell falsehoods. We do not even know which way is up; but give us a go, we have only just started. We have been dishonest, but we want you to give us the key to the safety deposit box'. The Constitution which the Prime Minister called archaic, which he has condemned clause by clause, word by word, and which he has contemptuously disregarded, he now pleads condones him, protects him and provides him with a sanctuary. He claimed the divine right to do in 1967 and 1970 what he now condemns the Senate for doing. 
I support the resolution of the Senate. I support the amendment. I repeat the charges and the reasons. They are- continuing incompetence, evasion, massive deceit, duplicity subversion of the Constitution, bypassing of the Parliament, chaos in a cabinet where there is no control and wrecking of the economy. That is the charge contained in the resolution of the Senate and that is the charge that has been proven in a shocking performance over a shocking 3 years. Day by day another assurance is shown to be yet another falsehood. Bit by bit the truth is wrung out and another sacrificial lamb has to be slaughtered. 
The Government of the day is whistling outside of the cemetery because it knows its day of reckoning is looming closely and its fears are well justified because its sins have found it out. It accuses the Opposition of a grab for power. What nonsense! Only the people at the ballot box confer power, and this Government knows full well that they also take it away, and that is what they are now about to do. The deceit must end. The falsehood and the lies must cease. The disaster and the disgrace must terminate. This Senate, this responsible Senate, has forced the Australian Government to the final court of appeal- the ultimate bar of justice- where this Government's condemnation will be final and complete. 
In speaking to this Bill tonight the Minister for Defence talked great words about defence. This Bill also is a subterfuge. It is a blank cheque. It is a dishonest way to appropriate funds. Appropriation for defence purposes was not made in the right and proper way. The money is to be appropriated from Loan Funds. I spoke about that in the initial debate. I accept no precedent. It does not matter whether it has been done in the past, whether it was right or wrong in the past. It is a wrong principle and I do not accept it. I accept the Senate's resolution and we on this side of the House, no matter how many times this is brought back into this House, will vote to reject completely motions like that which the Minister has moved tonight. I repeat that the Opposition's amendment is that the House of Representatives endorses message number 275 of the Senate- the message that tells of the deceit, the duplicity and the dishonesty- and in particular that the Bill will be not proceeded with until the Government agrees to submit itself to the judgment of the people. I wonder why it is afraid? 
-Does the AttorneyGeneral confirm that his advice as AttorneyGeneral to the Prime Minister, as reported extensively in the Press, was that if the Senate failed to pass the Appropriation Bills they should be presented nevertheless to the Governor-General for his assent and signature? Is that still his advice, and does he adhere to it? 
For the information of honourable members I present a Green Paper entitled  Towards New Perspectives for Australian Meteorological Services. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission Act 1975 I present the first annual report of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
I seek the indulgence of the House to make a small correction to an answer I gave during question time today. In dealing with the disturbance at Bundaberg over the weekend I stated that the information I had from the Bureau of Meteorology was that there was a high pressure system. That surprised me so I sought to verify it. It was a low pressure system and I would like to correct that small error which will appear in  Hansard. 
I recognise the concern of the honourable gentleman at the devastation that was caused in Bundaberg and also Maryborough last weekend. The destructive winds which struck Bundaberg last weekend were associated with an intense low pressure system. The radar station at Gladstone had the Bundaberg area under surveillance prior to and during the storm but the radar information did not show the characteristics of a tropical cyclone. 
From the information available there was no indication that winds would exceed 40 knots. In the event, a mean speed of 60 knots was reached. The radar station referred to by the honourable member is not automatic and it is manned only at times when tropical cyclones or severe storms are suspected to be developing in the area. On the weekend of 21 and 22 February the Bureau of Meteorology judged that it was not necessary to man the station. The Mount Kanighan radar is part of the Bureau's eastern radar network and covers the coast from Byron Bay to Bundaberg. The Gladstone radar station covers the coast from Hervey Bay to St Lawrence. It is planned to convert the station to automatic operation in October 1976 in time for the next cyclone season. In the meantime it will continue to be manned when necessary - 
I am quite happy to table the document because it does contain some specific information to which I have to refer. There is no objection at all to the document being tabled. That station will continue to be manned when necessary, taking full account of the meteorological information available. 
Pursuant to section 24(4) of the Metric Conversion Act 1970-1973 I present the fifth annual report of the Metric Conversion Board for the year ended 30 June 1975 together with a statement by the Minister for Science relating to that report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on research sponsored by the Advisory Committee on Research into the Crown of Thorns Starfish. 
Yes, my attention has been drawn to that statement and other statements attributed to informed sources or unnamed sources. I deplore such statements because they add unnecessary distress and torment to many people in Darwin who have suffered enough from the effects of cyclone Tracy. Within a few hours I will be making a fuller statement on the concessional home loans scheme. However, the facts briefly are these: The previous Government appropriated a sum of $4m for this purpose, and it was totally insufficient. Already $3m more has been allotted, as the honourable member has indicated, and the allocation of a further sum substantially in excess of $ lm will be announced later today. This means that this Government already has considerably more than doubled the appropriation which the previous Government deemed to be sufficient but which was totally insufficient. 
For the information of honourable members I present the monthly reports on the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for October, November and December 1975 and January 1976. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of these reports have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I have seen such reports. They do not fairly present the situation. It is well known that the Government is reviewing all expenditure programs. It is true also that no part of Australia more than the Northern Territory has more to fear from inflation. There has been a deferral of certain civil works in the Northern Territory, but the statement that the Government is unaware of or unsympathetic to the private sector and unmindful of the fact that the private sector is dependent on public sector expenditure in the Territory is not a fair statement. Indeed it was not pointed out, for instance, that in Darwin within the last few weeks something like $18m has been provided in excess of the appropriation for the home loans scheme and the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. That is not only to help the private sector to keep going; it also takes into consideration the humane aspect of getting houses for the people of Darwin. I do not know the source of the figures. However, it ought to be kept in mind that the projects to be deferred are still subject to review. It is important also to emphasise that the actual cash flow effected in 1975-76 would represent only a small proportion of the actual value of the projects. Nor did the report point out that work already in progress outside Darwin, valued at something like $170m this year, should maintain a high cash flow over the balance of the present year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) CSIRO is not undertaking any such surveys. 
Not applicable. 
Pursuant to section 19 (2) of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970-73 I present the annual report of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board for the year ended 30 June 1975, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1 972-73 1 present the annual report of the Council of the Institute of Marine Science for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
My detailed enquiries have satisfied me that an unjustified attack on the Central Office of the Department has been maintained over many months. I think it appropriate to take issue with the more serious allegations that have been made. I deal first with the three specific items mentioned in the question: 
There is no evidence to substantiate charges that the Department sees a science council as a threat and has therefore sought to curb the role of the interim Australian Science and Technology Council (ASTEC). On the contrary, looking back over departmental papers I find that the Permanent Head advocated over four years ago the need for a science council to advise on strategic issues in science policy. That the Department of Science has never departed from that position is evidenced by the fact that, had it not intervened, two major issues might well have been decided without the matters being referred to ASTEC for advice. Turning to more recent events I reject the absurd claim in the  Canberra Times  of 24 February that the Department executed a 'tactical masterstroke' by prompting me to suggest a cut of $94,000 in ASTEC 's budget for the present financial year. The fact is that the Department did no more than respond to my directions in relation to various decisions taken by the Government. 
The allegations in  Search  of March 1976 are serious ones and I view them as such. In regard to the cut by the Labor Government in funds for the Australian Research Grants Committee it was stated that the Department- and I quote- 'either did not realise the implications or, as seems more likely, failed to take adequate action such as informing Treasury in sufficiently strong terms, or their own Minister (or Acting Minister) before the Budget was finalised'. This assertion amounts to a charge of incompetence or gross dereliction of duty. Since the matter at issue was one before the Labor Cabinet in its 1975-76 budget discussions, the relevant Ministerial and Cabinet papers are not available to me. However on the basis of the Departmental files I am in no doubt that the Department acted promptly, competently and with propriety. I am at a loss to account for the charge made in  Search;  at best it is founded on speculation and correspondingly irresponsible; at worst the writer has allowed himself to be deceived by false information. I should add that the writer did not approach me or the Department to ascertain the facts or to check the accuracy of his comments prior to publication. 
Since assuming responsibility for the portfolio, I have looked closely into the Department's management and operations. Nothing that has come to my attention would support a charge that the Department is poorly administered from the Central Office. On the contrary, I find reason to associate myself with the Honourable Clyde Cameron, the then Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, who paid a generous tribute to senior officials of the Central Office in Parliament on 8 October 1 975 ( Hansard p 1 853- 1 854). If there is any need for change, it would seem to be more in the direction of strengthening Central Office oversight of activities elsewhere in the Department. I am aware of complaints that access to me is in some way barred; some such complaints have actually been made to me. However, nothing that has come to my notice would in any way substantiate these complaints. On the contrary a relatively large number of officials of the Department have been in direct contact with me on specific matters falling within their areas of individual responsibility and expertise. I value such contacts and I have every reason to believe that it has long been the policy of the Permanent Head to encourage such approaches. 
Other allegations have been made by the author of the articles in The  Canberra Times  that relate to matters put to the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. It would not be proper for me to comment on those subjects at present, though 1 will be doing so at the appropriate time. 
It occurs to me however that the articles put a one-sided case in circumstances where it was to be expected that those accused could not publicly state the case in rebuttal. 
I draw attention to the fact that some of the claims made in those articles include elementary misstatements of fact which are used to support such allegations as that the Central Office had 'been engaged for more than a year in a concerted attempt to downgrade the status and "identity "of one of the most long-established of its component parts, the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories'. I give a simple example. The article of 26 February states ' In last year s Australian Government Directory,  Dr Peters  is listed simply as assistant secretary, analytical services. In the 1972 edition he was styled Australian Government Analyst and listed separately from the regular departmental hierarchy'. Reference to the Australian Government Directories of 1974 and 1975, and to the Guide to Commonwealth Departments of 1976 will reveal that the facts are otherwise. 
To conclude, I see no need for action by me in relation to the administration of the Department by its Permanent Head and Central Office. I am however writing to the editor of  Search  to suggest to him that an appropriate apology for the accusation against the Department is called for. I am also writing to the editor of the  Canberra Times  to draw his attention to my views about the attacks made on the Department. 

 - Mr Speaker, I will be referring to 2 documents. As members of the Opposition are such avid readers and desire good literature, at the end of my answer I will table the document that is not confidential. I appreciate the question asked by my colleague, that very forthright advocate and splendid member for the Northern Territory. I am aware of the recent severe floodings in the Northern Territory. One of the documents which I have is a flood report and a situation report, which reports are furnished to me daily by my Department. As the honourable member knows, my Department has been involved in a number of emergency evacuations during the current wet season. Flooding has been particularly severe in recent months; but one of the pleasing features is that on this occasion the damage and the hardship have been relatively slight, although, as the honourable member mentioned, there are instances of more severe damage. On the question of relief assistance, officers of my Department have had lengthy discussions with the Department of Social Security. I am anxious to ensure that eligible claims for financial assistance are determined as quickly as possible. I have instructed my Department to give every possible assistance to facilitate early consideration of any such claims. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Some two years ago, the Western Australian Department of Agriculture asked CSIRO for assistance in studying annual rye grass toxicity. The Department stressed the importance of the problem, which had already been under investigation by the CSIRO Division of Animal Health in a less acute form. 
A closely co-operative investigation was set up between the Department and the CSIRO Division of Animal Health and has continued as a matter of priority in both of these. The investigations have reached a promising stage where a bacterial infection of the seed can definitely be identified as the source of the toxin, and new information on the nature of the toxin is coming to light. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) A large number of organisations instituted appeals on behalf of the people of Darwin immediately after cyclone Tracy. 
Collections were made in communities throughout Australia and in countries overseas. 
At the instigation of the Government a Trust Fund was established to receive the monies received through the various appeals. At the same time a Mayor's Trust Fund was also established by the Mayor of Darwin, and some monies were paid into the latter fund. The two Funds were, shortly after, merged into the single Fund which is now known as the ' Darwin Cyclone Tracy Trust Fund '. 
Not all of the organisations which conducted appeals paid the monies collected by them into the 'Darwin Cyclone Tracy Trust Fund'. Some organisations themselves disbursed the monies collected by them as various forms of assistance to cyclone victims. 
The total amount received into the Trust Fund is $8,090,339. The amount received by organisations which did not pay monies into the Trust Fund is not known. 
The Government undertook to provide the staff necessary to administer the Trust Fund and to meet all expenses associated with the administration of the Fund. This undertaking has been honoured. 
The funds raised for the Darwin Appeal were not intended to be applied by the Government for the reconstruction of Darwin and were not in fact so used. The monies were intended to assist those who suffered losses as a result of the cyclone and in general have been applied by the Trustees of the Fund in assisting people to re-establish their households. 
The reconstruction of Darwin is entirely separate from the Relief Fund exercise. There are three main ways in which the Government has moved to re-establish housing in Darwinfirstly, by providing a long term loan at 6 per cent interest to assist private house building; secondly, by providing greatly enlarged capital grants to the Northern Territory Housing Commission for the provision of rental homes for private persons; and thirdly, by an accelerated staff housing programme. 
The latter, together with construction of all Government work in Darwin has been entrusted to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. Private reconstruction is being further assisted by compensation grants of SO per cent of uninsured losses. These are paid by the Government and are over and above payouts by the Insurance industry which are reported to have exceeded $200 million for the private sector. 
The Relief Trust Fund is disbursed by means of a Trust Deed by which the Minister for the Northern Territory appointed a number of persons as Trustees of the 'Darwin Cyclone Tracy Trust Fund'. The Minister for the Northern Territory is Chairman of Trustees. Payments from the Trust Fund are made in accordance with directions issued from time to time from the Trustees. The Trustees meet regularly and report each month to the Parliament. 
As at 1 March 1976 the balance in the Trust Fund was $1,085,586. Payments are continuing to those eligible for grants ($200 per family and $100 per single person), in accordance with the guidelines established by the Trust. The Trustees have set aside monies from overseas donated for the specific purpose of establishing a cultural centre in Darwin. Decisions have yet to be made by the Trustees in relation to the remaining funds of approximately $877,000. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. Refer to (4) below. 
Control methods being studied in Chile may be applicable to Australia. 
Scientists at the Keith Turnbull Research Institute (of the Vermin and Noxious Weeds Destruction Board in Victoria), as a first step towards the biological control of blackberry, have sent seeds of the two main Australian species of blackberry to Chile for specificity tests with a fungal pathogen identified there. This fungus  (Phragmidium violaceum)  is severely affecting the two Australian species and may provide a means of biological control, but an extensive screening of a range of potential host plants would be needed here before it could be released. 
I am unaware of any other research being undertaken on alternative forms of blackberry control in Australia. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Because of the risk of the oriental fruit fly entering Australia, the Officer-in-Charge of the Fruit Fly Research Unit of CSIRO's Division of Entomology has long maintained close contact with overseas research workers concerned with its control or eradication. However, research could not be undertaken until it was discovered in northern Australia in late 1975. 
Since the discovery of the oriental fruit fly in Australia, CSIRO's Division of Entomology has been closely involved in attempts to control it. This has included supervision of the aerial spraying campaign on Melville Island where the insect was first found, and collaboration with Departmental officers from Queensland, the Northern Territory and Western Australia, in planning the monitoring of the distribution of the fly in northern Australia, and the prevention of its spread to the southern States. The Division has also drawn up contingency research plans, the implementation of which will depend on whether it is decided to attempt to eradicate the pest or to contain it in northern Australia. 
To help provide a sound basis for decisions on future action, the Officer-in-Charge of the Fruit Fly Research Unit recently travelled overseas for discussions with specialists in countries which have attempted to eradicate the oriental fruit fly. He presented his report and recommendations to a meeting of the Exotic Fruit Fly Working Party of the Standing Committee on Agriculture held in Brisbane on 22 and 23 April. In the meantime, CSIRO's Division of Entomology has established cultures of the strain of the oriental fruit fly present in northern Australia. Large-scale breeding cultures will be essential if it is decided to attempt eradication using the sterile insect technique. If eradication is not attempted, such cultures will be equally needed for the development of effective commodity treatment techniques for produce shipped from the Northern Territory to the southern States. 
The long-term value of a successful eradication campaign would be influenced by the likelihood of further introductions of the fly from Papua New Guinea or other islands to the north of Australia where it is known to occur. It is of major importance to determine whether fruit flies are transported from these areas to the Australian mainland on prevailing winds. A special radar unit developed by the Division of Entomology for studies on the aerial dispersal of locusts is being modified to carry out appropriate studies in the north during the next wet season. This work will involve the services of the Officer-in-Charge of the locust research unit and a Divisional engineer, together with assistance in the operation of the highly-specialised radar installation by an officer of the Centre for Overseas Pest Research, a British organisation with which the Division has collaborated for some years. 
Funding of the programs outlined above has been provided by the Department of Health. 
2 ) As explained above, studies have begun. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department with the co-operation of the Departmenof Health, CSIRO and the Queensland Department of Primary Industries conducted a suppression campaign using protein hydrolysate and malathion insecticide. The campaign was commenced shortly after the first positive identification of oriental fruit fly was made in the Northern Territory in November last year. The suppression campaign ceased in January 1976. The decision not to proceed further with the suppression was not taken lightly in view of the possible threat to Australian fruit industries and was based on 4 main factors. 
1 ) The extremely heavy wet season rains at the time was reducing the effectiveness of the spray and causing serious logistical problems in the supply of the chemicals. 
Environmental considerations especially in Darwin where there had been an unusually heavy use of insecticide in the area following cyclone Tracy. 
Mounting scientific opinion that the infestation was not new. This question had been raised following the results of an intensive trapping program which showed a very wide distribution. The insect is now known to occupy the entire top end westward to Kununurra and south to Newcastle Waters. It has now been confirmed that oriental fruit fly has existed in the Northern Territory since 1964. 
The lack of any apparent effect on cultivated fruit. This has also been confirmed since January by intensive surveys of over 300 household gardens in Darwin which have failed to show any infestations in cultivated fruit. 
Although suppression has been suspended and eradication now appears to be technically not possible, other measures have been pursued. Quarantine precautions recommended by the Australian Agricultural Council have been investigated and a report prepared by my Department and the Department of Health outlining staff and facilities required will be available shortly 
Funds for all aspects of the oriental fruit fly campaign have been provided from a $ 1.803m allocation made available by the Minister for Health. Expenditure to date and anticipated commitments to 30 June 1 976 total $805,250. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may 1 have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Stevedoring Industry Charge Amendment 
Bill 1976 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members on this side of the House will know that the aim of the Government, and a clear commitment in our election policy announcements, is to bring the Northern Territory to ultimate statehood. This aim was reflected in the Governor-General's Speech on 17 February last, in the following words: 
In line with its policy of developing governmental authority, the Government will progressively act to confer executive responsibility on the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory with the objective of advancing the Territory to statehood. 
The Northern Territory is poised on the threshold of an important period in its history. The Territory's resources, particularly its minerals, are only just beginning to be tapped in a major way. In 1974-75, for example, mineral output was valued at $140m, an increase of 75 per cent over that of 1972-73. The more important minerals produced are manganese, gold, copper, bauxite, alumina and bismuth. Its uranium reserves are of world significance, as also is the McArthur River lead-zinc deposit. Oil has been discovered in the Mereenie Basin and offshore exploration is continuing. Mineral output from the Territory will become an important factor in the nation's trading position during the 1980s. 
In many ways, the Territory is in a position not dissimilar to that of several of the Australian States, or colonies as they then were, in the latter -half of the nineteenth century. Its population is now of the order of 100 000, including about 25 000 Aboriginal people. This population constitutes something less than 1 per cent of the total Australian population but those people inhabit approximately 17 per cent of the total Australian land mass. It is worth noting that the State of Queensland, when it attained responsible government in 1859, had a population of a little over 30 000. South Australia had approximately 85 000, and Tasmania 81 000, inhabitants when they were granted responsible Government in 1856. 
The unique nature of the Territory's physical environment has bred in, or attracted to it, a special kind of people. Despite many hardships and disappointments they have established themselves and their families in the Territory on rural properties, isolated settlements and towns of great character and vitality. With its known natural resources guaranteeing it a secure economic base, allied with the strength, resourcefulness and initiative of its people and under the guiding hand of the Territory's own fully elected legislature, the future of the Territory must surely be bright. 
As promised, this Government, immediately on being elected, began moves towards executive responsibility for the Legislative Assembly based on the recommendations of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Northern Territory which inquired into constitutional development in the Northern Territory- recommendations which were available to the previous government for 12 months. That report, which was presented to the Parliament by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  as  Chairman  of the Committee, has made a valuable contribution to the Territory's constitutional development. The Government will continue to have regard to many of the Committee's recommendations as we proceed with the devolution of executive autonomy. Our immediate aim is the transfer of executive responsibility for the Northern Territory Public Service and a large number of Northern Territory statutory authorities, broadly along the lines suggested in the report of the Parliamentary Joint Committee. 
Since this Government took office, a number of discussions have been held with members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly on the transfer of executive responsibility. A consultative committee, consisting of the Minister for the Northern Territory and members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, has been established to consider the issues involved in the transfer of executive powers. As the first step in this process, I have reached accord with the Executive of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly that the Northern Territory (Administration) Act be amended along the lines set down in this Bill. The provisions in the Bill are designed to enable the Government progressively to transfer adminstrative responsibility to a Northern Territory executive. 
I want to emphasise that the passage of this Bill Will represent one of the most significant events in the Northern Territory 's history. Whilst I welcome the action taken in 1974 to establish a fully elected Legislative Assembly, there was little point in bringing that about without the transfer to the Assembly of real powers and responsibilities. Indeed, the previous Government promised that not only would a fully elected Legislative Assembly be established for the Territory; it also promised increasing autonomy to the Territory through that Assembly. However, when the Australian Labor Party was absolutely rejected by Northern Territory electors, the promises and assurances were speedily forgotten and the Assembly ignored. 
I turn now to the BUI. As I have said, it is directed principally at making the legislative changes necessary to facilitate the progressive transfer of executive responsibility to the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory by amending the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910-1974. Clauses 1 and 2 of the BUI are formal provisions and cover citation and commencement. The BUI is to come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation. Clauses 3, 4 and 5 are interpretive and technical and insert additional definitions and revise the headings to parts II and IV of the principal Act. Clause 6 repeals sections 4ZA and 4zb of the principal Act dealing with the Administrator's Council, its composition, appointments thereto and its functions. It renames the Council as the Executive Council of the Northern Territory of 
Australia, lays down its membership and provides for its procedures. It enables the Administrator to attend aU meetings of the Council and to preside at meetings at which he is present. The clause sets down consequential interpretive provisions. 
Clause 7 inserts a new part in the principal Act enabling the Administrator, after consultation with the Minister, to determine the number of offices of executive members of the Legislative Assembly and their respective designations. It further enables the Administrator, after consultation with the Minister, to determine the matters in respect of which the holder of an executive office performs his functions as executive member. Those matters will be all matters arising under specified laws of the Territory- other than Commonwealth laws- and matters to which the function of a specified Department of the Public Service of the Territory relate. Determinations by the Administrator under this part are to be published in the Government  Gazette  of the Territory. 
This part further establishes the functions of an executive member as being to assist in the administration of the Government of the Territory with respect to the matters within his control but subject to the directions, if any, of the Administrator. In particular, an executive member is enabled to formulate policies and plans and proposals for expenditure in relation to such matters, to make recommendations to the Executive Council of the Northern Territory in relation to those matters, to administer specified laws within his control and to direct activities of a specified Department of the Public Service of the Territory. Directions by the Administrator under this part are not to be given until the Council has had the opportunity to tender advice. Whilst the Administrator is not bound to accept such advice, if he does not he must cause a statement of his reasons to be laid before the Legislative Assembly within a specified period. This part further provides for the appointment of an executive member and the termination of such appointment. It also provides for the tenure of such office and an oath or affirmation of office. Clause 8 provides for consequential technical amendments to the schedules to the Act. 
The introduction of this BUI gives me great pleasure and satisfaction. The BUI represents a major step forward in the Territory's progress towards executive autonomy. The authority and responsibility which this BUI bestows on the Territory 's Legislative Assembly reflects the Government's confidence in the democratic process and its commitment to the Federal system of government. It is tangible evidence of the Government's determination to give effect to its election undertakings on the constitutional development of the Northern Territory. The transfer of authority which will flow from this measure will impose serious responsibilities on the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. For the first time in its history it will be a responsible legislature in the constitutional sense. The Government looks to, and is confident of the ability of, the Legislative Assembly to meet that responsibility. 
It is appropriate and laudable that the people of the Northern Territory should, at this stage in their history, seek largely to control their own affairs. The Government is determined that this desire will be fulfilled as quickly and effectively as possible and this Bill is an important step towards the realisation of that aim. It is, most importantly, an indication that the Government intends to work in a spirit of amicable cooperation with the people of the Territory and their elected representatives in the task of giving birth to Australia's seventh State. As such, I feel sure that it will command the support of all honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
CSIRO is doing research on annual ryegrass toxicity, and in the six years to 30 June 1976 will have spent approximately $168,000 on it. I understand that other organizations which have studied or are studying this problem include: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Total expenditure on the Stuart Highway between Darwin and Larrimah in the last three financial years-1973-74 to 1975-76- is as follows: 
It might be well to remember why we have problems with the North Australia Railway. The problem of Frances Creek can be sheeted home very directly to the previous Government which raised freight rates so high that the whole venture became totally uneconomic. The questions that the honourable member has raised are at present the subject of discussions between myself and the Minister for Transport. Further information will be given by the Minister for Transport at an appropriate time 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Science paid the following amounts to airlines for air travel within Australia for the two year period from 1 April 1974 to 31 March 1976. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's answer to question on notice No. 526  (Hansard,  26 May 1976, page 2525). 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
Solar energy research in Australia is being conducted by CSIRO, some universities and tertiary institutions, and industry. The work by CSIRO and work under the auspices of the Australian Research Grants Committee (ARGC) is summarised below. The Senate Standing Committee on National Resources is currently inquiring into solar energy and the results of that inquiry when available will provide additional information. 
Work conducted by CSIRO concerns the following applications: domestic water heating industrial water heating space heating space cooling power production distillation controlled environment horticulture heat storage production of energy from crops, forests and other organic material swimming pool heating. 
Work funded by ARGC grant encompasses the following topics: selective surfaces as solar energy absorbers photo-voltaic and thermoelectric conversion of solar energy to electricity solar energy concentrators solar energy systems evaluation heat and mass transfer theory applied to solar airconditioning. 
Expenditure last financial year and estimated expenditure for this year by CSIRO is as follows: 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Three persons are employed full time in the Department in a staff recruitment capacity on a combined annual salary of $22,818; there are no persons employed full time on a staff recruitment capacity by agencies responsible to the Minister. 
and (3) nil. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service may be requested on a limited basis to assist in finding suitable persons to fill short term casual vacancies for agencies responsible to the Minister. There is no payment made by the agencies or the Department for this service. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) That is not so. The requirements for packaging smallgoods are incorporated in uniform Commonwealth and State legislation as recommended by the Standing Committee on Packaging. Where goods are not packed in the recommended rounded metric quantities they must be accompanied by a statement of the price per kilogram. Similar requirements applied previously under the imperial system when goods packed in non-rounded imperial sizes had to show the price per pound as well. 
Formerly certain prescribed goods such as sugar and butter could be packed only in a specified series of imperial sizes. As from 1 January 1976 these goods can be packed only in a specified series of metric sizes. Packers were given ample notice of the new range and no difficulties have been reported. 
If there are any specific cases of difficulty, I would be pleased to examine them. 
Repackaging is not required. 
in reply- I thank both the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  for their contribution to the debate, and I thank the honourable member for Blaxland and the Opposition for their co-operation and assistance in getting this Bill through quickly, because we do want this Bill passed in both Houses before the Parliament adjourns for the winter recess. It will allow us to get on with the job we have in hand. The honourable member for Blaxland talked about the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  making an extravagant promise of statehood for the Northern Territory. That was a commitment. 
This Bill shows our good faith in making that commitment. We are absolutely determined that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly will have increasing autonomy and that the Territory will be taken forward to statehood, which it has long expected. I remind the honourable member that other States received statehood when they had a lot less population than the Northern Territory and when they were probably a long way behind the Territory in its present situation. The charge that the Government has cut spending in the Territory ignores the fact that the reduction about which the honourable member talked was in forward estimates. There will be a real increase in expenditure in 1976-77 on what was spent in 1975-76. It ill behoved the honourable member to say that no Liberal-Country Party Government would think of spending something like $92m on reconstruction following a national disaster. I remind him that in 1976-77 the Darwin Reconstruction Commission alone will get something like $139m. There will be $2 1.3m for housing in Darwin alone and $ 11.5m for the home loans trustee. I think that effectively answers the statement that the honourable member made. 
I thank too the honourable member for the Northern Territory for his contribution. I recognise his constant advocacy for the Territory over a very long period. I think this Bill and the progress made along the path towards increasing autonomy are due very much to his persistent presentation of the needs of the Territory over a ong time in this place.  Dr Letts  the Majority Leader in the Legislative Assembly has had a long association with the Territory and has long sought autonomy for the Territory. I note that the honourable member for the Northern Territory said that the Assembly needs the backing of civil servants. This is long overdue and it is another thing on which we have already commenced work. I recognise that it is only a commencement in that the Territory now has an establishment. That is the beginning of the sort of picture that the honourable member for the Northern Territory was painting. I thank honourable members for their contribution and for their assistance in getting this legislation through the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A Sub-committee appointed by the Ayers Rock Advisory Committee have selected the final consultants to undertake preparation of a town plan for a new tourist village outside the present park boundary. Engagement of the selected consultant will be dependent on the availability of funds. 
The Avers Rock Advisory Committee was established in March 1974 to advise and assist the Northern Territory Reserves Board to implement particular proposals including the development of a comprehensive plan of management which would include the siting of a new tourist village outside the present park boundary. A town plan brief of the proposed new tourist village was advertised in June 1975. It is expected that the selected consultant, if appointed shortly, would complete the commission of detailed plans and reports, including a comprehensive environmental impact statement by late 1977. 
Redevelopment of the national park is largely dependent on relocation of tourist facilities in the proposed new village outside the boundaries of the park. All existing tourist leases have been acquired and some short term lease-back arrangements have been made with existing lessess pending establishment of the new tourist village. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's reply to Question No. 526,  Hansard,  page 2525 of 26 May 1976. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The meteorological office at Woomera was established primarily to provide services for weapon trials conducted by the Weapons Research Establishment. In conformity with the reduced requirements for these services, the Bureau of Meteorology will withdraw its forecasting staff from the Woomera after 30 June 1976. Forecasting services that may be required from time to time during the phasing down period will be provided by the Bureau's Regional Forecasting Centre at Adelaide. 
However, the Bureau intends to maintain a program of meteorological observations at Woomera because of their value for aviation and general forecasting. 
Woomera is the only location on the Adelaide-Alice Springs air route, in addition to the terminal points, where high level wind and temperature observations are carried out. Observations of high level winds, but not temperatures, are made at Oodnadatta. 
As Woomera meteorological observations will still be available there will be no change in the nature of the information provided by the Bureau of Meteorology for aviation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of staff currently engaged on full-time recruitment, publicity, selection and appointment of staff, including the routine processing functions for the Department of the Northern Territory Public Service, is eight and the annual cost in salaries is $75,538.00. 
Recruitment functions are carried out by the Northern Territory Port Authority, the Northern Territory Housing Commission and the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. The Port Authority utilises 23 per cent of one person's time at a cost of $2,790.00, the Housing Commission utilises 20 per cent of one person's time at an annual cost of $2,230.00, while the Darwin Reconstruction Commission utilises 30 per cent of one person 's time at an annual cost of $4,000.00. 
The department and the boards and authorities do not engage private employment agencies to assist in recruitment of staff. 
Nil. 
The department, as well as the boards and authorities mentioned above, utilises the services of the Commonwealth Employment Service, Darwin, on an ad hoc basis, usually for such positions as day labourer, storeman, etc. There is no charge made for services they render. 
the Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Establishment and spread of beetles in northern areas of Australia has continued and there are now two species  (Onthophagus gazella  and  Euonitocellus intermedius)  which occupy between them virtually the whole of the continent north of a line joining Exmouth in the west to Dubbo in the east. Another two species  (Sisyphus spinipes  and  Liatongus militaris)  have multiplied dramatically in the Rockhampton area and are rapidly spreading although, even with human assistance, they will require some years to occupy all suitable areas. During the moist summer months all four of these species already occur in such numbers as to dispose rapidly or very large quantities of dung. 
Similarly in New South Wales at Narrabri and surrounding districts, dung pads are being rapidly destroyed by introduced beetles, mainly  E. intermedius, E. africanus, O. gazella  and  Onitis alexis.  Studies in that area provide strong circumstantial evidence that bush fly numbers have been substantially reduced by dung beetle activity. Apart from establishing a significant population of beetles in northern Australia, these first years of the project have enabled much basic and vital research to be done on the biology, distribution, and breeding of the beetles. That research is now paying handsome dividends in speeding up the rate of establishment of new beetles in Australia. 
So far, 24 species of beetles have been released, 13 of which are known to have become established. In all, approximately one million beetles have been distributed in all Australian States. 
(a) Most of northern Australia already has a useful beetle population, although, in terms of the number of species present, it cannot yet be regarded as adequate. There are important gaps yet to be filled but some of the fifteen new species now being bred in Canberra are expected to make a significant contribution. 
A suitable variety has not yet become established in south-eastern Australia, but one species  (Onthophagus binodis)  has begun to build up its numbers in south-western Australia, in the vicinity of Perth. In addition, a beetle  (Hister nomas)  that is predaceous on dung-breeding fly larvae has colonised a large part of coastal New South Wales down to the Victorian border. 
Yes. Beatles for southern Australia are now being collected in areas with closely matching climate regimes. These include regions of northern Iran, northern Turkey, Morocco, Spain and western France. 
5 ) Approximately S 1 ,200,000 over a ten-year period. 
Collection of beetles overseas, initial egg production in South Africa, mass breeding in Australia, subsequent release and establishment are all time-consuming operations on which it is virtually impossible to put a precise time scale. This is especially true of beetles for southern Australia where low winter temperatures (in the east) and summer drought (in the west) restrict beetle activity to about half of each year. 
Probably another ten years is the rninimum required to ensure that beetles will be established all over Australia. By that time, careful selection of the most effective species should have ensured a greatly improved level of dung disposal in all the major climatic zones of Australia, but there will still be very many species left in the Old World to supplement their activities if necessary. 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Donations totalling $8,142,275 had been received by the Trust Fund as at 30 June 1 976. 
At the same date $7,574,497 has been expended under the following broad heads: 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I thank the honourable member for his interest in this matter and for his thoughtful and helpful suggestion. As the honourable member is aware the responsibility for establishing and maintaining correct metric usage rests with the Metric Conversion Board. Accordingly, rather than communicate personally to those who consistently mispronounce kilometre and other metric terms, I have passed his suggestion to the Board for implementation if it considers that appropriate. 
Recognising the role which the media has to play in this matter the Board has, from the outset, maintained close contact with the media and has issued and distributed widely a pamphlet 'Guide to Metric Reporting'. It has also cooperated closely with the Standing Committee on Spoken English of the ABC to develop and maintain good pronounciation of metric terms. When errors are detected the Board 's officers contact the individuals concerned and their suggestions are generally received favourably. 
In view of the progress made towards complete conversion and the current widespread use of metric terms, the Board is planning a further approach to all sections of the media to promote correct metric usage. 
For the information of honourable members I present the monthly reports on the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for February, March, April, May and June 1976 together with a review of activities for the year ended 30 June 1976. Due to the limited numbers available reference copies of these papers have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
For the information of honourable members, I present an agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on scientific and technological cooperation. 
-Yes, my attention has been drawn to that call, which seems a somewhat lonely call. The Government believes at this stage that the electors of the Northern Territory seem to have voted very decisively on the issue of Statehood for the Northern Territory at 2 electionsthe Legislative Assembly election and the Federal election. That was a policy point which was put to the people of the Northern Territory. Also, the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory, on which all parties were represented, expressed most strongly the point of view that autonomy should devolve upon the Northern Territory Assembly. So I believe that the people of the Northern Territory have expressed themselves very clearly on this point. The Government has shown its integrity and its commitment, in a very practical way, by the recent transfer of substantial powers to the Assembly. In the last session during the debate on the Northern Territory (Administration) Amendment Bill, which provided Executive Members for the Northern Territory Assembly, I was pleased that all parties fully supported the Bill. 
I thank honourable members for their contributions as they related to the estimates for the Department of the Northern Territory. I, too, am sorry that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has left the chamber because he has an intriguing and peculiar philosophy. I know that he was speaking in the context of the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory, but he referred to the evolution of government. Over the years the Northern Territory has seen that evolution often means a backward step. The Northern Territory has waited so long for so little. It has been promised so much and nothing has been delivered. The Northern Territory had a right to feel frustrated because of the treatment that it had received from the central government in Canberra. The honourable member for Wills also tried to blame the electoral system for the debacle which occurred in the Northern Territory at the last Legislative Assembly election and for the lack of membership of the Australian Labor Party in the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. That did not occur because of a gerrymander; it did not occur because of the electoral system; it occurred because of the decisive judgment of the people. It was a judgment on a government that had failed the Northern Territory and Australia. That judgment in the Northern Territory was followed soon afterwards by similar judgments in Queensland and in the rest of Australia. 
My colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  identified another fallacy in the argument of the honourable member for Wills who tried to blame this Government for what he called the collapse of the railway in the north. As the honourable member for the Northern Territory has pointed out, the collapse of the railway in the north was the direct result of the action of the Labor Government. The closure of the Frances Creek mine was the reason for the collapse of the railway in the north. The honourable member for the Northern Territory also exposed the reason why Frances Creek was closed. It was because of the freights, costs and charges imposed by the Labor Government. The Labor Government made jolly sure that Frances Creek would not survive. But the railway has not been permanently closed. It will operate again when it is economically justifiable for it to do so. The Northern Territory could be on the verge of very great advances. 
I am pleased that the honourable member for the Northern Territory had an opportunity to speak on these estimates. He referred to the work of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. It is true that Darwin is a city that has almost been rebuilt. I have been advised by the  Chairman  of the DRC that at present it is building about 42 houses a week. It is completing 6 houses a day, 7 days a week. So the slack is being taken up. Also, I hope that very shortly the number of houses being completed will be increased to 8 houses a day, 7 days a week. By the end of next year the DRC will have done such a good job that there will be more permanent houses and residential units in Darwin than there were before cyclone Tracy. I commend the co-operation that I have received from the  Chairman  and officers of the DRC and I commend them on the task that they are carrying out in the Northern Territory. 
I took note of the remarks of the honourable member for the Northern Territory on constitutional development of the Northern Territory. I know that what we have been able to do in this regard pleases him. It is the result of his advocacy over such a long time. He has pointed out how the Northern Territory was promised so much and given so little. He has fought long and hard for the Northern Territory in this place, on many platforms and in many forums. I am delighted that he and I can now work together on bringing to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory what the Australian Labor Party promised, did not deliver and in fact started to take away. 
It was irresponsible. Its actions were a betrayal. It was my privilege to go to the Northern Territory only last week and talk again to the Executive of the Northern Territory and give it the commitment of this Government to the handing over of a great heap of functional responsibilities. That is something that we will be progressing towards. The Government is committed to giving increasing autonomy to the Northern Territory and taking it forward to statehood. 
I thank the honourable member for the Northern Territory for his remarks on the pastoral industry. The pastoral industry in the Northern Territory has the problems of the pastoral industry in other parts of Australia but probably to a greater measure. There are specific problems in the pastoral industry in the Northern Territory. We, as a Government, have been able to give it freight rebates and compensation for tuberculosis and brucellosis reactors. We have been able to provide carry-on finance. We are looking at a number of other measures to assist the pastoral industry in the Northern Territory. In closing these remarks, I am pleased to join with the honourable member for the Northern Territory in wishing the Legislative Assembly of the 
Northern Territory well. It has shown great responsibility. It is ready to take unto itself these powers and autonomy. 
That is why it is of such calibre. That is why it is of such strength and depth. It shows the very good judgment of the electors of the Northern Territory that they so chose. I join the honourable member for the Northern Territory in saying that the Assembly is ready to assume these responsibilities and will acquit itself well. I thank the honourable member for the Northern Territory for his contribution to the debate. I also thank the honourable member for Wills for noting the Territory in his remarks. I promise him that when we discuss these estimates again next year he will see that some remarkable advances and changes have taken place and they will be the result of cooperation between this Government and the elected government of the Northern Territory. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of National Resources 
Proposed expenditure, $47,647,000. 
Department of Overseas Trade 
Proposed expenditure, $63,299,000. 
In the absence of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  I thank honourable members for their contributions to the debate. My Whip has asked me to be brief, but I wish to make a couple of points in reply to some of the comments that were made. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  always makes a thoughtful contribution. I think that if his colleagues had taken more notice of his counsel when they were in government they would have fared much better than they did. He referred to the problems concerning the export of meat, and he identified those problems. The Government is making strenuous efforts to develop and diversify the markets for our meat. The major barriers to our exports of meat were faced in 1975 in our major markets of the United States, Canada, Japan and the European Economic Community, but the situation has improved in recent times. This was facilitated, for example, by the visit of the  Deputy  Prime Minister to Japan earlier this year. In addition to developing traditional markets, efforts are being made to develop small new markets with potential in areas such as Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  showed a knowledge and expertise of the various industries. I think that he made a very good contribution to this debate, as he makes a very good contribution to the planning and policy initiatives of the Government. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  gave us his usual performance. He said little or nothing. He did a little bit of private enterprise bashing. He talked about television commercials. He quoted a few figures but he got them wrong. I think that a little nonsense now and then is relished by the wisest men. The honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson)  raised the matter of the small exporter. Honourable members will know that the Industries Assistance Commission considered the re-introduction of shareholder deductions. The majority view of the Commission was that these deductions should not be reintroduced. The minority view was that they should be reintroduced. The Government gave very careful consideration to both points of view. Unfortunately, in the context in which the Budget was framed, it was not able at that time to do more than it did. I feel that the Government went as far as it possibly could. It did show a complete change of direction in dealing with the mining industry. 
I was interested in the contribution of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  He espoused uranium mining, enrichment and export. That was refreshing. He said that uranium is too important for its development to be neglected. The Government will not take any decisions regarding the development of Australian uranium until it has received and considered the report of the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  has not really changed. He was the architect of the coal export levy. Let me make quite clear the Government's position with regard to the coal export levy. It has consistently stated that it considers the coal export duty to be a discriminatory and inequitable tax which should be removed as soon as the economic circumstances permit. The recent Budget takes the first step in this process. It can be regretted only that the economic circumstances did not allow a larger step to be taken. Nevertheless, the immediate step which has been taken will reduce hardship in some areas, and the firm commitment to phase out the duty will enable planning of new coal projects to proceed with a major uncertainty removed. 
The honourable member also said something to the effect that in return for the Commonwealth obtaining 55 per cent Austraiian equity in Norwich Park larger areas were made available to the Utah organisation. Of course, the allocation of mining rights is made by the State, as he knows, and not by the Commonwealth Government. The honourable member also spoke of a sellout of the Australian resources that were mentioned in the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on petroleum prices. I think that report was tabled in this chamber today. The Government has not had time to consider it. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O 'Keefe)  raised a number of matters concerning uranium. I have already explained to the Committee the Government's position in regard to uranium development. It is awaiting receipt of the report of the Fox inquiry. I will pass on the comments of honourable members to the Minister for National Resources. I thank them again for the part they have played in this debate. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Industry and Commerce 
Proposed expenditure,$164,833,000. 
Department of Business and Consumer Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $94,5 1 9,000. 
Pursuant to section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953, I present the annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Science and Industry Research Act 1949 I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
I thank very much all honourable members who have in the main constructively debated the estimates for the Department of Science and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. As honourable members on both sides of the House have said these are 2 very big and important fields that will increase in importance in future. I thank the officers of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  who have been in the advisers gallery. We have taken note of those things that have been said and of those suggestions that honourable members have amalgamated postal workers union, be brought to the attention of the Minister in another place. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of 2 statements made recently by the Minister for Science relating to the Bureau of Meteorology flood warnings and the forthcoming solar eclipse. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Research Grants Committee for the triennium 1973-75. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Asian Development Bank (Special Funds Contributions) Amendment Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is with some satisfaction that I present this measure to the Parliament. The purpose of the Bill is to facilitate the transfer of Australian Public Service staff to the Northern Territory Public Service as a further step in the constitutional development of the Northern Territory. 
I have no doubt that there is general agreement among all members of this House that the people of the Northern Territory should be given greater control over their own affairs. It is the policy of the Government to progressively act to confer executive responsibility on the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory with the objective of advancing the Territory to Statehood. As I will indicate later, this policy commitment is significantly under way. It is clearly the consensus of this Parliament that the arrangements for the governance of the Northern Territory should more adequately reflect the views and aspirations of the local community. This sentiment is supported in the policy statements of all political parties represented in the Parliament. It was confirmed by the report of the joint parliamentary committee appointed to inquire into the constitutional development of the Northern Territory. 
More recently, the Parliament approved during its last sittings, and without dissent, amendments to the Northern Territory (Administration) Act to facilitate the conferral of executive responsibility on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. At that time I expressed satisfaction at the non-partisan approach which was adopted to that measure. Following the enactment of the amendments to the Northern Territory (Administration) Act, the Government announced its approval for the transfer to the control of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly of a wide range of functions of a local character. Our target date for the implementation of that transfer is 3 1 December 1976.I seek leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a list of the functions which will be included in the initial transfer. 
I thank the House. This Bill is an essential component of the new and expanded constitutional status that we are seeking to confer on the Northern Territory. It is, I suggest, a critical element in the compact between the Federal Government, the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory and the officers of the Public Service who will devote their career to the advancement and well being of the Territory. 
As I stated earlier, the purpose of the Bill is to facilitate the transfer of staff from the Australian Public Service to the Northern Territory Public Service. It will be complemented by an appropriate Northern Territory Public Service Ordinance which is being prepared at present in consultation with the Public Service Board and the relevant staff associations. The transfers will be made by the Minister for the time being administering the Northern Territory (Administration) Act, acting on the advice of both the Public Service Board and the Northern Territory Public Service Commissioner. The Bill will safeguard the rights of existing officers and employees who are transferred. Before any transfer can take place the Minister must be satisfied that the Northern Territory Public Service will meet certain minimum standards such as automatic appointment of transferred officers, preservation of furlough, and other leave accruals which exist at the date of transfer, and retention of existing salary. These provisions are designed to protect the rights without inhibiting by legislation the ability of the Northern Territory Public Service Commissioner in his actions in relation to the newly formed Service. 
It is proposed that promotion and appeal rights of existing officers will be continued in substantively the same manner as was provided for staff transferred to the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions and a regulation making power for this purpose is included in the Bill. Transitional provisions are included to cover promotion action which is in train at the time of any transfer. I would emphasise that it is the Government's intention to ensure that the Northern Territory is provided with a viable and efficient career Public Service. We will ensure, through legislation such as this Bill and the new Northern Territory Public Service Ordinance, that the rights of officers who enter that Service are fully protected. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No action has yet been taken on the matters referred to by the honourable member. Contrary to the statement contained in the Standing Committee's Report that children under the age of eight years are exempted from wearing seat belts, the Northern Territory requires all passengers in a motor vehicle to wear seat belts where fitted. These seat belts must be of an approved standard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All motor vehicles in the Northern Territory are already subjected to an annual mechanical check for roadworthiness. Public motor vehicles such as taxis and buses undergo this check every six months. This has been the practice for over twenty years. 
I have seen some of the media reports of statements attributed to General Stretton. Of course we all pay tribute to the magnificent role performed by him in the aftermath of cyclone Tracy. After cyclone Tracy many donations were made to provide relief for the stricken people of Darwin. Of the funds provided, more than $8m was received by the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust and disbursed by it. The trust fund was established in early 1975 before we were the Government. In accordance with the trust deed, since that date regular monthly reports and financial statements have been tabled in the Parliament. I recently tabled reports for the months of February to June 1 976. That trust account is now being wound up. It will be subject to audit and the final report will be tabled in this Parliament. 
Other amounts paid by groups to other groups in Darwin may total $7m, or whatever figure it was that General Stretton claimed. These amounts did not go through the Trust. Accountability for them lies outside the Trust and the Government and with those parties which handed the money over to local groups. It is known, for example, that Herald and Weekly Times Ltd gave about $lm to the Salvation Army, Red Cross received a large amount, and other organisations such as Rotary, Lions, and the Returned Services League dealt through their own organisations. I believe that that is the answer to General Stretton 's query. We do not look for mistakes or try to pinpoint mistakes that were made at the time of cyclone Tracy. The people of Darwin and the people of the rest of Australia rallied magnificently in an emergency. The thing we must do is learn from those mistakes. That was the first time Australia was confronted with a disaster of this size. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question from the honourable member is taken to refer only to the action that has been taken in the Northern Territory on these matters. The simple answer to that question is that these matters are all under active consideration. I will however add further comment on each of the points raised. 
) Paragraphs 439 to 444 of the Report from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety indicates that only the states of Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia have enacted legisation relating to the retrofitting of seat belts. In fact the Report states that 'no State has adopted the ' code in its recommended form'- the 'code' being the draft code of practice prepared by the ACVP and referred to by the honourable member. 
Although no action has been taken to amend Territory legislation along these lines, my Department in Darwin is currently investigating the magnitude of the task and the likely cost to the community. 
The Report recommends that the Federal Department of Transport, in conjunction with the State and Territory registration authorities initiate such a program of advice to Vehicle Owners. I expect that my colleague the Minister for Transport, will be contacting me in this regard at some time. 
I would expect that the recommendation for the installation of such a device would be referred to the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance in the first instance before any State or Territory considers its adoption. 
The Standing Committee in fact recommended that an Australian Design Rule be developed to ensure that vehicles are fitted with the seat belts warning light. This being the case my Department will not take any action along these lines until such a Design Rule is introduced. It would neither be prudent nor advisable for the Northern Territory to act unilaterally in this matter. 
Northern Territory legisation makes provision for exemptions from the wearing of seat belts in certain circumstances. Administrative practice requires a person seeking exemption to produce medical evidence (a doctor's certificate) to substantiate a claim for exemption on medical or physical grounds. Exemption may also be granted to drivers of delivery vehicles under strict conditions. I understand that these exemptions are not inconsistent with similar legislation elsewhere in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An average of 180 homes per month (not 300) are being completed by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission at present. The majority of them are new with the balance being rebuilds on existing floors and major repairs. 
) Yes. All cement used in Darwin is imported from overseasfrom such places as Korea and Taiwan, and approximately 90 per cent of timber is imported from Malaysia and/or Papua New Guinea with the balance mainly from Western Australia and minor quantities from Queensland. There are also ceiling fans, the bulk of which, although purchased from southern firms, originate from Hong Kong. 
and (4) The Darwin Reconstruction Commission has not purchased building materials direct during 1976. It should be noted, however, that building contractors to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and the private sector are themselves responsible for the provision and selection of materials, subject only to compliance with performance specification, and other than cement, timber and ceiling fans as described above, materials are generally of Australian manufacture. 
Most of the materials from Western Australia are transported by ship, but there have been exceptions where materials have proceeded by road/rail via South Australia. Materials from South Australia invariably are transported to Darwin by road/rail. Materials from the eastern states are transported both by ship (usually the 'Darwin Trader') and by road. 
I am advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is: 
I can assure you that this Government remains convinced of the need for the laboratory, but in light of the present constraints on Government expenditure, it was not possible to provide funds for commencement of the works in the current year. However, it is hoped that the special team established to undertake design work for ANAHL will be able to continue with their work until the design and tender documents are complete. The position will be reviewed again during this year. 
( Fisher-Minister for the Northern Territory)- I seek your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  to make a correction to an answer that I gave in reply to a question asked by the honourable member for the Northern Territory on 10 November. Acting on advice which was given to me at that time I said, among other things in that answer, that the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd gave about $lm to the Salvation Army. Subsequent information available to me indicates that this is not absolutely correct. I am now advised that about $ lm was given by the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd to the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund and that the  Sydney Morning Herald gave  about Sim to the Salvation Army in Sydney. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On 26 October 1976 the Minister for Science announced research grants for 1977 to be awarded through the Australian Research Grants Scheme. The Australian Research Grants Committee recommends grants for projects within the physical, biological, applied and social sciences and in the humanities. It includes biological and veterinary research, but it does not include medical or dental research. These are the responsibility of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
On 31 August 1976 the Minister for Science released a Budget Background statement announcing the allocation of $1.4m to the CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition. These funds were made available to CSIRO through appropriation from Consolidated Revenue. They are not grants in terms of the granting activities of the Australian Research Grants Committee or the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The statement made reference to three particular research programmes in the Division of human diet and dietaryrelated disorders. These involve: 
Investigation of specific life-style groups with a view to determining nutrition patterns. 
Study of the effects of alcohol and other dietary intakes on the development of the brain in unborn children. 
Research into digestion and its relationship with such complaints as heart disease and possibly cancer. 
These are components of the Division's principal research programmes that cover the fields of inorganic nutrition, human metabolism and digestion, and nutrition and human ecology. 
Duplication between the National Health and Medical Research Council and the Australian Research Grants Committee research projects is avoided by an annual coordination meeting between representatives of both bodies which allocates borderline projects to one or the other body. With respect to the CSIRO, liaison between CSIRO and the National Health and Medical Research Council is facilitated by a Medical Research Liaison Committee convened by CSIRO and reporting to the CSIRO Executive. The Committee comprises CSIRO scientists, including the Chief of the Division of Human Nutrition, representatives of the Department of Health and the National Health and Medical Research Council, and medical research scientists. 
-What I want to say relates not only to this amendment but also to subsequent amendments. The Opposition has been saying quite a lot by way of denigration of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I think the words that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  used should be rebuted. He talked about the unenviable record of the legislature of the Northern Territory. Already my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has sought to put the record straight. It is in this context, and in the context of those words, that I pay tribute to the pioneering work on the subject of Aboriginal land rights which has been undertaken over the years by the Northern Territory legislature. Apparently members opposite do not know that many of the principles governing land rights were considered initially in the Northern Territory Legislative Council in the 1960s by people familiar with the needs and traditions of the Aboriginals, developed over many years of direct association with those people. I believe that it was from those debates that the first recognition of land rights for the Aboriginal people emerged. 
In 1964 the Northern Territory Legislative Council appointed a committee on Aboriginal integration. In May 1965 the committee, in tabling one of its reports, proposed the first steps to give effect to land tenure for Aboriginals on reserves. In August 1966 a Bill dealing with land titles for Aboriginals was introduced by a private member of that Council, but this initiative was overtaken by a further Bill sponsored by the Federal Government. This latter legislation came into effect in 1970. My colleague  Mr Ralph  Hunt, the then Minister for the Interior, was able to approve a grant of over 70 leases to Aboriginals before the change of government in 1972. 
I thank sincerely the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  for his consultation with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, his time and the co-operative discussion on a large number of occasions with the Assembly. The Assembly is most anxious to give full cooperation to the Government. Indeed, it may well indicate the path for co-operation in legislation which eventually will reach far beyond the Northern Territory. I do not believe that sufficient recognition has been given by the Opposition and critics of the responsible approach adopted by the Northern Territory legislature to the question of land rights, especially in earlier years when the subject was less fashionable than it is now. 
I remind the Parliament that the large schedule of land to be declared Aboriginal land under this Bill was set aside and protected over the years for the benefit of Aboriginals under the authority of the Northern Territory ordinances, not by legislation passed by this Parliament. The responsible approach adopted by the Northern Territory legislature in the past gives every reason for confidence that the complementary legislation entrusted to the Legislative Assembly by this Bill will be wholly in harmony with the objectives of the Government and will fully protect the interests of the Aboriginal people of the Territory. That is the sort of undertaking which I and the Assembly have given to the Minister. I do not take very kindly to the remarks of members of the Opposition about the attitude of the Assembly. I do not think it is worthy of them. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the Metric Conversion Act 1970 I present the annual report of the Metric Conversion Board for the year ended 30 June 1976, together with a statement by the Minister for Science relating to that report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Science for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
) The situation is that although the Government is convinced of the need for this laboratory it is not possible, in the light of the present constraints on expenditure, to provide funds for the commencement of works in the current financial year. 
However, it is hoped that the special team established to undertake design work for the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory will be able to continue with this work until the design and tender documents are complete. The position will be reviewed again during this year. 
Launching of Australian Ships in Sweden  (Question No. 1481) 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) Nil. 
and(3)See(1)above. 
Visits by Foreign Nationals to Australia (Question No. 1793) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Section 1 46 of the Licensing Ordinance states: 
A person on licensed premises who sells or supplies any liquor to or for consumption by any person in a state of intoxication shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty for a first offence $10.00 and for any subsequent offence not less than $20.00 no more than $80.00. ' 
No licensees have been prosecuted in the Northern Territory for this offence in any of the last five years. 
Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Previous Ministers of both departments exchanged views on a separate authority late in 1974 but the matter lapsed following the cyclone in December that year. 
It is proposed that the Public Utilities Branch of the Department of the Northern Territory will be transferred to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly with effect from 1 January 1977. It would be appropriate for the possibility of a separate Northern Territory Electricity Supply Authority to be discussed in the Commonwealth/Northern Territory Consultative Committee. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My reply to question No. 1239 made no mention of such restrictions being considered at present although my colleague, the Minister for the Capital Territory, did state this in answer to a similar question relating to the Australian Capital Territory. (Question No. 1241,  Hansard,  page 2426 dated 4 November 1976). 
My Department in Darwin will be giving early consideration to restrictive legislation alone the lines recommended in the Standing Committee's Report. If it is decided to differentiate between child restraints and seat belts by legislation, ample publicity will be given through the media. 
As far as fitment of child restraints to motor vehicles is concerned I would reiterate what I said in my reply to question No. 1239 that all passengers, including children, riding in a motor vehicle must wear seat belts when provided. These belts are to be of prescribed standard. The standard that has been prescribed is ASA E35. Any restraint which does not comply with this standard is unacceptable. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the monthly reports of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for July, August and September 1976. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of these papers have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. I ask for leave of the House to make a very short statement in relation to these matters. 
In view of my colleague's concern about eucalyptus dieback it is quite fortuitous that I discussed this matter with my colleague the Minister for Science. He informs me that eucalyptus dieback involves the death of the crown and probably the whole tree. It occurs sporadically in most forests but in recent years the extent and frequency of death have reached very high levels. That is consistent with what the honourable member has said. I have a detailed paper on the incidence of eucalyptus dieback and the measures that have been taken in the various States. These details I think are too long and involved to be given at question time. I will be happy to pass them on to my colleague. I understand that no practical control measures have yet been demonstrated, but the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is very active in this field. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for National Resources, to whom the relevant part of the question should be directed. 
One of the recommendations of the Fox Report was that there should be ample time for public consideration of this Report, and for debate upon it. To this end it recommended that no decision be taken in relation to its other recommendations until a reasonable time has elapsed and there has been an opportunity for the usual democratic processes to function, including, in this respect, parliamentary debate. 
The emphasis in this recommendation is on the provision of reasonable time to allow public debate to take place; not that a public debate should be arranged. CSIRO is always available to comment on matters in which it has particular expertise and there are no restrictions on its officers participating in public debate as private citizens. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
CSIRO scientists from the Division of Food Research, Meat Research Laboratory, have been testing methods which use electrical stimulation to improve the tenderness of carcasses. 
They have shown that the use of low voltage stimulation of beef carcasses prevents muscle shortening, the major cause of toughness in meat. The shock is directed into the carcass through electrodes a few minutes after slaughter. The voltage used in CSIRO experiments is within the safety limit specified by the State Electricity Authorities. The electrical stimulation speeds up  rigor mortis  whilst the carcass is still warm so that the 'softness' of the natural muscle is largely preserved. 
Without an accelerated process of  rigor mortis  which normally takes 24 hours, the muscles can shorten and become set' as tougher meat. Muscle shortening may be reduced by slow cooling of the carcass before  rigor mortis  but danger of spoilage would increase. The accelerated  rigor mortis  overcomes the present conflict between fast chilling to avoid spoiling and slow chilling to avoid toughness. CSIRO compared the toughness of meat from carcasses both with and without electrical stimulation and found that the stimulation treatment caused a marked increase in tenderness. 
The method is likely to be attractive to industry because it is effective, simple and safe, and CSIRO is currently carrying out an investigation at meat works level with a view to recommending the most practical procedures. 
CSIRO scientists are also studying methods of reforming chopped up tough cuts of meat into steaks with the tenderness characteristics of good quality more expensive cuts such as rump steak. 
There are also other currently available procedures to tenderise meat such as the use of enzymes, ageing and tenderstretching, all of which are in use commercially to some small extent. 
Sale of Liquor in Northern Territory (Question No.  1615) 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As set out in Remuneration Tribunal Determination Number 1976/7 the current annual salaries and allowances paid to members of the Metric Conversion Board are: 
-The Minister representing the Minister for Science has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions. 
By way of introduction, it may be useful to state that the expression 'genetic engineering' is used here to refer to research with artificially-recombined molecules of DNA, the molecules carrying the hereditary message. The answers to the specific questions are as follows: 
1 ) One senior scientist of the Division of Plant Industry is engaged full time in this area of research, while four others spend about 5 per cent of their time on it. 
the total expenditure by CSIRO on this work in 1 976-77 will be about $50,000. 
3 ) Expenditure in 1 977-78 is expected to be of the same order. 
At this stage, there is little likelihood of rapid application of research on recombinant DNA in plant breeding, but it is likely that the techniques and materials derived from it will greatly assist the development of improved crop varieties within about ten years. 
The major benefit to primary production in Australia is expected to come from the ultimate release of improved crop and pasture varieties. The particular advantage of the technique is its ability to introduce valuable new characteristics beyond the range of those amenable to conventional plant breeding techniques. 
Compared with other countries, particularly the U.S.A. and in Europe, CSIRO's involvement in research on genetic engineering techniques for plant breeding is very small, but it is of high calibre. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions. 
By way of introduction, it may be useful to state that the expression 'genetic engineering' is used here to refer to research with artificially-recombined molecules of DNA, the molecules carrying the hereditary message. The answers to the specific questions are as follows: 
Before 1976 there was essentially no research with recombinant DNA molecules in any Australian research institution. However, there was close knowledge of the new techniques for the work which had been developed overseas. 
By the end of 1975, following parallel moves overseas, the Australian Academy of Science established a Standing Committee to review and make recommendations on proposals for research with recombinant DNA on the basis of guidelines reflecting potential hazards associated with the experimentation. The CSIRO, Universities and other research institutions, as well as the major research funding bodies in Australia, including the Australian Research Grants Council, agreed to refer research proposals to the Standing Committee. 
During calendar year 1976 the Standing Committee gave approval to ten proposals for recombinant DNA research. These originated from the CSIRO, Australian National University, University of Adelaide, University of Melbourne and the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research. A further three proposals have been approved so far in 1977. Only proposals falling within categories of low and minimal risk experimentation have been approved by the Academy Committee. It is understood that in some cases the work has not yet proceeded beyond the stage of establishing the equipment and facilities for the research. 
The CSIRO has indicated that its total expenditure on recombinant DNA research in financial year 1976-77, will be about $50,000. The Australian Research Grants Committee provided funding for four proposals to a total of $58,000 in calendar year 1 976. 
It is understood that the remainder of the approved research projects are covered by internal university or institutional funding, and so constitute an indirect cost to the Commonwealth- as, for example, through the Australian Universities Commission. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following activities took place under Agreements for scientific and technical co-operation during 1976: 

 U.S.IAustralia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation (signed 16 October 1968; renewed 30 July 1973) 
Fifteen individual scientists from the U.S. visited scientists in Australia, and four from Australia visited scientists in the U.S. for the purpose of engaging in research work. 

 The details are: 

Professor B. C. Burchfiel of Rice University, Houston, visited Professor D. A. Brown of the Australian National University to work on Comparative Study of the Tasman Orogenic Belt and the Cordilleran Orogenic Belt of the Western United States' from 26 November 1975 to August 1976. 
Professor W. R. Webber of the University of New Hampshire visited  Dr K.  Fenton of the University of Tasmania to work on 'Cosmic Ray Physics and X-Ray Astronomy' from 7 January 1976 to 7 September 1976. 
Professor D. Stouffer of the University of Cincinnati visited  Dr J.  F. Williams of the University of Melbourne to work on Biomechanics and Continuum Plasticity' from 19 January 1976 to 3 1 December 1976. 
Professor C. T. Prewitt of the State University of New York, Stony Brook, visited Professor B. Hobbs of Monash University to work on 'Domain Structures in Minerals' from 28 January 1976 to 28 September 1976. 

 Dr P. A. Ianna of the University of Virginia visited Professor O. J. Eggen of the Australian National University to work on 'Astrometric Studies of Nearby Stars from the Southern Hemisphere' from January to December 1976. 
Professor P. Gerhardt of Michigan State University visited  Dr W.  G. Murrell of the CSIRO Division of Food Research to work on Basic Resistance Mechanisms of Bacterial Spores' from 8 February to 26 April 1976. 

 Dr E. P. Ting and  Mr Hanscomb  of the University of California, Riverside, visited  Dr C.  B. Osmond of the Australian National University to work on 'Environmental Control of Photosynthesis and Growths of Cacti (Opuntia)' from 30 March to 12 April 1976. 
Drs P. E. Nelson and T. A. Toussoun of Pennsylvania State University visited  Dr L.  W. Burgess of the University of Sydney to work on 'The Biology of Fusarium Roseum ' from 1 April to 30 June 1976. 

 Dr F. L. Crane of Purdue University visited Professor F. Gibson of the Australian National University to work on 'Electron Transport and Energy Coupling Systems in E. Coli' from 20 September to 20 October 1 976. 

 Dr R. G. Roper of the School of Aerospace Engineering, Atlanta, visited  Dr W.  G. Elford of the University of Adelaide to work on 'Joint Radio Meteor Wind Studies of the Upper Atmosphere' from 9 to 30 October 1976. 
Professor T. Kailath of Stanford University visited Professor Anderson of the University of Newcastle to work on 'Multivariable Control Systems' from 9 November to 4 December 1976. 
Professors Professor P. R. Ehrlich and J. D. Roughgarden of Stanford University visited Professor F. H. Talbot of Macquarie University to work on 'Research Aspects of Coral Reef Fish Communities of the Great Barrier Reef in December 1976 for 3 weeks. 
Professor A. E. Ringwood of the Australian National University, Professor J. F. Lovering of the University of Melbourne and  Dr S.  R. Taylor of the Australian National University visited NASA facilities in Houston, United States of America to participate in the Lunar Science Conference for a week in March 1976. 
Professor R. W. Robinson of Monash University visited Professor F. Harary of the University of Michigan (U.S.A.) to work on Graphical Enumeration Problems in Physical Sciences' from 6 December 1976 to 15 January 1977. 
Four seminars were held under the Agreement as follows: on 'Fruit Flies' in Honolulu from 28 November to 2 December 1976; on 'Plant Response to Salinity ' at Riverside, California, from 26 to 28 April 1 976; on 'Determination of Momentum Wave Function in Atomic Molecular and Nuclear Systems' at Bloomington, Indiana, from 31 May to 4 June 1976; on 'Electric Arc Interruption and Power Testing' held in Sydney from 17 to 21 May 1976. 
Ongoing activities were as follows: the Lunar Laser Ranging Program involving the National Mapping Division, Department of National Resources and the National Aeronautical and Space Administration (NASA). a High Energy Physics Program involving the Department of Physics of the University of Melbourne and the Department of Physics of Indiana University. five projects using the LANDSAT-2 facility, titled: 'Mapping Islands, Reefs and Shoals in the Oceans surrounding Australia'; 'Survey of Capeweed Distribution in Australia in Relation to Climate, Landforms, Soil Types and Management Practices'; Water UtilisationEvapotranspiration and Soil Moisture Monitoring in the South East Region of South Australia'; 'New England, Australia, Structures in Granitic Bathyliths and Associated Foldbelts in Relation to Mineral Resources': and 'Daly Basin- Development Monitoring'. 
) An administrative visit was made to Australia by the United States Manager of the Program in April and May 1976. 
India/Australia Science and Technology Agreement (signed 26 February 1975) 
Two Indian scientists visited Australia: 
Professor M. V. Krishna Murthy and  Dr S.  Srinivasa Murthy, from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, visited Australia in September 1976 to attend a conference on refrigeration and to visit institutions in Sydney and Melbourne involved in solar energy research. 
An administrative visit was made to India by a science delegation led by the Secretary, Department of Science. 
FRG/Australia Science and Technological Agreement (signed 24 August 1 976 ) 
Two visits were made: 
An industrial delegation from the FRG visited Australia in June and July 1976 to discuss the possibility of a joint Australia-FRG study of the economic feasibility of establishing a large-scale coal liquefaction plant in Australia. 
The Secretary, Department of Science, and an officer of the Department visited the FRG on 1 4 and 15 October 1976 for discussions with FRG officials. 
Australia/U.S.S.R. Scientific and Technical Cooperation Agreement (signed 15 January 1975) 
Ten Russian scientists visited Australia and seven Australian scientists visited the U.S.S.R. for the purpose of engaging in research. Details are as follows: 

 Dr I. W. McLaren of the Victorian Department of Agriculture visited U.S.S.R. from 4 July to 1 1 September, and  Mr M.  Grimm of the Western Australian Department of Agriculture visited U.S.S.R. from 18 July to 1 1 September 1976, for a specific entomological study on biological control. 

 Dr D. L. Jauncey of the CSIRO Division of Radio Physics visited U.S.S.R. from 7 to 20 
July for discussion of the results of the Australia/U.S.S.R./U.S.A. Very-Long-Baseline Interferometry experiment conducted in April and May 1976. 

 Dr B. R. Champ of the CSIRO Division of Entomology and  Mr M.  Connell of the Australian Wheat Board visited U.S.S.R. from 18 July to 12 August and 30 August to 9 October 1976 to study improved methods of preventing damage by insect pests to stored grain products. 

 Dr R. J. Lawn of the CSIRO Division of Tropical Crops and Pastures and  Dr R.  N. Oram of the CSIRO Division of Plant Industry visited U.S.S.R. from 3 to 24 August 1976 to study breeding of oilseed crops and lupins. 

 Dr V. I. Kostenko of the Institute of Space Research visited Australia from 22 April to 9 May 1976 in connection with the Australia/U.S.S.R./U.S.A. Very-Long-Baseline Interferometry experiment. 

 Dr I. D. Ryabchikov of the Institute of Geology of Ore Deposits, Petrography, Mineralogy and Geochemistry of the Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R. visited Australia from 1 1 September to 7 December 1976 to work at the Australian National University on the solubility of carbon dioxide in magmas at high pressures and how this affects crystallisation of various minerals from the magmas. 

 Dr I. P. Proskura of the Ukrainian Scientific Research Institute of Fodder and  Ms T.  G. Novikova of the All-Union Scientific Research Institute of Sheep and Goat Breeding visited Australia from 23 September to 10 October 1976 to study methods of increasing pasture productivity. 

 Dr L. A. Trisvyatsky of the All.Union Scientific Research Institute of Grain and Grain Products visited Australia from 16 to 31 October 1976 and Drs G. A. Zakladnoy and S. A. Sheltova of the same Institute from 16 October to 12 December 1976 to study prevention of damage by insect pests to stored grain products. 

 Dr A. M. Chernozubov of the All.Union Institute of Selective Genetics visited Australia from 4 to 18 November 1976 to work at the CRISO Division of Plant Industry on application of the phytotron. 

 Dr Y. P. Uyasov and  Dr V.  M. Malofeev of the Lebedev Institute of Physics of the Academy of Sciences of U.S.S.R. visited Australia from 18 November to 12 December 1976 to conduct pulsar observations using the radiotelescope of the University of Tasmania. 
One seminar was held: on Solar Radio Emission, at Leningrad, from 4 to 19 September 1976. It was attended by eight Australian scientists. 
Two visits were made by delegations: 
A delegation of five Russian scientists visited Australia in January and February 1976 to study the possibilities of co-operation in the field of entomology. 
A delegation consisting of the Senior Adviser on Science of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Chief of the Division of Entomology, CSIRO, attended a meeting of the Review Commission in Moscow from 22 to 27 May 1976 to discuss matters relating to implementation of the Agreement. 
Academician A. V. Sidorenko, a Vice-President of the Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R., and  Dr Kartashov,  were members of the Soviet delegation to the XXV session of the International Geological Congress in Sydney from 16 to 25 August 1976. After the Congress Academician and  Mrs Sidorenko  and  Dr Kartashov  toured geological sites and academic institutions in Australia until 6 September 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The statements by  Mr Tuxworth  in October and December 1976 on the alleged tactics of Taiwanese fishermen have been brought to my attention. The matter was discussed at the meeting of the Australian Fisheries Council in October 1976. 
Whilst there may be some factual basis for the comments of  Mr Tuxworth  this type of information is not normally available to officers of my department, who are not involved in patrol duties in the declared fishing zone. The Department of Primary Industry has the major responsibility within this zone. It is assisted in fisheries surveillance by patrolling units of the Navy and Air Force. 
I am aware that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly debated the matter of Taiwanese fishing operations in Northern Australia expressing concern at the repeated infringements in Australian waters. 
Australian Embassy in Beirut  (Question No. 557) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Salary and operating funds: 1975-76-5504,000; 1976-77-$ 1,054,000. 
Note: In July and August 1976, when the new Cleveland laboratory was first occupied, it was necessary to purchase additional equipment. From that time, normal overhead expenses for the laboratory were incurred and vessel charter and salary expenses increased considerably. 
The CSIRO laboratory at Cleveland is called the North-eastern Regional Laboratory of the Division of Fisheries and Oceanography. The Laboratory is intended to provide facilities for scientists from different disciplines to work on marine fisheries and oceanographical projects relevant to the north-eastern area of Australia. 
At present, it provides facilities for scientists involved in prawn research, especially as part of the Tropical Prawn Research Project. The biology of prawns-mainly banana and tiger prawns- is being studied in relation to the prawn fishery in the Gulf of Carpentaria. As pan of the project, j uuvenile prawns are being studied in the rivers near Karumba and Weipa in Queensland, using a field station at Karumba. 
Larval and adult prawns and environmental factors are being studied from vessels at sea in the Gulf. In the laboratory at Cleveland, studies of the organisms eaten by prawns, juvenile prawn behaviour and prawn response to salinity changes during floods are being undertaken. 
Quarantine: Chemical Residues in Meat  (Question No.  604) 
For the information of honourable members I present the monthly reports of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for October, November and December 1976 and January, February, March and April of 1977. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of these papers have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Macquarie Island 50 30' South 158 58' East. Distance from Melbourne- 2 1 34 kilometres. 
Casey 60 17' South 110 33' East. Distance from Melbourne 3842 kilometres. 
Davis 68 35' South 77 58' East. Distance from Melbourne 52 12 kilometres. 
Mawson 67 36' South 62" 53' East. Distance from Melbourne 5840 kilometres. 
Macquarie Island........ 20 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
Yes. An Interdepartmental Committee is examining the ways and means of providing an improved transport system to the Australian Antarctic stations, including use of aircraft and ships. A report from this Committee is expected shortly. 
Besides the lack of landing strips there are a number of technical difficulties. These include the provision and cost of multi-engined aircraft to be ski-equipped for landing on the snow; fuel and refuelling facilities at the Australian stations; additional accommodation; air navigation aids and additional communications. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question appears to have been prompted by a recent article in the CSIRO Journal  ECOS  No. 1 1 of February 1977, entitled 'Air outback; clean but not virginal' and to subsequent references made to the article in several newspapers. On this occasion the press has misunderstood the implications of the article which described recent progress by the Division of Cloud Physics in its studies of atmospheric panicles. 
An important finding reported in the article was that the total number of panicles emitted from the Mount Isa smelters is comparable with that produced by a capital city. However, it should be appreciated that most of the particles emitted from Mount Isa are extremely small and their total mass amounts to only 20 tonnes daily; similar quantities in both number and mass are thought to be emitted from Whyalla and Port Pirie. Emissions of this order are not significant in comparison with the emission of panicles from Sydney, these, while similar in number to those from Mount Isa, have a total mass of at least 1000 tonnes daily. 
Most of the particles from Mount Isa, Whyalla and Port Pirie are sub-microscopic in size and do not contribute substantially to the haziness of the atmosphere associated with air pollution. Although their total effect upon the atmosphere has yet to be determined, these sub-microscopic particles are known to stay aloft for lengthy periods and to modify the properties of clouds under certain conditions. While some of these effects are predictable, CSIRO is planning further studies involving a comparison of the properties of clouds formed within the particle plume from the Mount Isa smelter and those clouds formed within nearby undisturbed air. Mount Isa emissions are particularly suited for this study because the smelter is situated remote from other industrial centres and its particle plume can be easily identified. 
The findings of this work are expected to lead to a better understanding of the physics of cloud formation but are unlikely to contribute directly to solving problems of air pollution in the metropolitan areas. Although it would be inapropriate to bring this matter formally to the attention of tate Governments, CSIRO will continue to make its results available through the normal channel of publication. 
Economy: Increases in Indicators  (Question No. 664) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No Interdepartmental Committee has been established to advise solely on the long term financial arrangements for the Northern Territory. In the context of the decision by the Government that all State-type functions in the Northern Territory would be transferred to the Legislative Assembly over a 3 to 4 year period and Interdepartmental Committee was established on 21 September 1976 to expose all the issues requiring decision including future financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly (and the future State of the Northern Territory). The membership of that Interdepartmental Committee comprises the Departments of the Northern Territory, Prime Minister and Cabinet, Treasury, and Finance, Attorney-General's Department and the Public Service Board. The Committee is required to submit proposals in the context of the 1977-78 Budget covering future financial relations between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory. 
(3) and (4) See reply to(l). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Robert E. Lee tendered the lowest prices for each of the 17 runs. 
Robert E. Lee only nominated 3 buses with back up buses to be provided by Matilda Tours. He was awarded three runs.  Mrs O'Hara  only nominated 4 of her 9 buses as being of the capacity specified in the tender documents. She received four runs as she was the next lowest tenderer after Robert E. Lee for these runs. Matilda Tours weroutright lowest on three runs and were next lowest tenderer to  Mrs O'Hara  on 5 runs on which  Mrs O'Hara's  tender was not accepted. 

 Mrs O'Hara tendered for 17 runs with only 9 buses. Of the buses nominated in her tenders only 4 buses were stated to be of, or in excess of the stipulated capacity. She secured 4 contracts.  Her  prices for the runs 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 17 were lower than the successful tenderer. She could not have been awarded contracts for all these runs even if her buses had been of the required capacity, as she did not have sufficient vehicles left to service these runs and to provide adequate back-up. 
Robert E. Lee had an arrangement to use or lease 3 buses. He was the lowest tenderer. 
The registered number and licenced capacity for each of the buses described in Annexure 'D' to the Tender Schedule are: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (6) I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Prime Minister in his answer to Question No. 1003, House of Representatives weekly  Hansard  for 2 June 1977. 
Overseas Travel by Public Servants (Question No. 1027) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) ( a ) $ 1 36,700; ( b ) $69,900; (c) $34,700. 
2 ) No other subsidies are in existence. 
$55,200. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (4) See my answer to question on notice No. 808  (Hansard,  2 June 1977, page 2528). 
-The Minister for Science has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Acting Prime Minister's answer to question on notice No. 1003  (Hansard,  2 June 1977, p. 2531). 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Future transport arrangements for Australia 's Antarctic expeditions are being examined by the Transport and Rebuilding Working Group of the Interdepartmental Committee on Antarctica. The Working Group comprises representatives of the following departments: 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  on Australian Landsat Facilities. 
-There has been no diminution of services provided by the Department of the Northern Territory because of staff ceilings imposed by this Government. I can provide detailed figures for the honourable member. The growth of the Northern Territory Public Service is occurring hand in hand with the diminution of the Department of the Northern Territory. Perhaps I could outline the way in which responsibilities associated with self-government are being passed over to the Northern Territory. As a function is passed over to the Northern Territory the section or branch within the Department of the Northern Territory responsible for that function goes over to the Northern Territory Public Service. That is the way in which the Northern Territory Public Service is growing. As it grows, the Department of the Northern Territory diminishes. I will look at the detail in the honourable member's question and give him further information on the staff ceilings and the way they are operating in the Department of the Northern Territory. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the text of a statement by the Minister for Science on increases in Australia 's Antarctic activity. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) It has been stated that Eurpoean carp was introduced to Victoria as a potential sport and food fish as early as 1872, but it is uncertain whether that introduction was successful. There is good evidence that it was successfully introduced to Prospect Reservoir (New South Wales) in 1907-08. However, the widesprean dissemination of carp in southern Australian waters dates from about 1960. At that time a fish farm was established in Gippsland and 1961 it began to sell carp to farmers in the vicinity for stocking dams and rivers. There are some grounds for believing this was a different strain from earlier introductions. Though breeding, rearing and sale of the fish became illegal in Victoria in 1961, the damage had been done and there is evidence of illicit as well as natural spread since that time. 
There have been no legal introductions of European carp in recent decades, nor would legal introduction nave been permitted as the authorities were well aware of the fish's undesirable characteristics. 
Not applicable. 
Carp have now entered much of the Murray-Darling River system and its tributaries. They are also present in the southern-flowing rivers of eastern Victoria and in such isolated streams as the Tambo and Snowy. 
The effects of other fish may generally be expected to be adverse. The Victorian government is undertaking a study aimed at determining the impact of carp on other species of fish and on waterfowl. There are documented cases in some Victorian lakes and rivers where carp have substantially eliminated other fish but there has not been an extensive study of their effect in the Murray River system. 
Carp stir up mud and silt when feeding, which makes the water unattractive to many other species and increases the cost and difficulty of clarifying water for urban use. 
CSIRO concentrates on marine fisheries, as the inland waters are under State jurisdiction, and has not developed expertise in freshwater fisheries. The Organization has not carried out research on carp. However, the Victorian government is investigating two possible methods of control, one involving a genetic approach and the other the use of a viral disease thought to be specific for European carp. Unfortunately, even if successful, neither is likely to offer relief for a number of years. The consensus view of Australian fisheries authorities, as expressed in the Standing Committee of the Australian Fisheries Council, is that control of carp may not be practicable, having in mind that very comprehensive programmes being undertaken with that end in view in various overseas countries appear not to be making much progress. At present there seems to be no choice but to learn to live with carp and to use appropriate measures including commercial fishing as a means of depressing wild populations in waters where they reach a high level, while at the same time continuing to take all practicable and reasonable measures to reduce the rate of spread into presently uninfested waters. 
Commonwealth Funding of Programs in Federal Electorates  (Question No. 1086) 
by leave- In making this statement to the Parliament today I acknowledge with considerable pleasure the presence in the gallery of  Mr Paul  Everingham, the newly appointed Majority Leader and therefore the incoming Chief-Secretary of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, and other Executive members. It is certainly very appropriate that a statement of such great importance for die Northern Territory happily coincides with his presence in the House today. 
In a public statement dated 17 July 1977 I gave a broad outline of the Government's decision to confer responsible self-government on the Northern Territory in the period to 1 July 1979. The decisions taken by the Government resulted from consultations and agreement with Executive members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Following the election for the Legislative Assembly held on 13 August 1977 there were significant changes in the composition of the Executive and I considered it appropriate to obtain a reaction from the new Executive on the proposals. I am now able to confirm that the previously announced program for constitutional reform in the Northern Territory is acceptable to the new Northern Territory Executive and the Government will proceed with the implementation of that program. 
Because of their historical significance and the implications which they will have for the Parliament itself, it is appropriate that a detailed statement of the proposals for the conferral of responsible self-government on the Northern Territory be made in the Parliament. Before coming to office the Government made a policy commitment to devolve executive responsibility on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and to bring the Northern Territory to ultimate Statehood. We have acted quickly to give effect to that undertaking. The Northern Territory (Administration) Act was amended in 1976 to facilitate the transfer of executive responsibility to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly through the appointment of Executive members of that Assembly. The new provisions of the Act were brought into effect from 1 January 1977 and Executive members having administrative responsibility for a range of local functions were appointed from that date. 
Following on from these transitional arrangements it is proposed to create a government of the Northern Territory, with responsible Ministers having control over and responsibility for its own finances as from 1 July 1978. It is our intention that the new government should be given autonomy to conduct its own affairs subject only to the general oversight of the Commonwealth but without direction from it other than in exceptional circumstances. In our approach to this matter we will be guided by the principle that the essence of responsible self-government is that a community should be free to make its own decisions in the full knowledge that it will be required to live with and be responsible for all the consequences of those decisions. We are concerned to ensure that the new political entity which we are proceeding to establish will be truly responsible in all respects. The constitutional structure to be developed for the Northern Territory will be directed towards ensuring to the greatest possible extent that conterminality is achieved between responsibility, authority and accountability within the structure of government in the Northern Territory and as between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory governments. 
Establishment of a Government of the Northern Territory 
It is proposed to introduce legislation during the autumn sittings to formally establish a government of the Northern Territory. Provision will be made for the appointment of Ministers to administer Northern Territory Public Service departments and for the establishment of a separate consolidated revenue fund for the Northern Territory. After self-government the office and title of the Administrator of the Northern Territory will remain. The Administrator will continue to be appointed by the Governor-General and shall hold office at the Governor-General's pleasure. However, in matters pertaining to the appointment or withdrawal of the commission of the Administrator, the Commonwealth will consult with the leader of the Northern Territory government. 
It can be seen from the statement that the transfer covers a wide range of important functions such as primary industry, child, family and community welfare, payroll tax and stamp duties. In addition to the foregoing activities it will now be necessary for a government of the Northern Territory to have its own central control instrumentalities such as a treasury and audit office and public service commission and to make provision for the servicing of its administrative structure. 
In order to avoid unnecessary duplication and to reduce the overall cost of government in the Northern Territory certain administrative service activities- for example, staff, housing, purchasing and transport services- will be undertaken through the use of agency and /or contract arrangements between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory governments. Details of such arrangements, including which government will have primary carriage, will be a matter for resolution between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory executive. However, where the Commonwealth provides a service on behalf of the Northern Territory government it will be the responsibility of that government to determine policy and to commit funds in respect of its use of that service. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) $ 1 6,620.00 per annum, (b) $ 12,000.00 per annum. 
3,120 copies per month. 

For the information of honourable members I present the report of the inquiry into the Bureau of Meteorology together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science relating to this report. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) There would be problems in the early provision in Hobart of certain stores that can only be procured from the mainland. Forward ordering would overcome most difficulties. It is estimated that the extra costs associated with operating the Antarctic Division will be between $250,000 and $370,000 in the first year with substantial reductions in subsequent years. 
A poll of the staff of the Antarctic Division taken in May 1977 showed that about one-third of the staff would move to Hobart, one-third would not move and the remaining third were doubtful or undecided. 
It is expected that the move will make the recruitment of expedition staff more difficult as most applicants will continue to come from the mainland. However, it is anticipated with the Headquarters located in Hobart an increasing proportion will be recruited from Tasmania. 
There appears to be considerable office space available for rental in Melbourne but my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services would be more competent to advise on this aspect. However the accommodation required for the Antarctic Division would involve specialised areas in addition to normal office type accommodation. 
Yes. It is proposed to construct a new complex for the Division in Hobart. This proposal has recently been the subject of a public hearing by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. Evidence given by officers of the Department of Construction indicated that the latest estimated cost of the new complex is $8.03m. 
No expenditure other than design costs will be incurred during 1977-78. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The matter was not referred to the Public Service Board in that the movements were internal matters within the laboratories of the Australian Government Analyst. The request by the Senior Chemist of the Narcotic Drug Analysis Group in Sydney for the transfer of a chemist from the group's Melbourne section to Sydney was investigated by a Senior Inspector, Establishments and Methods, Department of Science, who found that the workload did not justify such a transfer. 
The Drug Analysis Group in Sydney is continuing its work on identifying the constituents of drugs seized under the Customs Act so that the 'intelligence' produced may be given to the Narcotics Bureau to assist in tracing heroin imports. The services of the Drug Research Group in Melbourne are available to assist the Drug Analysis Group in Sydney at any time should they be called upon to do so. The Australian Government Analyst will accord the necessary priority. 
-the Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The positions were created during 1969 and staff were recruited early in 1970. 
Yes. However the contact point for international cooperation in scientific aspects of the control of drugs of abuse is now the Senior Chemist of the Drug Analysis Group in Sydney. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
5 ) It is located in Melbourne. 
It is responsible to the Director of the Victorian Regional Laboratory of the Australian Government Analyst. 
No. In addition to some drug research by  Dr P.  Scheelings the Group provides a mass spectrometry service and investigates complex analytical problems. 

 Mr Barrett undertook a study of the effects of pyrolysis on the constituents of cannabis. 
Yes-1975. 
10)  Mr Barrett  is investigating methods of detection and estimation of malvidindiglucoside in wine. 
Yes. 
12)  Dr Dahl  is working on techniques to identify degradation products of pesticide residues and flame retardants in textiles. 
While some parts of the original program have been completed the Drug Analysis Group in Sydney continues to exchange information under the agreement with the Drug Enforcement Administration of the United States in identification and characterisation of drugs of abuse. 
Yes. 
No. 
Further meetings will be held only if a need arises. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Administrative responsibility for the Northern Territory Port Authority was transferred to an Executive Member of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory on 1 January 1977. 
The report by the Bureau of Transport Economics will need to be considered by the incoming Territory Executive which will be appointed following the recent Legislative Assembly elections. 
I would expect a recommendation from that Executive within two months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(D- 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Examination of the departmental files does not reveal any such instruction but if the honourable member has any evidence to support his claim, I should be pleased to investigate it. 
Following the Government's decision on uranium mining and export the matter of monitoring arrangements in the Alligator Rivers Region will be considered by the Supervising Scientist and the Co-ordinating Committee as part of their responsibilities in the formulation of measures for environmental protection in the Region. The idea of using the Australian Government Analyst as an independent check on the large amount of analysis which will be undertaken in the Northern Territory is a possibility. 
The Australian Government Analytical Laboratories are able to analyse a wide range of substances including wastes from mining operations and are available to undertake such work subject to available resources and other commitments. They are not able to measure radioactivity of wastes, that is a matter for the Australian Radiation Laboratory of the Department of Health and/or the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
For the information of honourable members I present die monthly reports of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for May, June, July and August 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The areas involved are more particularly explained in paragraphs 1 and 4 of Chapter 16 of the Second Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, under the section headed 'Proposed Strategy'. The Government has accepted the recommendation contained in that part of the report. 
(a) The lessees of Pastoral Lease 668, Gimbat, are W. A., G. H. &amp; M. I. Gunn, and C. G. Savill. 
The lessee of Pastoral Lease No. 612, Goodparla, is Goodparla Land and Cattle Co Pty Ltd. 
(a) Pastoral Lease 668, Gimbat, expires in the year 2012 with the lessees being eligible to apply for renewal between the years 198 1 and 2002. 
Pastoral Lease 612, Goodparla, expires in the year 2001 with the lessee being eligible to apply for renewal between the years 1 980 and 200 1 . 
(a) The total land rental on Pastoral Lease 668, Gimbat, is S 1 ,025.60 or $0.80 per square mile. 
The total land rental on Pastoral Lease 612, Goodparla, is $ 1 ,600.48 or $ 1 . 1 2 per square mile. 
Both pastoral leases are lightly developed and in an area which is seriously affected by the recession being experienced by the beef industry. The question of whether the leases have been economic for the lessees is one for individual opinion and judgment that would best be addressed to the lessees. 
-Minister for the Northern Territory and Minister Assisting the Minister for National Resources) (5.57)- It is no wonder, of course, that we got no investment in this country under the term of the Labor Government. I believe we have heard in the last few minutes me way not to get any investment at all in this country. Nothing will cause greater uncertainty to investors, Australian and foreign alike, than that decision that was made by the New South Wales Government. I believe it is not in the national interest. I believe it is absolutely counter to the national interest. It is all very well for the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  to talk the way he did. The inconsistency of the New South Wales Government is pretty well highlighted. Recently, with a great fanfare of trumpets, the Premier of New South Wales announced that a substantial portion- 49 per cent- of a steaming coal deposit had been sold to Japanese interests. It is no wonder that we did not get investment under a Labor government. 
I know that this debate is shortly to conclude. I want to take up one other point. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  referred to prices that had been paid to Utah Development Co. which he alleged were supplied by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. I question that. My understanding is that the Australian Bureau of Statistics does not provide information relating to individual companies. I would like to have taken that matter a little further. I thank members who have taken part in the debate for their contributions. The matters will be referred to the various Ministers who will respond at a suitable time. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
Department of Industry and Commerce 
Proposed expenditure, $23,944,000. 
Department of Business and Consumer Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $9 1 ,747,000. 
Department of Productivity 
Proposed expenditure, $105,278,000. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(2) and (3) I am aware of reports of such investigations. Some work in this field has also been carried out in Australia. For example, the Australian Academy of Science has a committee investigating the use of icebergs as a potential source of fresh water. 
In addition, Australian scientists (including a Government scientist from the Antarctic Division) actively participated in the First International Conference on Iceberg Utilisation, held in the United States from 2 to 6 October 1977. The conference was attended by scientists, engineers, consultants and industry representatives. 
One of the principal reasons for holding the International Conference was to assess all aspects of the state of research and development on the use of icebergs as a source of fresh water. It would seem therefore that the outcome of the conference should be awaited and considered before deciding whether or not further inquiries into the present state of technology for iceberg utilisation should now be pursued. 
I thank the honourable member for the question. We know not only of his forthright advocacy on behalf of the Northern Territory but also of his activity in overcoming the very serious disabilities that befell the people of Darwin after the disastrous Cyclone Tracy. In confirmation of the statement I did make earlier I repeat that the original life of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission was envisaged as being five years. It is good news indeed to know that despite the economic problems we have faced since coming to government we have fully met our commitments and our promises in this regard and that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission will be winding up at the end of this year after a life of three years. 
In answer to the first part of the honourable member's question, the prime task was to build houses and flats. The program to 30 June 1977 was to build 2,900 houses and flats. Almost 2,700 have been completed and the balance will be completed by 31 December this year. The task will be finished. With regard to the second part of the question, no, I do not expect any difficulties during the wind down period to 31 December. Planning for the closure of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission has been going on since February this year. Whilst the Commission has a sizable program this year, I am confident that there will be a very smooth handover of the management of this program to the Department of Construction in early January 1978. 1 should like to say that the placement of staff employed by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission into other Public Service positions has gone very smoothly to date. 
I have spoken quite publicly and have made no politics - 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure through funds appropriated to the Darwin Reconstruction Commission has been- 1975- -76-$111m 1976- 77-$136.5m 1977- 78-$85m (estimated). 
This expenditure includes payments on contracts which existed pre-cyclone, but does not include administration or defence. 
Expenditure on repairs, etc in the immediate post-cyclone situation, which was of the order of $3 5 m, under the control of the Department of Construction is not included in the above figures nor are the funds provided to the Northern Territory Housing Commission and the Northern Territory Home Finance Trustee. 
$1 17,500 for restoration of Brown's Mart Theatre, of which $55,700 was provided through the then Department of Urban and Regional Development. $44,000 on temporary protection of damaged historic buildings, plus $54,000 on the restoration and re-roofing of cell blocks at Fannie Bay Gaol regarded as buildings of historic significance. $20,000 on the provision of a demountable building to house the Darwin Public Library. 
The Government has undertaken to repair all Commonwealth cyclone damaged buildings and has given aid to the private sector by way of concessional loans for home building as well as aid to enable business recovery through the Darwin Business Relief Loan Fund. Compensation was also paid by the Government to persons who suffered property damage during the cyclone in those cases where they were uninsured or under-insured. 
In relation to the specific matters raised- 
a new library at Casuarina is due for completion in late 1979; 
a new art gallery and museum complex is provisionally on Design List 'A' for 1978-79 subject to clarification of the allocation of land. 
Yes, but with its implementation being dependent upon the availability of financial resources. 
A survey of this nature has never been carried out and hence no information is available. 
Yes. A museum and an gallery complex is planned. 
Yes. Assistance for capital projects is currently being provided through the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, which operates a scheme of capital assistance for leisure facilities (CALF Scheme). 
See my statement of 14 September 1977 on Northern Territory Self-Government (House of Representatives  Hansard, page  1087). 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Minister for Science announced on 17 August the Government's intention to establish, at a cost of $4.2m, facilities in Australia to receive and process data from the United States earth resources technology satellites known as Landsat. The facilities are expected to be operational by the end of 1979. The Government's decision was based on its recognition of the important contribution which Landsat technology could make to the task of monitoring and managing our natural resources. In the area of agriculture, Landsat will be of considerable value in assessing the potential yield and health of growing crops, and for monitoring the state of pastures particularly in the semi-arid areas of the country. Other applications include delineating drought areas and locating potential breeding sites for plague locust. 
Intending users such as State Departments of Agriculture will be able to purchase Landsat data products directly from the data processing facility in the form of photographic images and computer compatible tapes for detailed analysis by experts in the particular field of application. Charges for the product will be determined on the principle of recovery of operating costs once the facilities are fully established. 
Landsat satellites have the capability to detect a wide range of visible features on the earth's surface by recording reflected light. The amount of light reflected varies according to the properties of the surface features. Thus each feature has its own particular 'signature'. Once the signature of a feature is known it is possible to train a computer to recognise this particular signature from amongst others. By using this technique crops ranging from cereals such as wheat, oats and barley to vegetables such as tomatoes and onions have been identified using Landsat. In North America remote sensing techniques using a combination of satellites and aircraft are used for detecting illicit crops such as marihuana and opium for law enforcement purposes. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) My understanding is that an interim biological hazards committee is being established by the Council of the University of Adelaide. 
I have been advised that the Vice-Chancellor of the University is to chair the interim committee. The membership is to be drawn principally from the University of Adelaide and is proposed to include: a biochemist, a microbiologist from the Institute of Medical and Veterinary Science, a geneticist, a physical scientist, an agricultural scientist, an environmentalist, a senior technician, a lawyer, a clinical pathologist, three members of the university council who are not members of staff, three senior members of academic staff from the arts or social sciences, and a post graduate student. 
The Australian Government is not represented on the Interim Committee. 
I see no need to make submissions to the University of Adelaide's interim committee but expect that the advice of that committee, as with the advice of the Standing Committee on Recombinant DNA Molecules of the Australian Academy of Science would be taken into account in the deliberations of government granting bodies. 
The committee is comparable to the ethical committees established by various hospitals and universities to monitor certain types of research. In this regard, it is a matter for the university and not one for the government. 
At present, the responsibility to determine the conditions for the safe performance of this research rests with the Australian Academy of Science and it is anticipated that the potential University of Adelaide committee would liaise with the Academy. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The weevil released to promote the biological control of water hyacinth is becoming well established at its liberation sites. Liberations began in September 197S and should be completed by early 1 978. However, spread from the liberation sites has not been rapid, because of the length of the weevil 's life cycle. It is thus still too early to assess its impact. 
The project, which began in 1974-75, was initially funded by the Rural Credits Development Fund. However in July 1976 the Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the New South Wales, Victorian and South Australian State Governments, agreed to finance joint action to control water hyacinth in the Gingham watercourse near Moree N.S.W. As part of the Commonwealth contribution, CSIRO increased its consolidated revenue expenditure on hyacinth control by $15,000 in 1976-77. This level of consolidated revenue support is being maintained in 1977-78; there is also a contribution of $23,369 from the Rural Credits Development Fund this year. 
CSIRO is examining other insects that may contribute to the biological control of water hyacinth. In recent weeks a moth  (Sameodes albiguttalis)  was liberated near Gatton in south-eastern Queensland. A mass-rearing program is now under way and further liberations will continue during the summer. 
A second moth  (Acigona infusella)  is under consideration for introduction into Australia for evaluation under quarantine. Other, insects may follow as part of an expanded program on the biological control of water weeds. 
In order to ensure that the biological control program will be as effective as possible, support research is being undertaken into the biology and ecology of water hyacinth. Part of this work is an investigation of seed germination requirements, in collaboration with the Seeds Laboratory of the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture. 
For the information of honourable members I present a copy of an exchange of notes between the Australian Government and the Government of the United States of America constituting an agreement regarding the establishment, maintenance and operation of a solar observatory at Learmonth, Western Australia, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science relating to this agreement. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Science 1976-77. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Science and Industry Research Act 1949 I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation 1976-77. When bulk supplies become available copies will be sent to all honourable members. In the meantime copies of the report will be held in the Parliamentary Library and the Table Office. 
For the information of honourable members I present an exchange of notes between Australia and Japan on the Japanese Geostationary Meteorological Satellite Program together with the text of a statement made by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  in presenting the paper. 
For the information of honourable members I present the monthly report of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for September 1977. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the 20th meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council held in Adelaide on 5 August 1977. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim annual report of the Council of the Australian Institute of Marine Science and an interim financial statement for the period 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977. The final report will be tabled pursuant to statute when it is available. Copies of the interim report will be sent to all honourable members as soon as bulk supplies become available. In the meantime, copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and the Table Office. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
By way of introduction, it may be useful to state that expression 'genetic engineering' is taken to refer to research with artificially recombined molecules of DNA, the molecules carrying the hereditary message in cells. 
The answers to the specific questions are as follows: 
Under my portfolio, the CSIRO Division of Plant Industry. 
Three projects have been approved by the Australian Academy of Science Standing Committee on Recombinant DNA and are being carried out under the biological and physical containment procedures recommended by the Academy. 
Construction of molecular vectors for plant cells. 
Chromosomal mapping of ribosomal DNA sequences. 
Function of chloroplast DNA. 
The CSIRO projects fall into categories of experiments that may be carried out in standard microbiological laboratories, subject to the adoption of specified safeguards. It so happens that each of the three experiments mentioned above is subject to different safeguards, as recommended by the Academy, and details can be provided if the honourable member so desires. The laboratories in the Division of Plant Industry where the experiments are carried out are supervised by personnel trained in sound microbiological practices, including correct use of general and specialised equipment inactivation of biological material, and procedures for emergencies. 
The main channel of advice is the Academy's Standing Committee mentioned above. The Academy took the initiative in establishing that Committee to exercise control of genetic engineering experiments, when Australian scientists first expressed interest in conducting them. It reviews proposals for research and makes recommendations on appropriate procedures and safeguards according to guidelines developed by British and United States scientists in cooperation with the governments of their countries. CSIRO, in conjunction with all universities and Commonwealth and State research laboratories, has agreed to submit all proposed projects involving recombinant DNA molecules to the Standing Committee and to observe its recommendations. The Department of Health maintains close liaison with the Standing Committee and is currently reviewing this overall mechanism of control of genetic engineering experimentation in co-operation with the Department of Science and CSIRO. 

 Current Affairs Bulletin: Grant-in-Aid  (Question No. 1578) 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for Construction's reply to House of Representatives question No. 1793 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  27 October 1977, page 2579). 

 Mr JohnBracey (Question No. 1895) 
For the information of honourable members I present 'Antarctica ', an information paper, together with the text of a statement made by the Minister for Science in connection with the paper. 
Pursuant to section 24 (4) of the Metric Conversion Act, I present the seventh report of the Metric Conversion Board for the year ending 30 June 1977. In accordance with the same section, I report that no amendments were made to the Act and no regulations introduced. The Board continued to carry out successfully its function in achieving the object of the Act. Copies of the report will be sent to all members as soon as bulk supplies become available. In the meantime, copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and the Table Office. 
, for the information of honourable members, I present a paper entitled  Taxation Statistics 1975-76,  dated 1 November 1977, a supplement to the 55th report of the Commissioner of Taxation which was presented to Parliament on 2 November 1 976. 
Ordered that the paper be printed. 
On behalf of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  for the information of honourable members, I present the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission on copper ores and concentrates. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 1. (a) There is no body that is charged with the responsibility for co-ordinating solar energy research and development in Australia. 
CSIRO does receive most of the Commonwealth funds expended on solar energy research. 
The research is co-ordinated within the Organization and covers development as well as scientific aspects but excludes marketing. 
Australia is still one of the leading countries in the application of solar energy. For example, the application of solar energy at the soft drink factory in Queanbeyan was among the first industrial applications in the world. This development is shortly to be followed by a similar one at a brewery in Adelaide. 
The Government agrees that there is a need to bring solar energy research into a sharper and more objective perspective. However, it must be considered in relation to Australia's total energy needs. The National Energy Advisory Committee and the Australian Science and Technology Council have been asked to undertake independent examinations of Australian energy research and development needs and to advise on that matter. 
When their advice is available, consideration will be given to future energy research and development policies. The report on solar energy prepared by the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources will be taken fully into account. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Science maintains 16 libraries. These range from specialised technical libraries under the control of professional staff to unstaffed reference collections. 
The purpose of all libraries in the Department is to provide information and to collect publications to support the work of that section of the Department in which it is located. 
These libraries are attached to the various divisions of the Department and are located in all States as well as in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Central Office of the Department of Science has a small library located in Woden, Australian Capital Territory. 
The Bureau of Meteorology has a library located within its head office in Melbourne. The Bureau also has a small reference library in each of its eight regional offices; Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Darwin and Canberra. 
The Australian Government Analytical Laboratories have four libraries serving their regional laboratories in Sydney, Adelaide, Hoban and Perth. The Melbourne laboratory is served by the Bureau of Customs library located in the same building. Publications purchased for the Melbourne Laboratory are paid for by this Department and are registered as the property of this Department. 
The Antarctic Division and the Ionospheric Prediction Service each maintain one library located in Melbourne and Sydney respectively. 
and (3) The level of acquisitions, current holdings, annual costs, and the number of staff are shown on the table below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Libraries are established in the Department of the Northern Territory as follows: 
Central Reference Library (at present located in Canberra, but to be re-located in Darwin as soon as accommodation is available) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The responsibility for the Port of Darwin now rests with the Northern Territory Executive and the initiative to sponsor port development as a result of the options advanced in the Bureau of Transport Economics Report on the Provision of General Cargo Facilities at the Port of Darwin rests with the Northern Territory Executive. I understand that certain recommendations will soon be forwarded to me on these matters. 
Air Fares: Effect on Tasmania (Question No. 1816) 
For the information of honourable members I present an exchange of notes between the Australian Government and the Government of the United States of America constituting an agreement regarding the management and operation of the Joint Geological and Geophysical Research Station at Alice Springs. 
For the information of honourable members I present the monthly reports of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for October, November and December 1977 and January 1978. 
Pursuant to section 58 of the Darwin Reconstruction Act 1975, I present the annual report of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
and (3) Not applicable. 
Government Offices: Tea Making and Distribution  (Question No. SOO) 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The expenditure on the Stuart Highway between Darwin and Larrimah during 1 976-77 was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Advertising expenditure for periods: 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  1 and 2 See the table below.  1976-77  Expenditure on Travel 
1.- 
Overseas travel-$58,531 
Domestic travel-$642,628 
2.- 
Overseas- 5.6 per cent* 
Domestic- 61.7 percent* 
Please note a percentage of 32.70 per cent pertains to car hire, meal allowance and Reg. 90A for both Overseas and Domestic Travel. 
Yes. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes, the Minister for Science has seen the Natural Disaster Insurance Scheme for Australia discussion paper including the paragraph referred to in the honourable member's question. The Minister has been advised that the paragraph is a little misleading since, although there are regions in Australia where the potential for earthquake damage is significant, the risk is small compared to that in more earthquake-prone countries. 
The Department of Science has recently taken over from the Department of Defence as the Australian Government 's co-operating agency for the joint management of the Alice Springs seismological station. The take-over follows the station's declassification as a defence establishment and comes under the terms of an international agreement with the United States of America. However, the Bureau of Mineral Resources, which comes within the portfolio of the Minister for National Development, is the national data centre for earthquake and strong-earth-motion data. Computerised systems store all data relating to the Australian region obtained by all agencies in Australia, Papua New Guinea and by the World Data Centres. These data files have been the basis of such investigations as the one on Australian earthquake risk which was completed late in 1973 and is being used by the National Committee on Earthquake Engineering to formulate building design factors. Further detailed information on the activities of BMR as they relate to Australian earthquake occurrences may be obtained from my colleague the Minister for National Development. 
As far as the Minister for Science is aware, there have been many claims on insurance companies for earthquake damage during the last ten years; for example, claims approximated $2m following the 1968 magnitude 6.9 earthquake at Meckering in Western Australia. However, more details may be obtained from the Insurance Council of Australia which has its office in Melbourne. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Expenditure under division 455-2-01: Department of the Northern Territory: Travel and Subsistence was $1,497,791 in 1976-77. Of this amount, $2,721 was expended on overseas travel and $1,495,070 on domestic travel. 
The overseas travel component represented 0.18% of total travel expenditure. Domestic travel expenditure therefore represented 99.82% of the total. 
Yes. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Minister representing the Prime Minister to question on notice No. 1116 (Senate  Ilansard,  9 November 1977, pages 2397-8). 
Minister for the Capital Territory: Overseas Travel  (Question No. 276) 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Department of Science has not undertaken any relevant studies. However, CSIRO has studied coastal areas to assess the fragility of coastal dune systems in various locations, though not in the specific context of high-rise development. 
The processes of coastal erosion have been observed for centuries. The stability of coastal systems varies from place to place. On a strong rocky coast, the effects of development will be minimal. On a sandy coast, stability depends on the dynamic equilibrium between the surf zone, the beach and the frontal dune. The dune is a buffer that is eroded in times of marine attack and then builds up again naturally. As has been apparent on the Gold Coast, development of the dune area inevitably leads to serious and costly problems. In fact, any action that brings a large number of people to the foredunes without adequate controls will seriously damage the dune system. A caravan park, a parking area, or simply uncontrolled access by many people can be as damaging as building development. 
CSIRO has worked closely with, and provided advice to, State and local government authorities on coastal development and dune management in many areas around Australia. 
Examples are: 
the involvement of a CSIRO officer in giving advice to Queensland authorities following severe erosion problems at Surfers Paradise some years ago; 
the soil and topographical studies carried out by the Division of Land Resources Management at the request of and in conjunction with State authorities, along Perth's northwest corridor and the coastal strip between Mandurah and Bunbury. The purpose was to delineate areas too fragile for building and to provide planning information which related the suitability of the landscape to various uses. The findings were put to immediate use by State and local authorities; 
the Division of Applied Geomechanics' studies on erosion, as a basis for coastal engineering and mangement. The Division has helped State and local authorities to tackle a wide range of problems. Matters studied recently have been the coastal geology and quantification of erosion in the Warrnambool area in Victoria; landslip problems in the Lome area of Victoria; and problems with breakwaters in the Northern Territory; 
the survey by the Division of Soils of all the coastal lands between the northern tip of Fraser Island and Coolangatta. Twelve land forms were delineated within the area and possible land use conflicts that might arise within each unit were defined; 
the reinterpretation of soil maps made for agricultural purposes to meet urban needs in Townsville. This provided some of the information needed by the city council and consultants planning the city's growth. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1972,I present the annual report of the Council of the Institute of Marine Science for the year ended 30 June 1977, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science relating to the report. 
I regret that I was not able to be present in the House for all of the debate, but I do thank honourable members for their contributions. There is fairly wide support for the Bill. Although the Opposition has moved an amendment, the Government cannot accept it. During the debate reference has been made to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, which recommended in its report that an immediate study be carried out by a body such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to determine the economic viability of the softwood planting program on both strict financial grounds and on the broadest cost benefit grounds. The detailed study carried out by the BAE as a result of that recommendation and referred to by the Minister for Primary Indusry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech confirmed the likelihood of an oversupply situation developing in the softwood forestry industry if recent planting rates were maintained. A contributing factor to the development of that potential over-supply situation- this has been mentioned during the debate- was the high level of plantings achieved under the Acts which were based on earlier expectations of Australia's population reaching 20 million by the turn of the century. The BAE study was able to draw on the findings of the Borrie report. It is significant that the subsequent BAE study referred to in the second reading speech incorporated even lower population estimates for the years subsequent to the year 2000. These estimates had become available in the meantime. The second study placed more emphasis on desirable long-term planting rates. Estimates of desirable softwood planting rates over the 15-year period to 1990 were slightly higher than those originally put forward by the BAE but still did not justify Commonwealth assistance to new planting. It could be argued that over-planting of forest crops for a short period would present no problem, and indeed that has been argued during the debate. But the Government would be remiss in promoting levels of softwood planting which, on the basis of available information, would lead to a long-term over-supply situation. 
The question of continuing financial assistance to the States for softwood planting has been discussed fully at meetings of the Australian Forestry Council and its Standing Committee. The States did not dispute the general conclusion reached by the Commonwealth and did not seek finance for new softwood plantings after the 1976-77 financial year. Instead, the States requested that Commonwealth funds be made available for the tending of existing softwood plantations, which is the subject of the Bill before the House, and also for the purchase of previously cleared land. The environment benefits of directing a much greater new planting effort to previously cleared land are obvious. 
The second reading speech indicated that the Government would be prepared to consider financing land purchases in the next financial year. In its review of the States' request for financial assistance for land purchases, the Government will take into account its responsibility for economic management. It would be abrogating that responsibility for economic management if it made available the very considerable financial resources required to implement the new planting program which is implicit in the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  In conclusion, the Government believes that there is a need to update estimates of desirable planting rates at reasonable intervals to take into account changing circumstances, and a review is planned before the expiry of the proposed legislation. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer you to the answer given by the Prime Minister to Senate Question No. 1116 (Senate  Hansard,  9 November 1977, pages 2397-98). 
Department of the Capital Territory: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence (Question No. 277) 
For the information of honourable members, I present the monthly report of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for February 1978. 
Pursuant to section 19 (2) of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970, I present the annual report of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board for the year ended 30 June 1976, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science relating to the report. 
by leave- Honourable members will recall that Darwin was virtually destroyed by Cyclone Tracy on Christmas Day 1974. The destruction it caused was the worst suffered by an Australian city. It was turned into a ruin without essential services such as power, sewerage and water. Its survivors mostly lacked even basic shelter. The majority of the population had to be evacuated and the life of the city was completely disrupted. Between 50 and 60 per cent of its 1 1,000 or so houses and flats were damaged beyond repair with only a few hundred left more or less intact. Before the cyclone, Darwin was a vigorous, growing city with a population of nearly 50,000. After evacuation, the population was reduced to 10,000. The then Labor Government- with the full support of the Parliament- immediately established the Darwin Reconstruction Commission which came into existence on 28 February 1 975. At the time it was thought that it would take five years to rebuild the city. 
Due to the energy and initiative of the Commission, the building contractors and the local people, and the splendid support of the Australian community as a whole, the rebuilding of 
Darwin has been mostly completed in just over three years. As honourable members will appreciate, the difficulties involved in rebuilding a city as remote as Darwin were formidable. The logistics involved in securing adequate labor and materials were daunting and it is to the credit of all concerned that these were overcome in such a relatively short period of time. 
Over this period the Darwin Reconstruction Commission spent in excess of $300m. On housing alone, it spent $ 130m. It produced 1850 new and 800 rebuilt houses and 144 new and 128 rebuilt flats- a total of almost 3000 new units. This works out at almost 2.5 houses completed for every day since the cyclone. In addition, the Home Finance Trustee also provided special Commonwealth funds on concessional terms to private individuals so that their homes could be reconstructed without unnecessary hardship. These loans totalled over $38.5m. 
In addition to housing, the Commission undertook massive expenditures in the areas of education and health. Over $2 5 m was spent on the completion of new pre-schools and primary schools at Wanguri, Tiwi, Anula and Wulagi as well as the restoration of existing schools. A new high school at Dripstone costing $6m is about to be built. Some $54m was expended on the provision of health facilities including the reconstruction of the Darwin Hospital, community health centres, dental clinics and the construction of the new Casuarina hospital complex. Other major services such as electricity and sewerage restoration, the reconstruction of various office buildings, airport facilities, water supply and the provision of other essential services accounted fora further $9 lm. 
Over the past three years the population has progressively returned until today Darwin is in substantially the same position as it was before that tragic Christmas Day of 1974. Its population has returned to normal and it is once again a healthy and growing city. This could not have been achieved without the dedication and hard work of all those associated with the Commission. I pay tribute to the successive chairmen of the Commission, particularly  Mr Clem  Jones who has occupied this position since November 1975 and who has made a most significant contribution to the work of the Commission. The members and staff of the DRC are to be commended for their untiring efforts over the past three years. I can say little more than that I am proud to have been associated with this organisation, which formally ceases to exist today. On behalf of the citizens of Darwin and the 
Northern Territory generally, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the contribution made by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and all those people, men and women alike, who have been associated with it. I am sure all members of this Parliament share my appreciation for the work of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Minister to question on notice No. 468  (Hansard, 4  April 1978). 
I am aware of this matter because of some Press speculation in the Northern Territory. I had talks yesterday and Tuesday night with the receiver involved. Today I will be having talks with  Mr Everingham  in Canberra. After that I will be able to make some assessment and judgment of the situation. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the monthly report of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for March 1978. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Fishing Industry Act 1956,I present the twenty-first annual report on the operation of that Act during the year ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 19 of the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969, I present the eighth annual report of the 
Fishing Industry Research Committee for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of my Department were: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer you to the answer given by the Prime Minister to question No. 468 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) MyDepartment does not employ any full-time staff on tea-making and distribution. There are sixteen part-time people employed in Darwin only and these consist of seven part-time staff who work 25 hours' per week and nine parttime staff who work 20 hours per week. 
In 1976-77 salaries totalled $63,025. Other related charges in provision of tea services was $755. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Steering Committee on research into the effect of bauxite mining in the Darling Ranges was formed on 1 1 July 1973. 
The Western Australian Public Works Department, the Western Australian Metropolitan Water Supply Sewerage and Drainage Board, the Western Australian Forests Department, the Western Australian Department of Agriculture, the Western Australian Depanment of Industrial Development, the Western Australian Depanment of Mines and the Western Australian Depanment of Conservation and Environment are represented on the Committee as well as CSIRO and the University of Western Australia. 
The Committee's terms of reference are: 
To determine what studies, investigations and trials should be undertaken to evaluate the soil salinity characteristics of the various catchment areas, and quantify the effect of mining and reafforestation on water resources of the respective catchments. Such studies would need to provide objective assessments at an early date and would possibly be financed from State funds only. 
The success of reafforestation in catchment areas with particular reference to stabilising soil moisture profiles and water run-off and quality. 
The Committee has met on the following dates: 22 October, 6 November and 4 December 1973; 15 March, 8 April, 3 September and 5 December 1974; 30 January, 1 3 March, 24 April, 12 June, 24 July, 12 September and 30 October 1975; 2 May 1976; 31 March, 12 May, 10 November 1977; 16 March 1978. 
A report on state of knowledge was issued in May 1975. 
A review of the Committee's activities (May 1976) was tabled in the Parliament of Western Australia by the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, on 6 October 1976. 
I am not aware of the existence of such a Committee in any other State. 
Fire at Qantas Drive, Mascot  (Question No. 814) 
For the information of honourable members I present the resolutions of the 103rd meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council held in Adelaide, January 1978. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
1 ) The Steering Committee on research into the effects of the wood chip industry was formed on 20 August 1973. 
The Western Australian Public Works Department, the Western Austraiian Metropolitan Water Supply Sewerage and Drainage Board, the Western Austraiian Forests Department, Western Australian Department of Agriculture, the Western Australian Department of Industrial Development, the Western Australian Department of Mines and the Western Australian Department of Conservation and Environment are represented on the Committee as well as CSIRO and the University of Western Australia. 
The Committee's terms of reference are: 
To report on what measurements and predictive modelling would be required to determine sensitive areas, where problems might arise, and to determine what on-going monitoring would be needed to provide the conservator of forests with technical data on which to base his management and control of operations. 
The Committee has met on the following dates: 15 January, 6 March, 5 July, 20 November 1974. 30 May, 31 October 1975. 27 February, 16 July, 10 December 1976. 31 March, 12 May, 10 November 1977. 16 March 1978. 
The Report of the Steering Committee on research into the effects of woodchipping in the Manjimup area ( Kelsall Committee Review 1 976 ) was issued by the Department of Conservation and Environment, Western Australia, in November 1976. 
I am not aware ofthe existence of such a Committee in any other State. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following activities took place under Agreements for scientific and technical co-operation during 1977: 
US/Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation (signed 16 October 1968; renewed 30 July 1973). 
Thirty individual scientists from the USA visited Australia for the purpose of engaging in research work and to exchange scientific information. The details are: 
Professor T. L. Vincent of the University of Arizona visited  Dr B.  S.Goh of the University of Western Australia for research concerning management of biological systems, from August 1976 to June 1977. During this time he also visited the University of Queensland, the Australian National University and Griffith University. 
Associate Professor C. P. P. Reid of Colorado State University visited  Dr G.  D. Bowen of the CSIRO Division of Soils to study the role of mycorrhiza in relation to the growth of pine trees, from 1 September 1976 to 10 June 1977. 
Professor V. H. Dropkin of the University of Missouri visited  Dr A.  F. Bird of the Division of Horticultural Research, CSIRO to analyse the stimulus of egg sac secretion by Meioidogyne females (root-knot nematodes), from early September 1976 to July 1977. He also visited Department of Agriculture laboratories in several States during this time. 
Professor Sidney R. Ash of Weber State College, Utah visited  Dr R.  Gould of the University of New England to study the evolution of the Bennettitales in the Triassic of Eastern Australia, from 6 September 1976 to 1 1 August 1977. During this time Professor Ash visited other locations in Australia collecting fossil specimens. 
Professor G. M. Frye of Case Western Reserve University visited Professor V. D. Hopper of the University of Melbourne to collaborate in high energy astrophysics, from December 1976 to July 1977. 
Professor A. H. Brush of the University of Connecticut visited  Dr R.  D. B. Fraser,  Mr T.  P. MacRae and  Dr P.  R. Tulloch of the Division of Protein Chemistry, CSIRO to study the structural variability and protein heterogeneity of feathers, from December 1976 to August 1977. 

 Dr J. G. Tew of the Virginia Commonwealth University visited  Professor  Sir Gustav  Nossal and  Dr T.  E. Mandel of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research to study the role of cell-associated persisting antigen in the regulation and maintenance of the immune response, for twelve months commencing December 1976. 
Professor B. J. Biddle of the University of Missouri visited  Dr D.  S. Anderson of the Australian National University for studies of social responses of adolescents outside standard school systems, from January to December 1977. 
Professor T. Hymowitz of the University of Illinois visited  Dr L.  T. Evans and  Mr P.  Broue of the CSIRO Division of Plant Industry to collect seeds and plant specimens of the genus Glycine. He also visited the Waite Agriculture Research Institute, the State Herbarium of South 
Australia, Canberra Botanic Gardens, the CSIRO Division of Tropical Crops and Pastures, the State Herbariums of Queensland and New South Wales and the Agricultural Research Station at Grafton, NSW and also undertook collecting trips accompanied by  Mr Broue. His  overall visit was from 10 January to 2 1 February 1977. 
Professor K. W. Kemper of the Florida State University visited  Dr T.  P. Ophel of the Australian National University (ANU) to conduct research in nuclear reactions on the ANU Pelletron Accelerator, from 15 January 1977 to I August 1977. 
Associate Professor Myong-ku Ahn of Indiana State University visited  Dr R.  Mills of the Australian National University to study diffusion in liquids, from January to 1 1 August 1977. 

 Dr J. L. Lancaster of the University of Arkansas visited  Dr H.  Wharton and other officers of the CSIRO Division of Entomology to collaborate on research concerned with ticks and dung beetles, from late January to late February 1977. 
Professor J. A. Blake of the University of the Pacific, California visited  Dr J.  D. Kudenov of the Marine Pollution Studies Group of the Ministry of Conservation, Victoria to study the larval development and systematics of Spionidae (Polychaeta), from 30 January to 17 July 1977. 
Associate Professor W. C. Barna of the American University, Washington D.C. visited  Dr R.  E. Wass of the University of Sydney to undertake a comparative study of frontal walls in representative Cheilostome Bryozans, from 6 February 1977 to January 1978. 
Professor H. W. Schemer of Yale University visited Professor B. Rigsby of the University of Queensland to study Australian Aboriginal kinship and social organisation. He also undertook related studies in Western Australia, Canberra and Central Northern Australia and North Queensland. His visit was from late February to June 1977. 

 Dr R. H. Petersen of the University of Tennessee visited  Dr P.  H. B. Talbot of the Waite Agricultural Research Institute to undertake taxonomic studies of Clavarioid fungi of Southern Australia.  Dr Petersen  visited various other institutions as pan of this work.  His  visit to Australia was from  6 to  10 June 1977. 
Professor P. Somasundaran of Columbia University, New York visited  Mr John  S. Carr and Professor Thomas W. Healey of the University of Melbourne to work on research programs involving mineral processing, particularly selective flocculation and flotation separation of minerals, for nine weeks in May to July 1977. During this time he travelled widely visiting other institutions and companies involved in mineral processing research. 
Professor P. B. Tomlinson of Harvard University visited  Dr John  S. Bunt of the Australian Institute of Marine Science to undertake studies on the systematics and reproductive biology of mangrove plants, for six weeks in the period JuneJuly 1977. 
Professor E. G. Batte ofthe Northern Carolina State University visited  Dr J.  D. Kelly of the University of Sydney,  Dr J.  H. Arundel of the University of Melbourne and  Dr C.  Dobson of the University of Queensland to study certain parasites in pigs, from June to August 1977. 
Professor E. Teicholz of Harvard University visited  Dr R.  Sharpe of the CSIRO Division of Building Research, Melbourne to modify a computer planning model developed by the Division called TOPAZ (Technique for the Optimum Placement of Activities in Zones) which  is  used to model urban development processes.  His  visit to Australia was from 25 August to 3 September 1977. During this time, he also visited the CSIRO Division of Land Use Research in Canberra. 

 Dr John W. Bixler of the State University College at Brockport, New York is visiting  Dr Alan  M. Bond ofthe University of Melbourne to study fluoride complexes in nonaqueous media, commencing early September 1977 to mid July 1978. 
Associate Professor William H. Fuchsman of the Oberlin College, Ohio is visiting  Dr C.  A. Appleby ofthe CSIRO Division of Plant Industry to study the function of leghemoglobin heterogeneity in symbiotic nitrogen fixation in legumes, commencing 1 5 September 1 977 for nine months. 

 Dr Warren P. Stoutamire of the University of Akron visited  Mr A.  S. George of the Western Australian Herbarium to study the co-evolution of orchids and wasps in Australia, commencing September 1 977 for four months. 
Associate Professor G. Shorack of the University of Washington, Seattle is visiting  Dr C.  C. Heyde ofthe CSIRO Division of Mathematics and Statistics, Canberra and  Dr D.  J. Daley ofthe Australian National University to study problems related to the empirical process, commencing September 1977 for eleven months. 
Professor Joseph Keren of the Northwestern University, Illinois is visiting Professor G. I. Opat of the University of Melbourne to work on bubble chamber analysis of antiprotonproton interactions, commencing September 1977 for twelve months. 

 Dr S. Awramik of the University of California visited  Dr Malcolm  Walter of the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics, Miss K. Grey of the Geological Survey of Western Australia and geologists of BHP working in the Nabberu Basin of Central Western Australia in a comparative study of the Paleobiology of Precambrian iron formations.  His  visit to Australia was for three weeks in September 1977. During this time he also spent one week in the vicinity of the Hamersley Ranges of Western Australia. 
Professor A. Fry of the University of Arkansas visited  Dr R.  F. C. Brown of Monash University to undertake heavy atom isotope effect studies of organic reaction mechanisms, from 7 October 1977 to 5 January 1978. During this time he visited other institutions. 
Associate Professor James T. Staley of the University of Washington, Seattle is visiting Professor K. C. Marshall ofthe University of New South Wales and Professor V.B.D. Skerman of the University of Queensland to study the biology of aquatic bacteria, commencing October 1 977 for eight months. 

 Dr T. F. O'Malley (unaffiliated) is visiting  Dr R.  W. Crompton of the Australian National University to study anomalous pressure dependence and derivation of electronatom cross sections from transport co-efficients, commencing October 1977 for twelve months. 

 Dr D. M. Devaney of the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, Honolulu is visiting  Dr B.  R. Wilson and  Mrs L.  M. Marsh of the Western Australian Museum to undertake a systematic and environmental study of Indian Ocean ophiuroidea based on collections from the International Indian Ocean Expedition and from Western Australia, commencing November 1 977 for ten months. 
Fifteen scientists from Australia visited scientists in the U.S.A. and one scientist joined a U.S. Antarctic expedition for the purpose of engaging in research work and to exchange scientific information. Details are as follows: 
Professor R. W. Robinson of the University of Newcastle visited Professor F. Harary of the University of Michigan to conduct research on aspects of graphical enumeration in the physical sciences during December 1976 and January 1977. 

 Dr A. M. Sargeson of the Research School of Chemistry at the Australian National University visited Argonne National Laboratory in Chicago to work with  Mr James  C. Sullivan on pulse radiolysis of caged metal ions, during January 1977. 

 Dr D. . A. Catcheside of the Flinders University of South Australia visited Professor D. D. Perkins of Stanford University to conduct research into genetic recombination in the fungus Neurospora, from  5  January to 4 May 1 977. 
Professor R. A. Antonia and  Dr A.  J. Chambers of the University of Newcastle visited the Scripps Institution of Oceanography to work with Professor C. W. Van Atta and  Dr C.  A. Friehe, both of the University of California at San Diego and the Scripps Institution, on a study of smallscale structure of atmospheric turbulence, in May and June 1 977. 

 Dr It J. Lafferty of the John Curtin School of Medical Research at the Australian National University visited  Dr D.  Talmage of the University of Colorado Medical Center at Denver for research into the 'in vitro' response of T-cells to normal and oncogenic cells, from 26 March to 30 April 1977. 

 Mr S. T. Willatt of La Trobe University visited  Dr H.  M. Taylor at Iowa State University and  Mr R.  G. Struss of the Energy Research and Development Administration (ERDA) in Ames, Iowa to work on neutron radiography of in situ ' plant root systems, from May to July 1 977. 

 Mr I. F. Allison of the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science visited the U.S.A. to work with  Mr S.  Ackley of the U.S. Army Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory (CRREL) on research into energy exchanges and interaction between Antarctic sea ice, atmosphere and ocean, from June to August 1977. 
Professor J. F. Lovering of the University of Melbourne and Professor A. E. Ringwood and Drs S. R. Taylor and W. Compston of the Research School of Earth Sciences of the Australian National University participated in the NASA Lunar Science Conference in Houston from 14 March to 18 March 1977 where they reported on their research work on lunar samples. 

 Dr A. M. Gill of the CSIRO Division of Plant Industry visited a number of institutions in the U.S.A. to exchange scientific information on bushfire research and management, from 3 1 July to 28 September 1977. 

 Mr N. Kemp of the Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery joined a U.S. expedition to Antarctica led by Professor J. W. Cosgriff of Wayne State University to collect and study Triassic vertebrate fossils of the Fremouw Formation in the Cumulus Hills of the Transantarctic Mountains, from midOctober 1977 to mid-February 1978. 
Professor S. Rosenblat of the University of Melbourne visited Professor S. H. Davis of the John Hopkins University to undertake a collaborative project on bifurcation from infinity. This visit was for four weeks in October-November 1977. 
Professor B. H. J. McKellar of the University of Melbourne visited Professor M. Scaldron of the University of Arizona to study mesonic effects in nuclei, for four weeks in November 1977. 
Ongoing Activities were as follows: 
A high energy physics program including the Department of Physics of the University of Melbourne and the Department of Physics of Indiana University continued in 1977. Professor D. W. Devins and Drs W. Jones and  Dr Friesel  of Indiana University visited the University of Melbourne, from 29 January to 1 9 February 1 977, as part of this ongoing project. 
A project on astrometric studies of nearby stars from the Southern Hemisphere involving Assistant Professor P. A. Ianna of the Leander McCormick Observatory of the University of Virginia and the Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatory of the Australian National University continued through 1977. Professor Ianna visited Australia as part of this project. 
A program employing lunar laser ranging equipment involving collaboration between the Division of National Mapping of the Department of National Development and NASA, continued during the year. 
Collaboration between the University of Georgia and the University of Queensland and Macquarie University on earthworm and glow-worm bioluminescence began in late 1976. This project involves co-operation between Assistant Professor J. E. Wampler of the University of Georgia and  Dr B.  G. M. Jamieson of the University of Queensland on studies of earthworm bioluminescence and between Professor J. Lee of the University of Georgia and Professor J. H. Green of Macquarie University on glow-worm bioluminescence. 
A collaborative research project between  Dr J.  P. Ting and  Mr Z.  Hanscomb of the University of California, and  Dr C.  B. Osmond of the Australian National University on environmental factors affecting prickly pear growth concluded on 30 April 1977. 
Eight seminars were held under the Agreement as follows: on Lobster and Rock Lobster Ecology and Physiology, held in Perth from 26 January to 1 February 1 977. on Boiler-Turbine Modelling and Control, held in Sydney from 14 to 18 February 1977. on New Particles seen in Cosmic Ray and Accelerator Physics, held in Canberra from 20 to 24 June 1 977. on Poisonous Plants, held in Logan, Utah from 20 to 24 June 1977. on Basic Resistance Mechanisms of Bacterial Spores, held in Madison, Wisconsin from 10 to 1 3 October 1 977. on Electromagnetic Exploration Methods in DeeplyWeathered Terranes held in Sydney from 14 to 17 November 1977. on Energy Storage, Compression and Switching, held in Canberra and Sydney from IS to 2 1 November 1977. on Evolution of Light-Trapping Systems, held in the EastWest Centre, Honolulu from 12 to 16 December 1977. 
Inter-Governmental Agency Arrangements. The following arrangements exist: 
A Memorandum of Understanding between the US National Science Foundation and the Department of Science to foster international co-operation in scientific ballooning by jointly operating the Australian Balloon Launching Station, signed on S August 197S, pursuant to the US/Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Cooperation. The Memorandum was renewed in August 1976 for one year and renewed again on 26 May 1977 for a further year commencing 6 August 1 977. 
Arrangements for the exchange of information between Government agencies in Australia and the USA in the fields of drug analysis and detection, and water resources. The exchange of information in drug analysis and detection involves the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories of the Department of Science and the US Drug Enforcement Administration. 
The arrangement for exchange of information in water resources involves CSIRO and the US Department of the Interior. 
An arrangement between the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) of the US Department of Commerce and the Ionospheric Prediction Service of the Department of Science, became operative on 22 July 1977. The arrangement covers a collaborative program to observe radio and optical emissions from the sun and their effect on high-frequency radio signals around the world. 
India/Australia Science and Technology Agreement (signed 26 February 1975). During 1977, twelve Australian scientists visited India and two Indian scientists visited Australia under the Agreement. Details are given below. 
Visits to India by Australian Scientists: 
In January 1977  Dr J.  A. Sinden of the University of New England attended the 64th Indian Science Congress in Bhubaneshwar, and visited the Punjab Agricultural University and Orissa Agricultural University for discussions on resources management. 
In January-February 1977  Dr C.  G. Thomas of the CSIRO Division of Process Technology visited the Indian Bureau of Mines, Nagpur to collaborate with Indian scientists on ore agglomeration studies. 
In January-February 1977  Mr D.  W. Kerr of the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics visited the National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad, the Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Dehra Dun, and other Indian agencies for lectures and discussions on the magnetotelluric method of geological investigation. 
In June 1977 Professor G. M. Philip ofthe University of Sydney visited the National Oceanographic Research Institute, Goa, the National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad, the University of Cochin, and various mining projects for discussions on marine geology, coal exploration and applied geochemistry. 
In June 1977  Dr J.  D. Colwell ofthe CSIRO Division of Soils made a visit to several Indian research institutions to assess the results of experiments on fertiliser applications. 
In November 1977 Professor A. F. Wilson ofthe University of Queensland and  Dr R.  W. Nesbitt of the University of Adelaide visited India to take part in a symposium and field studies on archaean geochemistry and geochronology. 
In November 1977 four agricultural scientists  (Dr P. D. Whitman, Dr D. E. Byth, and Mr E. S. Wallis of the University of Queensland, and Mr F. R. From, a farmer and expert on pigeon-pea production)  visited India to exchange information and make field studies on the agronomy breeding of pigeon-pea. 
In December 1977  Dr J.  W. Possingham, Chief of the CSIRO Division of Horticultural Research, visited India to attend a symposium on citrus horticulture and to study horticultural research at various Indian Institutions. 
Visits to Australia by Indian Scientists: 

 Dr M. S. Naik of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, visited Australia from August to December 1977 to participate in research on biological nitrogen fixation at the Waite Agricultural Research Institute. 

 Dr G. S. R. Krishnamurti of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, visited Australia from October to December 1 977 to carry out a research project on soil structure at the CSIRO Division of Soils. 
Federal Republic of Germany (FRG)/Australia Science and Technology Agreement (signed 24 August 1 976). 
One scientist from Australia visited Germany. Three West German officials and seven West German industrialists visited Australia. Details are as follows: 

 Dr N Exon of the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics visited West Germany for three months from August to November 1977 to assist in the evaluation of data accumulated during the 'Valdivia' cruise mentioned below. 
A three-man scientific delegation from the FRG, led by  Dr G.  Lehr ofthe Federal Ministry for Research and Technology, visited Australia in April/May 1977 for discussions on Agreement matters and on a proposal for a coal liquefaction project. 
Seven industrialists from various FRG commercial organisations led by Professor K. H. Imhausen also visited Australia during the same period to discuss the coal liquefaction project. 
Marine Science- Ten Australian scientists participated in marine science expeditions on board West German research vessels. Details are: 
Three Australian scientists from the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics and six from the Flinders University of South Australia took pan in a marine geological and geophysical survey to the north west of Australia on board the West German Research Vessel 'Valdivia' '. The cruise took place over the period February to June 1977. 
On 18 December  Mr D.  J. Tranter of the CSIRO Division of Fisheries and Oceanography left Australia to join the FRG Research Vessel 'Walter Herwig', for a sevenweek expedition to study krill in Antarctic waters. 
Australia/USSR Agreement on Scientific and Technical Co-operation (signed 15 January 1975). In 1977, twelve Australian scientists visited the Soviet Union. Twenty one Soviet scientists visited Australia, including an exploratory delegation to investigate the possibilities for co-operation in the field of animal sciences. Details of the visits are: 
a) Visits by Australian Scientists to the Soviet Union: 

 Dr B. J. McAveney, CSIRO, Australian Numerical Meteorology Research Centre, to study computation methods and investigate atmospheric modelling techniques 4 May to 3 November 1977. 

 Dr R. C. Horwitz, CSIRO, Division of Mineralogy, to study the palaeogeography ofthe Precambrian II System ofthe USSR-1 1 May to 23 June 1977. 

 Dr G. Buselli, CSIRO, Division of Mineral Physics, to conduct discussions and comparison experiments on the inductive properties of minerals- 1 6 May to 1 1 September 1977. 
M. Francis, W.A. Depanment of Agriculture; D. R. Marshall, CSIRO, Division of Plant Industry; R. A. Mcintosh, Sydney University, for an Australian/Soviet symposium on the use of genetic resources in plant breed- ing-21 May to 3 June 1977. 
N. Bowden, W. A. Depanment of Agriculture; J. D. Colwell, CSIRO, Division of Soils, to study agrochemical services and the use of fertilisers- I June to 28 June 1 977. 
Thomson, CSIRO, Division of Plant Industry; G. Constable, N.S.W. Depanment of Agriculture, to study cotton breeding and agronomy- 25 July to 14 August 1977. 
A. Hamilton, P. M. Mcculloch, University of Tasmania, to undertake joint astronomical observations and investigations ofthe microstructure in radio emission from pulsars- 8 October to 12 December 1977. 
Visits by Soviet Scientists to Australia: 
Y. Voronin, All Union Research Institute of Plant Production; A. Y. Sikura, Ukranian Science Research Institute for Plant Protection, to study biological methods of plant protection- 15 January to 1 1 March 1977. 

 Dr V. A. Troitskaya, Institute of Earth Physics, Academy of Sciences of USSR, for discussions on co-operation in geomagnetism- 3 February to 2 March 1977. 

 Dr M. B. Gokhberg, Institute of Earth Physics, Academy of Sciences of USSR, for geomagnetic research on the electroconductivity ofthe earth's mantle- 17 February to 18 March 1977. 

 Mr G. K. Shutov, Byelorussian Agricultural Research Institute;  Ms L.  Kovlenko, All Union Research Institute for Plant Production;  Mr A.  M. Umnov, All Union Research Institute for Phytopathology, to collect samples of native Australian cotton, fodder, cereal and pulse plant varieties- 10 March to 9 May 1977. 
Or S. A. Sidorenko,  Dr A.  S. Novikova, Geological Institute of Academy of Sciences of USSR, for a comparative study of pre-Cambrian structures- 25 May to 15 July 1977. 

 Dr I. S. Zektser,  Mr R.  G. Dzhamalov, Institute of Water Problems of Academy of Sciences of USSR, to study regional hydrological evaluation and underground flows-30 June to 19 August 1977. 

 Dr L. I. Matveyenko, Institute of Space Research, to follow up earlier Very Long Base Interferometry (VLBI) experiments and assess possibility for further co-operation in interferometry measurements- IS October to 27 October 1977. 

 Ms G. I. Sukhoruchenko,  Dr V.  N. Burov, All Union Research Institute of Plant Protection, to study genetic methods for the control of agricultural pests- 5 November to 12 December 1977. 

 Dr I. G. Moiseev, Crimea Astrophysical Observatory, to observe variability of selected radio sources- 19 November 1977 to 15 January 1978. 

 Dr O. Pokhotelov, Institute of Earth Physics, Academy of Sciences of USSR, to present lectures and to study plasma physics and the earth's atmosphere- 3 December 1977 to 12 January 1978. 

 Mr L. S. Stefanyuk, Ministry of Agriculture;  Dr B.  A. Bagri, Academy of Agricultural Sciences-,  Mr E.  G. Shugai, All Union Research Institute for Sheep and Goat Production;  Mr A.  P. Zharenov, Ministry of Agriculture; M. A. Kosminski, Ministry of Agriculture, to assess opportunities for co-operation in the field of animal sciences under the Australia/USSR Agreement- 29 November 1977 to 14 December 1977. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The CSIRO Division of Entomology has research projects on genetic control of two pests, namely, the sheep blowfly and the screw-worm fly. 
Sheep blowfly 
Sheep blowfly,  Lucilia cuprina,  the primary cause of flystrike in sheep, is the major pest of the sheep industry in Australia. The Division's research program aims at reducing the incidence of flystrike by using genetic means to reduce blowfly abundance. The over-all strategy involves the release of millions of genetically-defective laboratory-bred blowflies as fully-fed maggots that will complete their development in the ground and, as adults, mate with wild flies, spreading sterility and lethality through the wild population. 
The most promising strains of genetically-engineered flies so far developed are called translocation-male strains. Females of this strain are blind and cannot survive in the field. Males are not blind, but are partially sterile and transmit the genes for blindness to their female offspring. The combination of male sterility and female blindness can, in theory, cause genetic death rates of more than 90 per cent in each generation. If this mortality rate can be achieved in practice, it should be enough to control sheep blowflies in most years. Feasibility studies are continuing, involving releases of laboratory-bred strains over defined experimental areas. 
Screw-worm fly 
The Old World screw-worm fly,  Chrysomya bezziana,  is widespread in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. If it entered Australia, it would pose a very serious threat to our cattle and sheep industries in the tropics and subtropics. As a precaution against such an event, the Division of Entomology has a research group stationed in Papua New Guinea to study the biology and ecology of the fly and to assess the feasibility of genetic forms of control under Australian conditions. The applicability of the sterile male release method used in the USA against a closely-related species is receiving particular attention. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of my Department were: 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Last year  Mr R.  C. Old, M.L-A., the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture, wrote to me about annual ryegrass toxicity. He asked that resources of the Western Australian based CSIRO Division of Land Resources Management be diverted to the study of this problem. 
On 20 April 1977, 1 advised  Mr Old  of my support for the CSIRO view that resources of the Division of Land Resources Management should not be diverted, but that studies should continue in CSIRO's Division of Animal Health. 
CSIRO is conducting research on annual ryegrass toxicity, and in the two years to 30 June 1977, spent approximately $250,000 on it. I understand that other organisations which have studied or are studying this problem include- 
South Australian Department of Agriculture; 
Waite Institute, Adelaide; 
Institute of Medical and Veterinary Science, Adelaide; Western Australian Department of Agriculture. 
I do not have details of expenditure by these organisations and suggest that the honourable member approach them for such information. 
(a) and (b)- CSIRO's expenditure was as follows: 
The amendment is not accepted. The Government is not opposed in principle to establishing the fund on a revolving basis. The feasibility of establishing a revolving market support fund already is under study and will be the subject of discussions between the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Australian Wool Industry Conference in the near future. At this stage, no detailed proposal has been developed and the concept has been advanced by the industry on a broad outline only. 
A number of detailed aspects will have to be examined. For example, which portion of the fund, if any, can in fact be revolved? What balance of the fund would be necessary to be available before repayments could start? What is the continuing level of the fund needed to fulfil its purpose? At the moment, of course, the entire balance in the fund is invested in wool stocks and is not available for return to growers or for other use. The Government is hopeful that the level of wool in the Wool Corporation's stockpile will be reduced significantly during the coming year and thus contribute to easing the present burdens on wool growers in supporting the wool market. The Government does not accept the amendment. 
Question put. 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Keating's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Commonwealth Grants Commission Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions, will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's questions: 
Yes. The Committee reported its findings to the CSIRO Executive in October 1 977. 
The Committee did not seek formal submissions. The membership of the Committee was chosen for their knowledge of people and organisations concerned with energy matters. 
None. 
The report is an internal document prepared for the CSIRO Executive and was not intended for publication. In some cases, membership of the Committee was accepted on the understanding that the report would not be for general circulation. 
With the approval of the members of the Committee, the report has been referred: 
for information, to the Australian Science and Technology Council and to the National Energy Advisory Committee; 
for development of research recommendations, to a sub-committee of CSIRO Chiefs. 
The sub-committee of Chiefs made its recommendations on energy research priorities to the CSIRO Executive in February 1978. While this report largely confirmed the Executive's existing ordering of priorities for energy research, its recommendations are being examined by two Members of the Executive with the object of developing new initiatives for the Organisation. In this exercise, particular attention is being given to those recommendations that complement the findings of the recent Independent Inquiry into CSIRO. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. 
Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Amendment Bill and the Whaling Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
By aeroplane. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I consider it an honour to present this history making measure to the Parliament. As its title makes clear, the purpose of the Bill is to confer self-government on the Northern Territory. The progress towards this present goal in the two and a half year life of this Government, of course, is most satisfying and gratifying to me as Minister for the Northern Territory. I am sure that honourable members will support the philosophy behind the legislation. The people of the Northern Territory, in common with other citizens of our federal Commonwealth, have the right- indeed the duty- to control their own affairs through a democratically elected legislature. This is what we are now seeking to achieve. 
At Federation, the citizens of the Northern Territory, as residents of the State of South Australia, enjoyed the same political rights as other Commonwealth citizens. Because of the requirements of the Constitution, those political rights were removed in 1910 when the Territory was transferred from South Australia and accorded the status of a Commonwealth Territory. In a very real sense, the constitutional history of the Northern Territory since that date reflects the endeavours of the people of the Territory to regain the rights which they lost in 1910. That objective will not, of course, be finally achieved until the Territory is accorded statehood. However, there can be little doubt that, whilst not conferring statehood, the Bill now before the House will, when enacted, represent the most significant advance to date in the constitutional development of the Northern Territory. 
In reflecting upon the fact that it has taken some 68 years for the Northern Territory to achieve self-government, I was interested to note that it was not until about 1964 that the population of the Territory exceeded 50,000. In the 14 years since the population has doubled to its present figure of about 105,000. 1 hardly need remind honourable members that this growth has taken place despite the devastation of Darwin on Christmas Eve 1974 by cyclone Tracy and the wholesale depletion of the city's population which followed that disaster. I believe that the impressive growth of the Territory in the past one and a half decades bears full testimony to the interest and concern of successive Federal governments to promote the development of the Territory. During that period there has been a burgeoning of the Territory's mineral productionespecially manganese and bauxite- and an increased realisation of the very great potential of the mineral wealth which, as yet, remains untapped. As honourable members are well aware, the Alligator Rivers region constitutes a source of uranium of major significance by world standards. The lead-zinc deposit at McArthur River also has major potential. I am optimistic that these are but two examples of great mineral wealth on which the economic future of the Northern Territory will undoubtedly be based. 
Before directing my attention to the Bill, I would draw the attention of honourable members to the essentially bipartisan approach which has been adopted in this Parliament to the constitutional advancement of the Northern Territory. It was in 1947 that the first Legislative Council for the Northern Territory- albeit with a majority of official members- was established by the Chifley Labor Government. Through the 1950s and 1960s a succession of reforms to that Council was introduced by Liberal-Country Party governments, culminating, in 1968, with a majority of elected over appointed members. In 1974 the then Labor Government created the first fully elected Legislative Assembly. However, progress towards self-government was then halted when, at the Territory elections, the Labor Party was completely annihilated. On assuming office and in pursuance of the policy of this Government as announced during the election policy speeches of 1975, I had the privilege in 1976 of bringing before the Parliament a Bill which set the stage for the conferral of executive responsibility on the Territory through the creation of Executive Members of the Legislative Assembly. The Bill now before the House represents in a very real sense, a continuation of the endeavours of honourable members on both sides of the Parliament to meet the legitimate constitutional aspirations of the Northern Territory community, indeed, although it has proved necessary for presentational reasons to repeal the Northern Territory (Administration) Act, this Bill seeks the re-enactment, in largely the same form, of a large number of the existing provisions of that Act. 
I turn now to the Bill. As is appropriate in a measure of this type, the Bill commences with a preambular statement of the intention of the Parliament and the constitutional authority for giving effect to that intention. Part II establishes the Northern Territory as a distinct political entity for the first time. Part III provides for the legislative power and has the effect of retaining the present broad-based legislative authority held by the Legislative Assembly. The assent procedures provide that the final decision on laws dealing with matters in respect of which the Northern Territory has executive authority will rest with the Administrator. In respect of such laws the Government would expert the Administrator to act on advice from his Northern Territory Ministers. In the case of other laws the Administrator will have the option of reserving the measure for the Governor-General's pleasure. A reserve power for the Governor-General to disallow any laws within six months of their receiving the Administrator's assent is retained. Consistent with the principles of responsible self-government, the authority of the Legislative Assembly will be enhanced in several important respects. The Assembly will be able to determine its own size and, subject to guarantees providing for eligibility for candidature and voting and the size of electorates, it will control its own electoral procedures. The maximum term of the Legislative 
Assembly will be extended from 3 years to 4 years from the date the Assembly first meets after a general election. 
Part IV of the Bill deals with the conferral of executive authority on the Territory. The duty of administering the government of the Territory remains with the Administrator who, in respect of matters for which the Territory has executive authority, will be advised by the Executive Council established under this Part. Provision is made for ministerial appointments in the new Government of the Northern Territory and for such appointments to be made by the Administrator. The matters in respect of which the new Ministers of the Territory will have executive authority are to be prescribed by regulation. In this regard, I would draw the attention of honourable members to my statement to this House on 14 September 1977, which, among other things, outlined the matters for which the Territory will have executive authority. Those matters represent a very broadly based package of State-type functions. 
The provisions in Part V will enable the Territory to establish its own Treasury and exercise control over its own finances. The Territory or an Authority of the Territory will be able to borrow from the Commonwealth or on its own account as part of the Commonwealth's semigovernmental loan program. The Commonwealth Auditor-General will be empowered to conduct audits on behalf of the Territory. I interpose here that broad agreement has been reached with the Northern Territory Executive on the financial principles to apply on selfgovernment. The detailed quantification of those principles is now being undertaken with a view to letters of understanding being exchanged between the Prime Minister and the Majority Leader. 
The Commonwealth will continue to provide adequate financial support to the Northern Territory. Self-government will not be used as an excuse for reducing the overall level of financial support for the Territory and this has been made quite clear to the Majority Leader. However, the Government has always made it clear that associated with the assumption of executive authority must be the responsibility to raise a reasonable level of local revenue using the revenue efforts of the States as a benchmark. This proposition has been accepted and is being acted upon by the Northern Territory Executive. It will not, however, result in the citizens of the Northern Territory shouldering a higher tax burden than their counterparts elsewhere in Australia. 
The miscellaneous provisions in Part VI cover a series of constitutional type guarantees in relation to the freedom of trade and the acquisition of property on just terms. Other provisions cover the application of the Secret Commissions Act and the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to the Territory. The Remuneration Tribunal is to be authorised to act for the Northern Territory in matters relating to the salaries and allowances of Legislative Assembly members and ministerial office holders. Part VII covers the transitional provisions and its effect is to provide for the continuance of existing laws, the current Legislative Assembly and the Administrator. Where matters presently provided for under the Northern Territory (Administration) Act will become the subject of enactment, the current provisions continue to apply pending such enactment. 
The Commonwealth's interests in land in the Territory are to be transferred to the Northern Territory by the operation of this Part but provision is made to effect the transfer back to the Commonwealth within 12 months of that land being required by the Commonwealth for its purposes. Property associated with functions for which the Northern Territory receives executive authority is also to be transferred from the Commonwealth. Procedures are provided to enable the Territory to be substituted for the Commonwealth, by way of regulation, in contracts relating to transferred matters. 
The establishment of a Northern Territory Government will necessitate amendments to a number of pieces of Commonwealth legislation. Besides this Bill, the self-government package comprises some 14 separate amending Bills. Of these 12 could possibly be considered in cognate debate. These Bills are: 
Ashmore and Cartier Islands Acceptance Amendment Bill 1978 
Payroll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 
Air Accidents (Commonwealth Government Liability) Amendment Bill 1978 
Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill 1978 
Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Amendment Bill 1978 
Commonwealth Motor Vehicles (Liability) Amendment Bill 1978 
Northern Territory Supreme Court Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 
Ombudsman Amendment Bill 1 978 
Lands Acquisition Amendment Bill 1978 
Administrative Appeals Tribunal Amendment Bill 1978 
Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill 1978 
Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. 
Two others, the Audit Amendment Bill and the Commonwealth Grants Commission Amendment Bill, for a variety of reasons, must be discussed separately in the Parliament. 
It would be inappropriate for me to let this occasion pass without paying tribute to the people who, over the years, have made a significant contribution to the constitutional history of the Northern Territory. They are people who, while holding divergent political views, have been united and tireless in working and pressing the case for constitutional reform. It is people like Sam Calder, who has worked so tirelessly for so long to achieve this goal, Jock Nelson former Labor Territory member and Administrator, former members of the Legislative Council such as  Dr Goff  Letts who was so prominent in the initial transfers, the late  Mr Justice  Ward, 'Tiger' Brennan, Ron Withnall,  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff and many others who deserve the credit for what is taking place here today. 
There has been throughout the closest of consultation with the Assembly of the Northern Territory. The establishment of the Consultative Committee comprised of the Territory Executive and the Minister for the Northern Territory, continued consultation at officer level, meetings of Ministers of this Government with the Majority Leader and his  Deputy  and involvement in interdepartmental committee deliberations, have all made this an exercise in co-operation. I have welcomed and appreciated that consultation and cooperation for it has been a rewarding and constructive partnership of effort. It began with  Dr Letts  and  Mr Tambling  and has continued both firm and active since  Mr Everingham  and  Mr Perron  have assumed leadership of the Territory. 
In conclusion, I wish to express my confidence in the political and economic future of the Northern Territory. I have no doubt that the processes cif responsible government which will be set in train by this Bill will operate to the benefit of the Territory and, through it, the Commonwealth. I place on record my good wishes to the Ministers designate of the Government which will be brought into being on 1 July and express the hope that the responsibility which they are about to assume proves to be an enlightening and rewarding experience. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Comprehensive facilities for the most up to date tissue culture techniques will be available at the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory (ANAHL), Geelong. 
Tissue culture techniques are used for the growth of viruses. They are much cheaper, and more effective, than the infrequently used method of growing viruses in live animals. 
Monolayer, suspension, and organ cultures are used extensively in biological research, and for the production of virus vaccines. Live animals are only used to obtain essential information not able to be obtained by using other techniques. 
The staff to be employed at ANAHL will be fully conversant with the production and maintenance of tissue cultures and their use in fundamental and applied research. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Ashmore and Cartier Islands Acceptance Act 1933 so that, from 1 July 1978, the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands will be treated as a separate Commonwealth Territory. At present, section 6 of the Act provides for the Territory to be annexed to, and form part of the Northern Territory, and for the laws in force in the Northern Territory to apply to it. This situation would not be appropriate after self-government is conferred upon the Northern Territory. 
The Bill provides for laws for the government of the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands to be made by the Governor-General. The resultant principal Act will be similar to the Acts governing other Commonwealth Territories except that for the purpose of the application of Commonwealth Acts, and consistent with thencurrent status, the islands are to be regarded as an internal mainland Territory. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responsibility for the administration of the Northern Territory Primary Producers Board was transferred to the Northern Territory Executive on 1 January 1977. Accordingly, I have referred the matter to the Majority Leader,  Mr Paul  Everingham. 
Airlines: Anti-hijack Procedures (Question No. 984) 
The Minister for Science has provided the following response to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. By aircraft as stated in Question No. 102 1. 
For the information of honourable members I present the monthly report of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for April 1978. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following response to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. Antarctica in January 1976. (Noumea, privately, in December 1976). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of the Northern Territory is responsible for the administration of the Northern Territory- an area of 1.3 million square kilometres- and the information sought by the honourable member is as follows: 
1 ) One hundred and three. 
512,961.41. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Once, in March 1977. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
There are 108 officers and employees of the Department of Science whose telephone rentals are fully or partially paid by the Department. 
The cost to the Department of this expenditure in 1976-77 was $19,598. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The honourable member may be assured that my Department will respond to any request from the Administrative Review Council. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) The Coalition Government has for a number of years recognised the importance of fostering the development of Australian marine science. Tangible evidence of this is the establishment of the Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS) near Townsville and of the Queen's Fellowship scheme established to commemorate the visit of  Her  Majesty to Australia in 1970 and directed towards promotion of research in the marine sciences. 
The high priority which the Government accords marine science within our national scientific effort has been given further tangible expression over recent months. Australia's first marine research vessel, specifically designed to meet our scientific research needs, is to be commissioned in the next 2 to 3 months by AIMS. The 24.4 metre vessel will greatly facilitate AIMS's research programs to cover the whole of the Great Barrier Reef region rather than employing smaller vessels to work only in inshore waters as is the cast at present. 
Last August, the Government announced the go-ahead for the Department of Science to arrange for design and planning studies for an Australian Antarctic relief ship which is also to have a capability to conduct Antarctic marine science research. 
CSIRO is also examining the possibility of having an oceanographic research vessel built to meet part of its longterm needs and to provide some facilities for Australian scientists outside the Organisation. In the meantime, CSIRO is meeting its urgent need for research vessels on an interim basis by chartering R.V. 'Sprightly' of 43.3m length for oceanographic studies and F.R.V. 'Courageous' of 28.3m length for fisheries studies. The facilities provided by these vessels are supplemented by those of several smaller vessels which CSIRO owns. 
In addition, the 90m length RAN research vessel HMAS Cook, a classic oceanographic research ship, is due for completion in late 1980. It is anticipated that civilian scientists will have some access to these facilities, as with other RAN research vessels. 
As is well known, a comprehensive review of marine science in Australia is being carried out at present by the Australian Science and Technology Council (ASTEC) in the context of its overall review of Science and Technology in Australia. The Government will be much better placed to address the question of further research vessels following consideration of ASTEC's review. 
Australian Prisoners of War in Japan: Exposure to Radiation  (Question No. 920) 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Bills listed under Orders of the Day Nos 2 to 13, Government Business, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 13 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I propose to move amendments to clauses 2, 19, 21, 28, 43, 53, 56, 65, 69, 70, 71 and 75. 1 move: 
. Omit clause 2, substitute: 2. ( 1 ) Sections 1, 2 and 70 shall come into operation on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent. 
The remaining provisions of this Act shall come into operation on 1 July 1978.'. 
In clause 1 9, omit '2 ', substitute '3 '. 
In clause 21(1 )(a), after 'Service', insert 'or the Police Force'. 
In clause 2 1(2), omit paragraph (c), substitute: 
he fails to attend the Legislative Assembly for 2 consecutive months of any session of the Assembly without the permission of the Assembly; '. 
In clause 28, omit 'Act', substitute 'section'. 
In clause 43, omit 'that ' (second occurring). 
In clause 33(3), omit 'the commencement of this Act', substitute' l July 1978'. 
In clause 53, after sub-clause (5 ), insert (5a) Sub-section (5) does not prevent the making of- 
a law conferring the power to make determinations by way of the ascertainment of rights or obligations conferred or imposed on persons by law; or 
b ) a law conferring power on the Public Service Commissioner of the Territory, on a body established by enactment, or on the holder of an office established by enactment, to make determinations by way of the fixing of terms and conditions of employment of persons employed in the Public Service of the Territory or employed by that body or by the holder of that office, as the case may be. '. 
In clause 53(6), after 'enactment', insert ', or a determination referred to in paragraph ( 5  a)(  b ), '. 
In clause 53 (6), omit 'the date of commencment of this Act ', substitute ' 1 July 1 978 '. 
1. In clause 56, omit 'the date of commencement of this Act ', substitute ' 1 July 1 978 '. 
In clause 65, omit 'commencement of this Act', substitute 'commencing date'. 
3. In clause 69( 3 ), omit ' by ', substitute ' from '. 
In clause 70, omit sub-clauses ( 1 ) to (6), substitute: 
1 ) The Minister may, from time to time, recommend to the Governor-General that any interest in land vested or to be vested in the Territory by sub-section 69(2) (including an interest less than, or subsidiary to, such an interest) be acquired from the Territory by the Commonwealth under this section. 
The Governor-General may, on the recommendation of the Minister under sub-section ( 1 ), authorize the acquisition of the interest for a public purpose approved by the Governor-General. 
The Minister may cause to be published in the  Gazette  notice of the authorization by the GovernorGeneral and, in the notice, declare that the interest is acquired under this section for the public purpose approved by the Governor-General. 
Upon publication of the notice in the  Gazette  or immediately after the commencement of section 69, whichever is the later, the interest to which the notice relates is, by force of this section- 
vested in the Commonwealth; and 
freed and discharged from any restriction, dedication or reservation made by or under any enactment (not being an interest to which sub-section (6) applies), to the intent that the legal estate in the interest, and all rights and powers incident to that estate or conferred by the  Lands Acquisition Act  1955 in relation to that estate, are vested in the Commonwealth. 
An interest that may be acquired under this section may be an interest that did not previously exist as such. 
Upon the acquisition of an interest by the Commonwealth under this section, all interests that were held from the Territory immediately before the acquisition, being interests derived from the first-mentioned interest, are, by force of this section, held from the Commonwealth on the same terms and conditions as those on which they were held from the Territory. '. 
In clause 70 ( 10), omit 'day', , substitue 'date' 
In clause 71 (2)(a) omit 'day', substitue 'date'. 
In clause 75 ( 1), omit 'The', substitute 'With the consent of the Administrator for the Territory acting with the advice of the Council, the '. 
In clause 75 (2), omit 'date of commencement of this Act ', substitute 'commencing date '. 
I would like to have responded at greater length to the remarks made by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson);  but I say briefly that the legislative power of the Northern Territory is plenary in character, subject to laws made not being inconsistent with particular Commonwealth Acts in force. That power has been held by the Northern Territory legislature since 1948. Given the establishment by the Bill of the Territory as a body politic under the Crown and the conferment on its Ministers of the appropriate prerogatives, the quality of the executive power to the extent that it is conferred will be as ample as it can be. To confer executive authority by way of exclusion, as the amendment purports, it would be necessary to identify all matters of exclusive national executive concern not covered by an existing Commonwealth Act in an exclusive way. External affairs, defence in some aspects at least, and customs tariffs are obvious cases, but others might need to be added, such as coinage and legal tender as well as, of course, the major matters of Aboriginal land rights, uranium and related matters. 
At a number of points a reserved list would present the similar problems of definition, drafting and application to those said to be involved in specifying matters under the present clause 35. Possibly the existence of a reserve list might encourage legal challenges. In addition the balance in the present Bill would be significantly modified. Important clauses, such as clause 32(3), clause 69(5) and clause 71(2), have been drawn on the basis of a list of specified matters of Territory executive powers. I believe that we have almost reached a state of agreement with the Legislative Assembly as to the list of functions to be transferred. 
I turn to the amendments which I have just moved on behalf of the Government. Being conscious of the hour, I do not want to speak at length on them. The Government's amendments, which follow very close consultation with the Northern Territory Executive and the government federal affairs and law and government committees have, on the whole, the effect of tightening up the Bill as it was originally drafted. Perhaps I could categorise these amendments very briefly. The first amendment, the purpose of which is reflected in amendments Nos 5, 7, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16 and 18, is to allow the administrative machinery for the re-acquisition of the land which the Commonwealth will require for its own purposes to be put into effect before all land in the Territory is transferred to the Northern Territory Government under clause 69 of the Bill. Amendments Nos 2, 6 and 13 are drafting corrections. 
The third amendment has been included at the request of the Northern Territory Executive, as the Majority Leader has indicated that the Northern Territory Police Force may be removed from the Northern Territory Public Service. Amendment No. 4 provides for disqualification from membership of the Legislative Assembly in precise conformity with section 38 of the Constitution. Amendments Nos 8 and 9, which were drafted after very close perusal by Commonwealth and Northern Territory Public Service officers, have the effect of more accurately reflecting the intention of the clause. 
Amendment No. 14 is a redraft to meet a deficiency in the original provision, as a result of which subsidiary interests in land held by the Commonwealth for its purposes can be held from the Commonwealth. For example, as it was originally presented, the clause would have resulted in a lease on Darwin airport held by the Darwin Aero Club from the Commonwealth Department of Transport being held from the Northern Territory after 1 July 1978. Amendment No. 17 has been made to accommodate some concern which was held by the Northern Territory Executive and the federal affairs committee. I commend the amendments to the Committee. 
I have an amendment to clause 6, which reads in part- 
1 ) Section 49 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting 'Australia' and substituting 'the Commonwealth'; 
by omitting 'Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910-1959' (first occurring) and substituting Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act 1978'; and 
by omitting ' Legislative Council for the Territory by the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910-1959 to make Ordinances for the peace, order and good government of the Territory shall be construed as including provision to make Ordinances so applying' and substituting Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory or Australia by the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act 1978 in relation to the making of laws for the peace, order and good government of the Territory shall be construed as extending to the making of laws so applying'. 
I move: 
At the end of sub-clause ( 1 ), add the following paragraph: 
by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: "(2) Without derogating from the generality of subsection ( 1 ), nothing in this or any other Act shall be taken to limit the power of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory in relation to the making of laws relating to the prosecution in the Supreme Court of indictable offences against laws in force in the Territory under or by virtue of the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act 1978".'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendment; report adopted. 
I move: 
That the following Joint Address be presented to  Her  Majesty The Queen: 
TO THE QUEEN'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY: 
Most Gracious Sovereign: 
We, the Members of the Senate and the Members of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, pray that Your Majesty will give directions that a Mace be presented, by and on behalf of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, to the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory to mark the conferring of responsible self-government on the Northern Territory. 
With Your Majesty's consent, this gift will be presented to signify the role played by British parliamentary traditions in the development of the parliamentary system, and in the belief that the people of the Northern Territory will gain inspiration from those traditions. 
Honourable members will be aware that it is the Government's intention that responsible selfgovernment be conferred on the Northern Territory from 1 July 1978, as signified in the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill and associated legislation which was recently passed by the House. As the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory and its successor, the Legislative Assembly, were created by the Commonwealth Parliament, it is appropriate that a gift should be made by this Parliament to the Legislative Assembly. Following my suggestion, the Presiding Officers have agreed that the gift be in the form of a mace to be presented to the Legislative Assembly by a delegation from this Parliament. A mace brought into use with royal approbation or presented by royal direction is regarded as having great significance. With this in mind this joint address from both houses of the Parliament is commended for consideration by honourable members. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1976, $64,009.73; (b) 1977, $65,476.72 and; (c) 1978 (to date), $34,843.20. 
(a) 1976, 16,180 hours; (b) 1977, 14,867 hours and; (c) 1978 (to date), 7,167 hours. 
(a) 1976, 24 employees; (b) 1977, 13 employees and: (c) 1978 (to date), nil. 
(a) 1976, $60,782.83; 1977, $56,116.70; 1978 (to date), $27,995. 14. 
1976, $3,226.90; 1977, $9,360.02; 1978 (to date), $6,848.06. 
Nil. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Yes. 
See (5) below. 
(a) and (b) the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure on the Northern Territory forestry program will receive full and careful attention and a recommendation will be made to the Government on the action proposed to be taken. A statement will be made in the Parliament as soon as possible after these processes have been completed. 
Meeting of Ministers at Prime Minister's Residence  (Question No. 13) 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes, I am aware of the reference in the inquiry report to which the honourable member refers. 
My attention has been drawn to reference in the Inquiry report to the use of copper, pyrex and pre-cast concrete materials to which the honourable member refers. 
I have been advised that specific examples of these items were given to the Inquiry on an informal basis, upon request by the Inquiry which was attempting to substantiate allegations of specification of excessive standards. However the information was qualified to the extent that it referred to problems of some years ago. It was emphasised that currently unanimity existed between the Department and CSIRO over standards. The honourable member may be interested in the following information: 
No CSIRO building constructed in the last 10 years by the Department of Construction has been fitted with copper roofing. Five buildings have been fitted with copper downpipes where roof plumbing maintenance was likely to have proved difficult. One of these buildings also has copper gutters. 
During the last 10 years two laboratories constructed by the Department of Construction have used some pyrex glass plumbing. 
Precast concrete panels have been used for architectural and technical reasons at two locations. Several other buildings have small sections of precast concrete wall panels. 
The choice of the above materials was made during design discussions which took place between CSIRO and the Department of Construction. 
The Department of Science did not supply evidence to the Inquiry in regard to CSIRO 's Civil Works Program. 
I am informed that neither CSIRO nor the Department of Science provided to the Inquiry any evidence to support the Inquiry's observation that decisions of Department of Construction have increased costs by up to six times. There were informal discussions between members of the Inquiry and CSIRO at which the view may have been put by some CSIRO officers that before the Department of Construction introduced Project Management as their basis of operation buliding costs of projects built for CSIRO by the Department had been higher than CSIRO would have wished. 
I have no evidence that this was the case and I am certain that the cost of CSIRO laboratories compares favourably with the cost of the laboratories built for other Government Departments and for private industry. 
I have no additional information. 
I am informed that no formal evidence was lodged with the Inquiry by CSIRO or the Department of Science which supports the statement by the Inquiry that higher standards imposed by the Department of Construction had increased building costs significantly. 
However, there were informal discussions on these matters involving members of both the Inquiry and CSIRO Secretariats. The view would have been put that before the Department established its Project Management basis of operation there had been some difference of opinion over the standard of materials to be provided for CSIRO projects, but that more recently there has been excellent co-operation from the Department of Construction over the selection of materials for construction purposes. 
I can also inform the honourable member that I have no information which indicates that major increases in plumbing costs have resulted from the Department of Construction 's choice of material of construction. 
I have no information at all which supports this statement. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. My attention has been drawn to the statement to which the honourable member refers. 
I am informed that the reference on page 155 of the Inquiry report probably refers to control of funds for Capital 
Works, Furniture and Fittings and Repairs and Maintenance in CSIRO by the Department of Construction. 
CSIRO indicated to the Inquiry that the matter of control of funds for Capital Works in CSIRO had been the subject of a discussion with the Department of Construction and was under continuing review. The suggestion was made to the Inquiry that CSIRO be permitted further time in which to consider this complex question. The Department of Science did not present any evidence to the Inquiry on this topic. 
See (3) above. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question. 
1 ) Yes. My attention has been drawn to the statements in the report of the Inquiry referred to by the honourable member. I do not agree with this statement in any sense. In my view the project has been designed to a proper standard. 
Neither myself nor CSIRO possess any information which indicates that CSIRO considers there has been any extravagance in the construction of the National Measurement Laboratories at Bradfield Park. I am informed that CSIRO is well pleased with the construction of these laboratories. The Department of Science did not present any evidence to the Inquiry on this topic. 
No information was given to the Inquiry by CSIRO concerning any alleged extravagance in the construction of the National Measurement Laboratories. The Department of Science did not present any evidence to the Inquiry on this topic. 
Neither myself nor CSIRO has any evidence which supports the statement by the Inquiry to which the honourable member refers. The report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works which considered the National Measurement Laboratories, made no reference to a prestige' building. The Depanment of Science did not present any evidence to the Inquiry on this topic. 
No evidence is possessed by the Department of Science, CSIRO nor myself which supports the statement to which the honourable member refers. 
Windows at the National Measurement Laboratories are glazed with gold tinted 'glaverbel ' stopray glass which incorporates a metallic gold tinted film. These windows were provided for technical reasons, viz (a) electromagnetic screening from adjacent TV stations, etc., and (b) for economic reasons (reduction in air-conditioning capital and running costs). 
The windows are acceptable to CSIRO. The Department of Science is not involved in this aspect. 
See (6) above. 
The type of windows was specifically referred to in the Parliamentary Public Works Committee hearings and was supported by CSIRO without reservation. The Department of Science did not give evidence before the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works on this matter. 
No cost savings was suggested to the Depanment of Construction by CSIRO during the design or construction of the laboratories which were not included in the final construction. The Department of Science was not involved in the design or construction of this laboratory. 
Not applicable. See answer to Question (9) above. 
Representatives of CSIRO gave evidence on oath to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works as stated by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of the Northern Territory does not operate a staff canteen. 
to ( 10) Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2)I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Nil- The only canteen facilities operating within the Department were controlled by the Bureau of Meteorology in Melbourne. The service was handed over to the Commonwealth Hostels Ltd on the 24 June 1 977. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis within the division of cost prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Direction Section 8. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Handover of these services was completed on 13.11.77. However in 1976-77 the cafeterias listed in (4) were operated by the Department of Veterans' Affairs. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions, Section 8. 
(3)- 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable members 's question: 
In Australia, although it is feasible to add a wind chill factor to weather forecasts, the climate of the populated areas, even in the southern states in winter is not sufficiently cold for such a service to be warranted. The Bureau of Meteorology issues sheep weather alerts when a critical combination of wind, rain and low temperature would lead to chilling (hypothermia) in sheep. These alerts may be issued in any state or season, but are more applicable to southern Australia in winter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) No. The Repatriation General Hospital, Greenslopes, as a part of the Department of Veterans' Affairs, is subject to staff ceiling restrictions as are all other Commonwealth Departments. The Repatriation Commission has directed that no patient is to be admitted unless an adequate standard of medical care can be provided. Patient intakes are carefully monitored in compliance with this policy and where the appropriate standard of medical care cannot be provided, arrangements are made for patients to be admitted to other hospitals. This is not a new development as no hospital can handle all medical situations. To attempt to do so would mean a concentration in numbers and quality of manpower and equipment which would be quite wasteful. In excess of $1,000,000 has been spent on specialised equipment at Greenslopes over the past five years. However, all items of equipment cannot be purchased immediately, as priorities must be set within the limits of funds available, but patient treatment has not suffered. 
Yes. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Question No. 1346) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The only statutory authority, corporation or undertaking established under a Commonwealth Act for which the Minister for the Northern Territory had responsibility was the Darwin Reconstruction Commission which ceased operations on 3 1 December 1977 and, after winding up its activities, ceased to exist on 1 2 April 1 978. 
Statutory authorities in the Northern Territory of a Statetype nature are established under Territory Ordinances. The majority of these bodies were transferred to the executive responsibility of the NT Executive on1 January 1977 with further transfers on 1 January 1978, or scheduled for 1 July 1978. 
The following funds were appropriated for expenditure under the Darwin Reconstruction Act: 
1975- 76 $114,632,000 
1976- 77 $145,990,000 
1977- 78 $93,804,000. 
The Auditor-General for the Commonwealth in respect of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
The Darwin Reconstruction Commission was established in 1975 under the Darwin Reconstruction Act 1975. 
There has been no such review or inquiry in respect of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Question No. 1369) 
The answer to the honourable Member's question is as follows: 
The statutory authorities, corporations, or undertakings for which the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs has administrative responsibility are the: 
Repatriation Commission; 
Repatriation Boards; 
War Pensions Entitlement Appeals Tribunals; 
War Pension Assessment Appeals Tribunals; and Defence Service Homes Corporation. 
(a) Repatriation Commission, Repatriation Boards and War Pensions Entitlement and Assessment Appeals Tribunals. 
Funds are not directly appropriated under the Budget for the Repatriation Commission, Boards and War Pensions Entitlement and Assessment Appeals Tribunals, but funds for salaries and allowances of these Repatriation determining authorities were appropriated under Special Appropriations as follows: 
1975-76- $885,996; (ii) 1976-77-$ 1,063,542; (iii) 1977-78-$ 1 ,  1 80,000 (estimate). 
Other administrative costs associated with the operation of the Boards and Tribunals are a direct charge to the Department of Veteran's Affairs administrative votes in the Budget. 
Defence Service Homes Corporation 
Funds appropriated in the Budget for the Defence Service Homes Corporation were as follows: 
1975-76-$ 139,342,000; (ii) 1976-77 -$74,027,500; (iii)1977-78-$61,362,000. 
In addition, there were special appropriations relating to the Corporation as follows: 
1975-76-$2,184,583; (ii) 1 976-77- $2,33 1,101; (iii) 1977-78-$1, 175,000 (estimate). 
(b) The funds for salaries and allowances paid to the members of the Repatriation Commission, Repatriation Boards and War Pensions Entitlement and Assessment Appeals Tribunals, are appropriated on a one line basis. Funds for the administrative costs allocated with operational expenses for these Repatriation determining authorities are appropriated on an itemized basis and included in the votes for the Department of Veterans' Affairs. The appropriations for the Defence Service Homes Corporation in 1975-76 and 1976-77 were on a one line basis and in 1977-78 on an itemized basis. 
The Commonwealth Auditor-General audits the activities of the Department of Veterans' Affairs (and where considered necessary, the Repatriation Commission) and the Defence Service Homes Corporation. 
The Repatriation Commission, Repatriation Boards, and War Pensions Entitlement Appeals Tribunals and War Pension Assessment Appeals Tribunals were established under the Repatriation Act 1920. The Commission and Boards were established in 1920 and the War Pensions Entitlement and Assessment Appeals Tribunals were established in 1929. The Defence Service Homes Corporation is the successor to the Australian Housing Corporation, which was established on 24 June 1975 under the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975. On 13 December 1976 the Defence Service Homes Amendment Act 1976 reconstituted the Australian Housing Corporation as the Defence Service Homes Corporation. Subsequently, the Defence Service Homes Amendment Act 1977 which came into operation on 1 July 1977, repealed the Acts, and re-established the Defence Service Homes Corporation under the Defence Service Homes Act 1918. 
5 ) The most recent review of the Repatriation system was carried out by the Honourable  Mr Justice  P. B. Toose, C.B.E.; his report was tabled in Parliament on 19 February 1976. The most recent review into the Defence Service Homes Corporation was carried out by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure and the report of that Committee was tabled in the House of Representatives on I June 1978. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Home Affairs  (Question No. 1371) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) None. 
The major functions of the Department of the Northern Territory were transferred to the Northern Territory Government on1 July 1978 and the residual functions are to be incorporated in the Department of Home Affairs as from 1 October 1978. In these circumstances I do not propose to pursue the suggestion of the honourable member. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes. Insect pests in stored grain and seeds are showing increased resistance to a range of insecticides, including malathion. 
Of the insect-control methods now in use, CSIRO considers fumigation with toxic gases to be the preferred method. It has particular application in controlling insecticide-resistant strains of pests. However, fumigation cannot readily be adopted in most Australian bulk grain storages because they are not gas-tight. The most commonly used method of insect control is still with contact insecticides such as malathion. 
Recent CSIRO research on a variant of fumigation- using controlled atmospheres- has established the value of the atmospheric gases nitrogen and, more particularly, carbon dioxide, in place of highly toxic gaseous chemicals. Associated with this work have been efforts to develop ways of sealing existing grain silos to make them sufficiently gas-tight for fumigation control. 
Widespread adoption of the controlled atmosphere method (or any fumigation method) depends largely on whether Australia's existing and future bulk grain storage and handling systems can be sealed to the required degree of gas-tightness. This is a long-term proposition. In the meantime, other solutions to the insecticide-resistance problem are needed, and CSIRO is experimenting with new chemicals and improved methods of insecticidal control. Both this and the controlled atmosphere research are carried out in cooperation with the Australian Wheat Board, State grain elevator boards, and State Departments of Agriculture. There is similar co-operation with two other CSIRO research programs on the control of stored grain pests, namely, control by cooled/refrigerated air, and control by hot air. 
Beef Exports to the United States of America (Question No. 1500) 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following industry research associations have been recognised by CSIRO under the terms of Section 9 (i)(d ) of the Science and Industry Act 1 949. 
Bread Research Institute 
Brick Development Research Association 
Leather Industry Research Association 
Sugar Research Institute 
Australian Welding Research Association 
CSIRO administers the Government grants to these associations. The basis on which grants are made is as follows: 
Brick, Leather, and Welding receive Government grants matching industry contributions on a 1 : 1 basis up to a maximum of $70,000, $150,000 and $200,000 respectively. 
Sugar receives $1 fom the Government for each $2 of industry contribution up to a  maximum  of $400,000. 
Bread receives a Government contribution equal to 54 per cent of industry contributions. 
The amounts received by the above research associations over the last six years were: 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
CSIRO has provided an analysis of research expenditures on the basis of expenditure by each of its research Divisions over the period requested. There have been organizational changes over the quarter century under consideration. Also, individual research programs may be of significance for more than one sector; for instance, studies on land resources may be relevant to the primary, mining and tertiary sectors. For these reasons, the figures should be regarded only as indicating broad trends. 
For the purposes of the analysis, the following definitions have been used: 
Primary Industry- Agricultural and pastoral production, forestry and fisheries 
Mining- Primary extraction, benefication and processing 
Manufacturing Industry- Manufacture of goods and equipment 
Tertiary- Broadly, the service area including such services as building, environmental management and conservation, health, transport and water. 
Residua) percentages represent work in the fields of standards, mathematics and statistics, computing research and radiophysics. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The following Standing Committees and technical subcommittees which provide advice to Commonwealth Departments and Ministers have a representative or representatives from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization. 
Technical Sub-Committees 
Animal Health Committee 
Technical Sub-Committee on Exotic Diseases 
Technical Sub-Committee on Bovine Brucellosis and Tuberculosis 
Technical Sub-Committee on Poultry Diseases and Avian Vaccines 
Working Party on Cysticercosis 
Working Party on Artificial Breeding 
Expert Panel on Diagnosis of Exotic Diseases 
Special Entomology Sub-Committee 
Consultative Sub-Committee on Animal Diseases 
Sub-Committee on Avian Diagnostic Reagents. 
Animal Production Committee 
Technical Sub-Committee on Dairy Cattle Production 
Expert Panel on Feed Evaluation 
Expert Panel on Australian Feed Stores 
Expert Panel on Conservation of Poultry Genetic Material 
Co-ordinating Committee on Agricultural Chemicals 
Technical Sub-Committee on Agricultural Chemicals 
Economics and Marketing Committee 
Entomology Committee 
Locust Sub-Committee 
Stored Products Sub-Committee 
Technical Sub-Committee on Insecticide Resistance 
Exotic Insect Pests Sub-Committee 
Insecticide Sub-Committee 
Shipping and Container Disinfestation Working Party 
Exotic Fruit Fly Working Party 
Fruit Fly Suppression Working Party 
Expert Panel on Lucerne Aphids 
Horticulture Committee 
Technical Sub-Committee on Horticultural Salinity 
Technical Sub-Committee on Fruit and Vegetable 
Postharvest Research 
Technical Sub-Committee on Dried Fruit Processing 
Natural Disasters 
Working Party on Fodder Reserves 
Plant Production Committee 
Australian Weeds Committee 
Plant Pathology Committee 
Chief Seed Testing and Regulatory Officers Committee 
Co-ordinating Committee on Seed Certification 
Vertebrate Pests Committee 
Extension Committee 
Budget Committee for the Australian Journal of Experimental Agriculture and Animal Husbandry 
Advisory Committee on Technical Conference Program 
STANDING COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL OF NATURE CONSERVATION MINISTERS 
Working Group on Kangaroo Conservation and Management 
Working Group on Woodchip Industry 
Working Group on Sub-professional Training Programs 
Working Group on Endangered Fauna 
Working Group on Endangered Flora 
STANDING COMMITTEE OF THE AUSTRALIAN FORESTRY COUNCIL 
Technical Sub-Committees 
Committee on Forest Fire Control 
Committee on Pests and Diseases 
National Sirex Fund Committee 
Research Working Group on Bushfire Research 
Research Working Group on Forest Genetics 
Research Working Group on Forest Hydrology 
Research Working Group on Harvesting Research 
Research Working Group on Mensuration and Management 
Research Working Group on Silviculture of Indigenous Forests 
Research Working Group on Silviculture of Plantations 
Research Working Group on Soils and Nutrition 
Research Working Group on Wildlife 
STANDING COMMITTEE OF THE AUSTRALIAN WATER RESOURCES COUNCIL 
Technical Sub-Committees 
Water Research and Education Committee 
Water Research Advisory Sub-Committee 
Catchment Studies Sub-Committee 
Technical Committee on Surface Water 
Technical Committee on Underground Water 
Technical Committee on Water Quality 
Working Group on Standards for Water Reuse 
Working Group on Novel Methods of Sewage 
Treatment 
STANDING COMMITTEE ON FISHERIES 
Technical Sub-Committees 
Southeastern Fisheries Committee 
Demersal and Pelagic Research Group 
Rock Lobster Research Group 
Abalone Research Group 
Scallop Research Group 
Northern Fisheries Committee Gulf of Carpentaria Closure Committee 
Western Fisheries Committee 
Co-ordinating Committee on Metals in Fish and Fish Products 
Advisory Committee on Fishing Applications of Remote Sensing 
Fisheries Pollution Committee 
Statistical Committee 
CSIRO is also represented on a number of other committees, set up to advise Ministers or Commonwealth Departments, but which are not normally recognised as Standing Committees. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the national highway linking Brisbane and Darwin Barkly Tableland Region. 
For the information of honourable members I present two monthly reports of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund, for May and June 1 978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is not available for the period prior to 1972 and could not be provided after that year without an undue and unwarranted diversion of limited staff resources from more relevant and essential duties. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Statutory authorities responsible to the Minister for Science are as follows: 
Anglo-Australian Telescope Board; Australian Institute of Marine Science; Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research ganization Metric Conversion Board; and National Standards Commission. 
(a) The funds appropriated to these bodies in the financial years 1975-76 to 1977-78 were as follows: 
Details of the appropriations were as follows: 
All bodies listed above are audited by the AuditorGeneral. 
The Anglo- Australian Telescope Board was established under the terms of a bi-national agreement between the Governments of Australia and the United Kingdom. This agreement forms the schedule to the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970. 
The Institute of Marine Science was constituted by the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1972. 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization was constituted under the Science and Industry Research Act 1949. 
The Metric Conversion Board was constituted by the Metric Conversion Act 1970. 
The National Standards Commission was constituted by the Weights and Measures (National Standards) Act 1960. 
A Committee of Inquiry into the CSIRO was established in October 1976 and the report was tabled in Parliament on 6 October 1977. The members of the Committee were Professor A. J. Birch  (Chairman), Sir Cecil Looker and Mr R. T. Madigan, O.B.E. The other statutory bodies have not been subject to independent review giving rise to a report to the Parliament. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The general arrangement in my Department and statutory authorities under my control is for any potentially valuable waste materials to be sold to commercial waste collection agencies or collected by charitable organisations. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
In Committee in the Senate the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  accepted an amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate to clause 6 of the Bill. The amendment reads: 
Insert after the words 'the Minister may' the words 'for the purposes of this Act'. 
I understand that this amendment was proposed in the Senate by the Opposition. It was accepted in that place by the Government and the Government has no objection to the amendment as proposed. 
Four speakers have spoken in this debate- the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  for the Opposition and the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  for the Government. I followed the discussion closely, firstly from my office and then in the chamber. I would like to thank all those honourable members for the very high standard of their contributions. It is not often that we hear in this House such constructive and well researched contributions as we have heard tonight. They have shown a very intimate knowledge of the industry and an understanding of and a sympathy with the industry and its particular needs. I felt that it was proper for me as Minister Assisting the Minister for Primary Industry to express appreciation for their contributions. I am delighted and I know that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will be delighted with the standard of contribution that we have experienced in this debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
For the information of honourable members I present the monthly report of the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for July 1978. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I express to the Opposition my appreciation for its assistance in facilitating the passage of this legislation. The purpose of this Bill is to validate payments of salaries and allowances made to members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly from 1 July 1978 under Determination No. 10 of 1978 by the Remuneration Tribunal. The measure is introduced at the specific request of the Northern Territory and is necessary to remove doubt as to the position of members of the Legislative Assembly. Section 65 of the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act provides, as a transitional arrangement, for the payment of remuneration and allowances under the relevant determination by the Remuneration Tribunal in force as at 30 June 1978. Although Determination No. 10 of 1978 was made on 19 June 1978, payments made under that Determination had effect from 1 July 1978. 
It could be argued, therefore, that section 65 did not authorise the Northern Territory to make the payments prescribed by Determination No. 10 of 1978 and that such payments are illegal. As a consequence of this, the view could be taken that all members of the Legislative Assembly have vacated their offices by virtue of section 21 (2) (e) of the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Act. That section provides, among other things, that a member vacates his office if he takes any remuneration or allowance otherwise than in accordance with a Northern Territory law providing for such payments. The object of this Bill is simply to remove all possible doubt as to the validity of payments of remuneration and allowances made to members of the Legislative Assembly since 1 July. I commend the Bill to the House. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Department of Science was asked by the Administrative Review Council to provide information relating to tribunals operating within the Department or under legislation administered by the Department. The Department of Science and CSIRO responded to that request. 
There are no relevant tribunals operating within the Department or within statutory authorities established by enactments administered by me. The Council has now sought further information based on a broader definition of tribunals. This information is presently being compiled and will be provided to the Council. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The table below provides the information sought in respect of CSIRO research studentships tenable in Australia; i.e., awards supporting higher degree study. Smaller numbers of research studentships are also offered by CSIRO for overseas tenure. 
CSIRO did not award any postdoctoral fellowships at Australian universities during the period 1968-77. Although CSIRO postdoctoral fellowships can be tenable in Australian institutions, that Organisation normally encourages recipients to take up the awards overseas in recognition of the value of overseas contacts at the immediate postdoctorate stage of an Australian scientist 's career. 
The decline in CSIRO 's resources being devoted to research studentships over the period in question reflects the CSIRO Executive's decision to devote more of the available resources to postdoctoral training, partly on the basis of the present wider availability of support for higher degree training from non-CSIRO sources. CSIRO 's present studentship/ fellowship program provides for the award of approximately 1 5 postdoctoral fellowships annually. 
The expenditure indicated for each year relates to the total spent in respect of both new awards and existing awards carried over from previous years. Since these awards are normally of between three and four years' duration, the figure shown for 1 968, for example, includes expenditure in respect of awards offered in 1967, 1966 and 1965 as well as the 28 new awards offered in 1 968. For this reason also expenditure was still being incurred in 1976 and 1977 despite the absence of new awards in these years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In leased premises, waste disposal is handled by the Department of Administrative Services, as stated in the answer provided by my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services, to question No. 1437 (House of Representatives  Hansard,15  August 1978, page 334). In other Departmental premises, including hospitals and other institutions most waste material is recycled having regard to its nature. Arrangements for recycling involve charitable organisation, private contractors and scrap merchants. Food waste is disposed of in accordance with State legislation. 
My Department is conscious of the current emphasis on the need to recycle waste material and the trend for community involvement in such projects. In all areas where waste is produced, investigations are carried out into the possibility of recycling and the means available in the area concerned. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Two. 
Coca Cola Bottlers Canberra Pty Ltd, at Queanbeyan, NSW-installed in January 1977. The South Australian Brewing Co Ltd at Southwark, SA- installed in July 1 978. 
In each case, CSIRO provided the collectors, heat exchange loops, and monitoring equipment. At Queanbeyan it also provided the thermal storage tank. The companies concerned were responsible for the installation of the equipment and its connection to their appliances. 
CSIRO paid $32,630 for the equipment at Queanbeyan, excluding instrumentation and monitoring equipment. The final cost of the solar equipment at Southwark has not been determined as the installation is still being commissioned, but on present indications it will be close to $68,000. 
The companies have the option to buy the solar equipment from CSIRO at the conclusion of the experimental period. The price is to be based on the capitalised value of the energy savings over an eight year period after the end of the experimental period. In each case the monitoring and measuring equipment will remain the property of CSIRO. 
Both. 
Reports are being published as the results come to hand. The most recent report on the industrial installation at Queanbeyan was published in April 1978 and is available to the public from CSIRO on request. I will send you a copy of that report. Significant results have not yet been obtained from the Southwark installation. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920 I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Science and Industry Research Act 1949 I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for the year ended 30 June 1978 together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science relating to the report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Staff in the Sydney Laboratory engaged on analysis as at 30 June for each of the last 7 years was as follows: 
in reply- I thank all honourable members who have contributed to this debate. This Bill was introduced in the Autumn session by another Minister. It has been debated on a previous occasion and the debate will be finalised today. The Government, of course, rejects the amendments that the Opposition has brought forward. They presuppose some very wrong principles. First of all, there is an allegation that there is no maintenance of the present eligibility of members of the defence services for housing finance. We have preserved eligibility for all those who enlisted before 17 August 1977, the date the announcement was made. There is no backdating. No one has lost anything. The new conditions are intended to provide an additional incentive for service beyond the six-year point. That is where the main wastage of the defence forces occurs. In response to other statements that were made, it is necessary to point out that because of the different engagement and re-engagement arrangements of the Services it is just not practical to nominate a total period that a member of the defence forces must undertake to serve in order to qualify for a loan. The proposal embodied in the Bill will confer eligibility for a loan on all servicemen and women engaged after 16 August 1977 when they have completed six years full-time continuous service and are committed to further service either through the conditions of the initial engagement or re-engagement. 
It has been alleged also that there will be inadequate scrutiny of the defence service homes insurance scheme. The new insurance arrangements will not prevent the Parliament from maintaining scrutiny of the insurance scheme. Amended section 38 provides for insurance to be undertaken in accordance with the statement of conditions. The original statement and each variation of the statement are subject to ministerial approval and must be tabled in each House of the Parliament. The Opposition then quibbled about a fee for consideration of the application for a loan for the first time. The fee is intended to offset part of the administrative costs involved in providing loans and, as such, is consistent with a practice followed by other lending institutions. 
When an application is withdrawn or is unsuccessful, the Defence Service Homes Corporation may refund whole or part of that fee. 
Regarding the allegation of a discriminatory preference scheme, I announced on 15 August 1978 that the Government has decided not to proceed at present with a previously announced plan to grant a measure of preference to war veterans because, in the absence of additional funds, it could have been introduced only by a substantial increase in the waiting time which applies to all applicants with only peacetime service. It has been decided to proceed with the proposed new section 27B so that in future if such a decision to grant that measure of preference is decided upon, it can be done without the need to await amendment of the legislation. With regard to the comment that increased funds should have been made available to restore the decline in money values, although the financial constraints on Government expenditure have prevented any increase in the maximum loan and it represents a smaller percentage of the cost of a home than it did some years ago- that is conceded- the economic strategy pursued by the Government has achieved a substantial reduction in the underlying rate of inflation. That has resulted in a consequential lowering of the rate of increase in house and land prices in most areas. This has been of benefit to all prospective home owners and is linked directly with the reductions in interest rates that have occurred among the major lenders of housing finance. 
I note also that the Government has maintained the present highly concessional interest rates on defence service home loans and the long repayment period of 32 years. The increase in the value of the interest concession over the years has been overlooked- it is usually overlooked. In the years between 1945 and 1952 the interest rates on defence service home loans were slightly above the long term bond rate. Currently, it is 4.5 per cent below that rate and more than 5 per cent below the most favourable rate obtainable from the major lending institutions. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said that there was to be an erosion of the defence service homes insurance scheme. There will be no erosion. The amendment is intended to allow the insurance scheme to operate more efficiently and more effectively for the benefit of people whose homes are insured. I have answered already the question that was raised previously regarding parliamentary scrutiny. The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  mentioned the cost of the insurance scheme. Over the years the costs of the 
Corporation have risen, but there has never been any cost to the Commonwealth from the insurance scheme. All costs are met from premiums paid by people whose homes are insured. The premium rate applying to loans insured was reduced from 1 July 1978 by about $5 for each dwelling insured. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  was a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure which held an inquiry into the defence service homes scheme throughout most of 1977-78. Reference has been made to that inquiry. It was a very good inquiry. There was no reference in that Committee's report to any opposition at that time by the honourable member for Grayndler to the application fee which was announced in August 1977. Nevertheless, he seems to be critical of it now. He and others have asked about the arrangements for consideration of that Standing Committee's report. The report and recommendations of the Committee are now under consideration by an interdepartmental committee which will report to me. In accordance with normal procedure, I expect to be able to respond to those recommendations on behalf of the Government later this year. 
I thank honourable members on the Government side for their support and their very constructive comments on this legislation. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  raised the matter of the amendments, but I will reserve my remarks on them for the Committee stage. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  raised the matter of court orders. What he said about them was correct. We will follow court orders, although very often there is not a court order to follow. All these points have been noted. Because of the time limit on this debate I will close with those remarks. I thank those honourable members who have made constructive contributions to this debate. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the GovernorGeneral recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I seek leave to move three amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
-The three amendments are to clause 3, which reads: 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting 'deceased unmarried person so specified ' from the definition of 'Female dependant' in subsection (1) and substituting 'deceased person so specified who was not legally married at the time of death'; 
by adding at the end of sub-section ( 1 ) the following definition:  "Widow", in relation to an eligible person who died after the commencement of section 3 of the Defence Service Homes Amendment Act 1978, includes a woman who lived with the eligible person as his wife on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis, although not legally married to him, for not less than 3 years immediately before his death. '; and 
by inserting after sub-section (3) the following subsections: (3a) A reference in this Act to the wife of a man shall, in relation to any time when a woman is living with him as his wife on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis, although not legally married to him, be read as including a reference to that woman if she has so lived with him for not less than 3 years immediately before that time. (3b) A reference in this Act to the husband of a woman shall, in relation to any time when a man is living with her as her husband on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis, although not legally married to her, be read as including a reference to that man if he has so lived with her for not less than 3 years immediately before that time. (3c) Where the Corporation is of the opinion that a person would, but for a temporary absence or an absence resulting from illness or infirmity, have been living with another person at any time on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis, the first mentioned person shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to have been living with the other person on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis at that time.'. 
I move: 
.  At end of paragraph ( b ), omit ' and '. 
After paragraph ( b) insert the following paragraph: (ba) by inserting after sub-section (2) the following subsections: (2a) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of the definition of 'Australian Soldier' in sub-section (1 ), a person who is or was- 
a member of the Citizen Military Forces; 
a member of the Women's Royal Australian Naval Service, the Australian Women's Army Service or the Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force; 
a member of the Australian Army Medical Women's Service but not a member of the Australian Imperial Force; or 
a member of the Voluntary Aid Detachment, shall not, by reason only of being or having been such a member, be taken to have been enlisted or appointed for active service outside Australia or on a ship of war. (2b) For the purposes of paragraph (c) of the definition of 'Australian Soldier' in sub-section ( 1 ), a person shall not be taken to have served in the Naval, Military or Air Forces of any pan of the King's Dominions, other than the Commonwealth, unless he served in such Forces- 
in an operational area outside the country or place of his enlistment or appointment for service; or 
as a combatant in an active combat unit. (2c) Subject to sub-section (2d), an Australian soldier who, by reason of his misconduct or misbehaviour- 
was discharged from, or otherwise ceased to be a member of, the Naval, Military or Air Forces of Australia; and 
is included in a class of members specified in the Schedule to the War Gratuity Act 1 945, shall not be treated as an eligible person for the purposes of this Act, but this sub-section shall not prevent a female dependant of such an Australian soldier being an eligible person. (2d) Where the relevant misconduct or misbehaviour of an Australian soldier referred to in subsection (2C) consisted only of his absence without leave, the Corporation may treat him as an eligible person for the purposes of this Act if the Corporation, having regard to the quality of his service outside Australia, considers it appropriate to do so."; and'. 
At the end of the clause insert the following sub-clause: 
Any person who, by virtue of sub-section 4 (2a), (2b) or (2c) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act, is not an eligible person for the purposes of the Principal Act as so amended shall be deemed not to have been at any time before the commencement of this Act an eligible person for the purposes of the War Service Homes Act 1918 or that Act as amended and in force from time to time. '. 
The first amendment seeks to omit only one word and does not need explanation. The second and third amendments go together. Legal doubts have arisen as to the effectiveness of certain longstanding ministerial directions relating to the administration of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918. Three such directions, two of which were issued as long ago as 1946 and 1948- the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  who was critical of them, ought to remember which government was in office then- affected the eligibility of persons for a defence service homes loan. Those directions have been followed continuously by successive governments from both sides of politics. In view of the legal doubts the Government has decided to take action immediately to embody the features of the ministerial directions in the legislation. 
One direction, issued in 1948 and reaffirmed in 1973- those dates ought to be significant to honourable members on the other side of the chamber- prohibits the granting of assistance to a person who served during the 1939-45 War in the Citizen Military Forces or the wartime women's Services unless that person served outside Australia. Another direction, issued in 1972 to confirm the policy introduced in 1956, affects the eligibility of persons who served in the armed forces of other parts of the Queen's Dominion during the 1939-45 War after residing in Australia. A third direction, issued in 1946 and reaffirmed in 1974, specifies the guidelines for disqualification of persons dismissed from the forces for misconduct. Therefore, the Government is resolving the doubts about the standing of ministerial directions which have long been followed by governments from both sides of politics. As recorded in the Senate  Hansard  of 3 December 1974,  Senator Cavanagh  then reaffirmed the ministerial directions as supplied by the then Minister for Housing and Construction. They are the reasons for the amendments. 
We have only a moment left, so I will try to respond briefly to what was said by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  First he said that the proposed amendments will not extend an additional benefit to any more people. Of course, they will not. I made that clear when I introduced them. They are designed to preserve a particular situation. Again, I would refer him to the Ministerial directive,  issued in the Senate on  3 December 1974, which covered these particular classes of people. We are preserving that in the legislation. The Bill does not extend any additional benefit; nor does it take anything away, or make anything more difficult for the people whom we are talking about. 
The honourable member made a comment about the sale of land. I will give him a more detailed response when I have had an opportunity to examine the matter but I can tell him at once that the $6m expected this year represents the sale of only part of those estates. Earlier I made clear to honourable members that, although we did not intend to activate section 27B, we would not withdraw it, and I gave our reasons for so doing. I thank honourable members for what I believe is their general support of this amendment. Certainly, I have not sensed any aggressive opposition to it from the other side. 
What we are doing in this Bill is simply embodying into legislation the features of the ministerial direction referred to by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  At this stage that is all that the second amendment is meant to do. Of course proposed new sub-section (2D) is relevant, but let me read the ministerial direction. It states: 
That assistance under the Act is not to be granted to a person dismissed from the Forces in circumstances where he was disqualified from payment of war gratuity under the War Gratuity Act or he would have been disqualified from payment of war gratuity had that Act applied to the period of service during which the misconduct was committed; provided that consideration may be given to the grant of assistance to an applicant dismissed from the Forces for desertion or absence without leave after his return to Australia, where, before the offence, the applicant gave reasonably good war service overseas. The current direction is based on a direction given on 17 October 1946 . . . 
Certainly I will take notice of what the honourable member for Hughes has said, but all we are doing at this stage in the amendments is embodying the ministerial directions in the legislation. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I  move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for amendments to the Repatriation Act and associated Acts to give effect to the Government's decisions covering: Nominations of persons to Repatriation determining authorities by organisations representing dependants of deceased veterans and exservicewomen; the provision for pulmonary tuberculosis to be dealt with in the same way as other disabilities; automatic adjustment of the main repatriation pensions in accordance with movements in the Consumer Price Index only once a year; the provision of an upper age limit of 25 years for student children undertaking fulltime education, in respect of whom Service pensioners receive additional allowances to their basic Service pensions; the provision for incometestfree pensions to be frozen at their present cash level and additions to income-test-free pensions to become subject to the normal income test as applied to pensioners under 70 years of age; and the removal of references to the sustenance allowance. There are also a number of machinery amendments. 
I will now outline to the House the provisions of the Bill. The Government over the years has received representations from organisations representing dependants of deceased veterans and ex-servicewomen that they be able to nominate persons for appointment to the repatriation determining authorities. At present the Repatriation Act provides that only organisations representing returned soldiers may make nominations. The Government believes that, by broadening the class of organisations permitted to make these nominations, repatriation determining authorities will more accurately reflect the composition of persons in the community whose lives are affected by the repatriation system. Organisations currently entitled to nominate persons to the determining authorities will, of course, retain their right of nomination. 
This Bill provides for amendment to the provisions dealing with pulmonary tuberculosis. Up to the present, pulmonary tuberculosis has been treated separately from other disabilities under the legislation and those suffering from or who have suffered from the disease have occupied a privileged position in relation to other repatriation beneficiaries. A veteran who has served in a theatre of war and contracts pulmonary tuberculosis, whether as a result of his war service or otherwise, is eligible to receive benefits under the repatriation legislation. Furthermore, a tuberculosis pensioner who is no longer suffering from active tuberculosis is entitled to receive a 100 per cent general rate pension and, as a consequence, free medical and hospital care for all disabilities, irrespective of whether they are war caused or not. 
While recognising that pulmonary tuberculosis is a horrible disease and those who suffered from it have had to endure a great deal, the Government is firmly of the view that there is no longer any reason for these people to be in a privileged position, particularly when the disease is no longer active. In future, only Service-related pulmonary tuberculosis will attract a disability pension and the amount of pension paid, as with any other illness or injury, will be determined according to the degree of actual incapacity. Veterans in receipt of benefits for pulmonary tuberculosis at the 100 per cent general rate will not lose their pensions, but will have these pensions frozen from 2 November 1978 at the May 1978 cash level of that rate. 
As the recipient of a pension equivalent to 100 per cent of the general rate or greater, a veteran who has or has had TB is entitled to free medical, hospital and ancillary treatment for injuries, ailments or medical conditions irrespective of cause. Treatment covered includes optical, dental and pharmaceutical. A veteran whose pension has been frozen will not be entitled to full free repatriation medical treatment other than for TB and other associated Service-related conditions. However, if he is a 1914 War veteran, an ex-prisoner-of-war or a Service pensioner who qualifies for fringe benefits, he will retain full free medical treatment rights. As with other veterans assessed at less than 100 per cent, and all other Australians, he will be covered for hospital and medical care at a uniform level. The Government will pay 40 per cent of doctors' schedule fees with a maximum payment by each person of $20 for each service. A doctor may bulk bill for a disadvantaged person so that he will not have to pay out of his own pocket. 
If a veteran's pension entitlement is reassessed at 100 per cent or greater, full restoration of free medical treatment will be made together with reimbursement of all reasonable costs, including medical and hospital insurance costs borne by him from 1 November 1978 and the date of reassessment. Commonwealth medical benefit will be available to those registered with a fund before 1 November 1978 or when they lodge their first claim with a fund. The normal waiting period of 2 months normally applicable to private health funds will be waived when a person lodges his claim between 1 November 1978 and 31 December 1978. The universal Commonwealth medical benefit will be available during any subsequent waiting period. If a person is satisfied with standard hospital care he need not join a fund. If he requires his own doctor in a public or private ward, it will be necessary for him to join a fund 
All veterans receiving pensions for pulmonary tuberculosis are to be reviewed to determine the severity of the actual incapacity arising from their pulmonary tuberculosis and other Servicerelated disabilities. If, on the extent of actual incapacity, they are found to be over-assessed, pensions will continue to be paid at the May 1978 cash level- $74.40 per fortnight- until such time as the cash payment for actual incapacity as assessed exceeds this level. Those veterans whose pensions are frozen from 2 November 1978 and who, on subsequent review, are found on actual incapacity to be entitled to a pension at the 100 per cent general rate or higher, are to be entitled to arrears of pension from 2 November and reimbursement of any medical expenses privately incurred from that date. It is considered that the changes provided for in this Bill will have only a minimal impact on future claims made for pension as, in 1977, only 76 disability pensions were granted in respect of pulmonary tuberculosis. Existing service pensions in respect of pulmonary tuberculosis will continue in force, but pulmonary tuberculosis will not be a special qualification for Service pension for which in future veterans will be required to satisfy the normal conditions of age or permanent unemployability 
I now turn to other amendments in this Bill which will implement decisions taken by the Government in the context of the 1978-79 Budget. The Repatriation Act, as currently framed, allows for the main disability pensions, namely, the Special Rate- totally and permanently incapacitated- pension, intermediate rate and general rate as well as the war and defence widows' pensions and Service pensions, to be adjusted automatically in May and November of each year, in accordance with movements in the consumer price index over the prior six months ended 3 1 December and 30 June respectively. In line with proposed changes to pensions paid under the Social Services Act, the main repatriation pensions will now be automatically increased once a year. Increases will apply from the first pension payday in November and will be in line with changes in the consumer price index for the 12 months ending the preceding June quarter. 
Provision has been made for the imposition of an upper age limit for the payment of additional pension in respect of student children who are in the care, custody and control of service pensioners. Currently, a service pensioner can receive in addition to the basic Service pension, additional allowances to assist support a student 16 years of age and over undertaking full-time education but no upper age limit is specified. 
The absence of such a limit is inconsistent with the upper age limit of 25 years applied in respect of family allowance under the Social Services Act and with the 25 years age limit included in the income tax legislation. 
It is the Government's view that the child of a Service pensioner will have had sufficient time to embark upon and complete his full-time education and attain appropriate qualifications to facilitate entry into a chosen vocation by the time he attains 25 years of age. It is now proposed that an upper disqualifying age limit of 25 years be applied in respect of the additional allowances paid to Service pensioners who are supporting student children. However, allowances already in payment in respect of student children 25 years and over will continue while students are undertaking full-time education. 
The Government has decided to make changes in the rules governing the rates of service pension payable in line with changes in social services legislation. I should explain that the Service pension is a social welfare payment, broadly equivalent to the age pension under social services legislation. The basic difference is that Service pensions are paid five years earlier than the age from which age pensions become available to take account of the indefinable and intangible effects of war service which could cause premature ageing and a lessening of ability to earn a living. They are paid five years earlier than the qualifying age for age pensions. In reaching its decision, the Government considered that provisions similar to those applied to social services pensions should apply to persons receiving Service pensions under repatriation legislation. 
Under existing repatriation legislation, a Service pension can be paid free of the income test to a person who is permanently blind or who has attained the age of 70 years. The Government has decided to modify the income-test-free provisions for persons aged 70 years and over, except for pensions paid to the permanently blind. Existing pensions will continue to be paid free of the income test at the current rate of $85.80 per fortnight each to a married couple or $102.90 per fortnight to a single pensioner. The November increase in Service pension will not be paid to this group of pensioners unless they qualify under the provisions of the income test currently applicable to persons under 70 years of age. Pensioners on reaching 70 years of age or those over 70 who have not applied for Service pension will automatically qualify for an incometestfree pension but it will be granted at the May 1978 rates or at such higher level as applies to them if they are able to satisfy the existing income test. 
The Bill also provided for an amendment to the Repatriation Act consequent upon the Government's decision to replace sustenance allowance with a more comprehensive loss of earnings allowance. Finally, there are a number of machinery amendments to bring the Act into line with the current drafting practice and to provide for consequential amendments following the removal of special provisions relating to pulmonary tuberculosis. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) (a) $885,339; (b) $ 1,063,883; (c) $466,031 . 
970,190 hours. 
In 1976-235; 1977-208; 1978-102. 
(4)- 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) 1976-$74,580; (b) 1977- $188,858; (c) 1978-$66,406. 
106,1 11 hours. 
(a) 1976-5; (b) 1977-12; (c) 1978-2. 
1976-(a) $72,579; (b) $2,000; (c)Nil. 1977- (a)$188,857;(b)Nil; (c)Nil. 1978- (a) $66,405; (b) Nil; (c) Nil. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim annual report of the Australian Wool Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I regret that the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  has been called from the chamber. He was here for most of the debate. Some points were made by Opposition speakers, chiefly, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  and I have some notes on those points which might be helpful to the House. Apparently in dealing with the Australian content of eligible goods there was some criticism of clauses 4(1) (a) and 4(1) (b) of the Export Expansion Grants Bill. That is exactly the same as the equivalent sections 5 ( 1 ) (a) and 5 ( 1 ) (b) of the Export Market Development Grants Act, which was passed in 1974 by the Labor Government. It means that normally there must be a 50 per cent Australian content but the Export Development Grants Board may use its discretion for a lower percentage. The Government is content that the Board will exercise that discretion with care. 
A question was asked about who gets the benefit. Apparently there was concern that the agent might get the benefit. I am assured that this is not so as Clause 3 (3) specifically provides that where an agent is used the export earnings go to the principal. Apparently a question was raised concerning the Trade Commissioner Service. The advice I have is that the Trade Commissioner Service is to be strengthened in the Middle East. Someone asked what is happening to the Export Market Development Grants Bill. Preparation of that Bill is almost finalised. There was no point in holding up the legislation before the House until that was ready. In any case exporters will not be getting the benefits from the revision of the export market development grants until the next grant year. I believe that a question was also asked in respect of freight subsidy. The point is that this could be a bottomless pit. The problem would be how to contain the cost. If freight is subsidised, the only effect might be for the rates to go up. They are the notes I have had handed to me. The Minister, in a Committee stage debate later, might care to comment further on those matters. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Mr Adermann  for  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That this Bill be referred to a legislation committee for report by 26 October 1978. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Depanment of Science has not made any current grants for research and study into soil and river salinity. 
There are no projects under investigation and thus no section of the Department is responsible for research activity. 
However, the honourable member may be interested to have a brief outline of some of CSIRO's involvement in this area. 
CSIRO, along with State Departments and universities, is actively engaged in a variety of research projects related to salinity. The research covers both irrigation and dryland salinity. The work is carried out at various places across the continent by the Divisions of Soils, Horticultural Research, Irrigation Research, Land Resources Management, Land Use Research, Tropical Crops and Pastures, and Environmental Mechanics. The honourable member will probably be more interested in the first three of these Divisions than the others, since their work is particularly relevant to irrigated and dryland agriculture in the Murray and Murrumbidgee Valleys. 
The Division of Soils has carried out surveys in parts of South Australia to provide information about the distribution of soils with salt in their profiles. The Division is also carrying out research concerned with the reclamation and use of salt-affected soils, with irrigation methods and soil salinity, with the behaviour of salt compounds in soils, and with the measurement of soil salinity. 
The Division of Horticultural Research is carrying out fundamental research into the effects of salinity on plant processes such as photosynthesis. At the Division's Merbein research station, emphasis has recently been placed on evaluating the effects of salinity on the performance of perennial horticultural crops and developing salt-tolerant crop varieties. 
The Division of Irrigation Research has worked out methods of farming irrigated rice-growing soils in rotation with the rice crop to minimise the effect of salt in the root zone. The Division has worked on the origin of salt and its movement in the environment. Researchers have worked on ways of detaching soil salinity slugs in river systems and have surveyed the soil salinity balance of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas. They have also studied the movement of salt in clay soils used for rice growing using water from the MIA. 
I thank honourable members for their part in the debate on the estimates of the Department of Science. I shall ensure that the comments, statements and some very constructive suggestions that were made are brought to the attention of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster).  Where he wants to give more detailed replies I shall make sure those replies are passed on to members. There were just one or two comments I would like to make. The member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  did make some complaint concerning the level of staffing of the analytical laboratories. A brief response I make is that the Minister for Science has not received any complaints from any of his colleagues about the level of services provided by the laboratories. Despite the staff reductions, the number of samples examined has not fallen significantly, largely due to new techniques which have led to increased productivity. 
The member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  commented on what he regarded as the insufficiency of research grants. He said that there had been an increase in the vote from $279,000 to $407,000. My information is that that only applies to the Territories and it is only pan of the story. There was a very substantial increase in research grants to the States- from $ 10.1m to $ 1 1 .9m. That is quite a substantial increase. 
There was a number of comments on the Birch Report. I shall not answer those at this stage because the Government is acting on that Report. Legislation will be coming to this chamber very quickly now. There will be a debate on all aspects of the Birch report. Probably the remarks will be more appropriate at that time. 
The member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  commented on the Australian Biological Resources Study. Very recently the Government announced long-term arrangements. An advisory committee will be established before the end of this calendar year. A report has just been received from the Government Printer on the first five years' work and that will be tabled very shortly. The study involves the resources of many Commonwealth and State agencies. Progress is not solely dependent on the funds that are shown in the Bill. Nevertheless, there are a great many species to be discovered and identified and the project will last for very many decades. 
There was some comment on the multiple mirror telescope which was recently developed in the United States of America.  Senator Webster  may feel inclined to reply in some greater detail to the comment and the observation there, but I just point out that the Government has announced its intention to establish a committee of astronomers to advise it on future developments in astronomy and to ensure that future investment in telescopes is made in the light of advice on the latest technology applicable to astronomy. That announcement made by the Government followed a full scale review of astronomy in Australia. Again I thank honourable members for their contribution to the debate. I assure them that I shall bring those comments to the attention of the Minister. Any advice he gives me I shall convey to the members who have participated. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In a statement on 1 1 May this year, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  informed the House of the Government's decisions on the recommendations of the report of the Independent Inquiry into the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Honourable members will also be aware of the companion statement made that same day by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  in another place. The Bill that I now bring before the House is designed to provide the appropriate legislative authority for the reorganisation of CSIRO and the other elements of the Government's decisions announced at that time which require legislative action. The Bill is the result of the most comprehensive review of the Organisation's performance and of its enabling legislation. The main thrust of the amendments it contains has three principal aims, all of which are directed towards creating an improved framework which will assist the Organisation to continue to serve the nation well in the years ahead and to optimise the benefits to the Australian people that can be derived from national government-financed scientific endeavour. 
Firstly, the Bill broadens and modernises the functions of the Organisation and invests the Organisation with the powers necessary to execute these responsibilities. Secondly, provision is made for a revised management structure involving a governing body of reduced size, which will be able to concentrate on policy issues, and the establishment of up to six institutes within which the Organisation's scientific research and other related affairs will be conducted. These institutes will be formed by aggregating the existing operational activities of the Organisation. Each institute will be under the leadership of a distinguished scientific manager. Thirdly, it establishes enhanced statutory advisory machinery to provide the governing body with highlevel advice on national needs and priorities with respect to scientific research. The Bill maintains the Organisation as a single statutory entity which will continue to be financed, in the main, by annual parliamentary appropriations. 
I come now to the specific provisions of the Bill. Clause 6 redefines the powers and functions of the Organisation although they continue to be expressed in broad terms. The main role of CSIRO is to carry out scientific and technological research for the purpose of assisting all sectors of Australian industry, furthering the interests of the Australian community and contributing to the achievement of Australian national objectives and to the performance of the national and international responsibilities of the Commonwealth. This research will continue to be undertaken almost exclusively in the fields of the physical and biological sciences and will be principally longer-term strategic mission oriented research, although fundamental and tactical problem oriented research will be pursued when it is related to the Organisation's role. The Organisation will have the power to arrange for research to be undertaken on its behalf, where the Executive believes this to be appropriate. 
Research into economics and the other social sciences will not be undertaken but the Organisation will continue to utilise requisite expertise from these fields in program conduct, evaluation and planning. Whilst CSIRO will continue to carry out work in fields of the physical and biological sciences that may lead to results with medical applications- for example, nutrition and cell biology- research in human medicine will not be a direct objective of the Organisation. CSIRO will be expected to pursue policies which will encourage and facilitate the use of the results of its research and will have powers to join in the formation of a company or partnership with commercial interests for the purpose of developing a discovery or invention. The collection, interpretation and dissemination of information drawn from world science and technology- as well as from the organisation's own professional officers and resources- for the benefit of scientific and technological advances in Australia, constitutes another function of the Organisation which is of fundamental importance. This is a matter to which the Government expects increasing attention to be given in future years. This latter function, although an integral part of CSIRO 's role as a research organisation, will also involve collaboration and consultation with other Commonwealth agencies active in this field. The training of research workers will remain a function of CSIRO. The Organisation is encouraged to co-operate with tertiary education institutions in this area. It will continue to be able to award fellowships and research studentships by arrangement with relevant universities and make funds available in aid of research, where these awards or funds will be to the benefit of its own research programs and objectives. 
Other functions of the Organisation have been preserved without significant change. CSIRO will continue to act as one means of liaison between Australia and other countries with respect to scientific research and make an important contribution to the nation's foreign technical aid programs. It has a responsibility pursuant to the Weights and Measures (National Standards) Act 1960 to maintain the national standards of measurement of physical quantities for which there are Commonwealth legal units of measurement. The Organisation will be required to establish and maintain standards of measurement of physical quantities beyond the present legal requirements placed on it, and to promote and participate in the development of calibration and other arrangements of benefit to Australian industry and the community at large. As in the past, scientific journals, periodicals and papers will be published by CSIRO and the Organisation will continue to co-operate with research associations in industry and otherwise develop new liaison mechanisms, particularly in the manufacturing industry sector. Pending the resolution by the Government of the future arrangements for funding industrial research associations, the Bill retains this responsibility as a function of the Organisation. 
The Bill does not alter the Organisation's responsibility under section 10 of the principal Act to co-operate with other organisations and authorities- both Federal and State- with a view to preventing, as far as possible, unnecessary overlapping of research programs. While CSIRO 's autonomy in setting research program objectives will be maintained, the Bill preserves the authority of the Minister responsible for CSIRO to give directions relating to the broad fields of scientific research and general policy. Such directions will be recorded in the Organisation 's annual report, together with any guidelines which the Minister may issue in relation to the policies of the Organisation in making available the Organisation's industrial and intellectual property, including the formation of partnerships or companies. 
Clause 7 of the Bill reconstitutes the Executive which will be responsible for managing the affairs of the Organisation. A separate office of  Chairman  of the Organisation is created. The person appointed to this office is a member, and the  Chairman,  of the Executive ex officio, as well being the full-time chief executive. The  Chairman  of the Organisation and the other members of the executive will be appointed by the Governor-General. As I have already indicated, the new Executive, as the governing body, will be reduced from the present 9 members, 5 of whom are full-time, to between 6 and 8 members, 3 of whom will be full-time. The parttime members, between 3 and 5 in number, will be persons appointed from outside the Organisation. 
It has been previously announced that  Dr J.  P. Wild will be appointed to the position of  Chairman  of the Organisation.  Dr N.  K. Boardman will be appointed as one of the other two fulltime members of the executive. The Government is yet to decide on the remainder of the membership. While the Government believes that it would not be practicable to specify in the legislation the individual roles and responsibilities of the full-time members, it envisages that the executive will allot individual responsibilities along the lines proposed by the independent inquiry having due regard to the personal qualifications and experience of particular members. 
Proposed Parts III, IV and V in clause 7 contain, in addition to policy matters germane to the requirements of the Organisation and the Government's decisions thereon, the usual provisions associated with statutory offices. Clause 6 of the Bill also provides for the creation by the executive of up to 6 institutes. The scientific research and related activities will be carried out in these institutes. Each institute will be headed by a senior scientist with the title of Director who will have responsible to him the heads of the particular research activities which will form part of each institute. The main role of the institute directors will be research management and coordination. However, they will also actively participate in the decision-making processes of the executive. The Government envisages that the titles, purposes and composition of institutes will vary from time to time and this is an aspect of policy that the Executive will keep under regular review. It is for this reason that the provision for the creation of institutes is expressed in the Bill in general terms. Action to establish these Institutes and to appoint directors is well advanced. Final decisions will, of course, await the appointment of the new executive. 
Institute directors will be appointed by the executive for a term of up to 5 years with eligibility for reappointment. As officers of the Organisation, their terms and conditions of service will be determined by the Executive pursuant to the proposed section 32 in clause 7. 
Proposed Part VII in clause 7 of the Bill establishes enhanced advisory machinery. There will be a new Advisory Council and new State committees in each State. The Advisory Council and its attendant arrangements are seen by the Government as a linchpin in the advisory mechanisms directed to assisting the Executive in the determination of the Organisation's research priorities. The functions of the Advisory Council will be to advise the Executive on the objectives of the Organisation and the priorities to be followed to achieve those objectives; industrial and economic matters that bear on the Organisation's work; and the identification of the interests of the Australian community that may be furthered by the Organisation. The Council will comprise a part-time  Chairman  and up to 24 other part-time members, including the Chairmen of the six State committees. The Council will be representative of a wide range of interests and these are set out in broad terms in the Bill. It is intended that the Council would normally include persons associated with primary, secondary and tertiary industry, as well as persons drawn from relevant community interest groups including organised labour. 
The Government intends that the Council will be composed of senior and respected persons from the relevant fields. Appointments to the Council will be for a term of five years with provision for renewal for one additional term. The Government agrees with the inquiry's recommendation that, other than in exceptional circumstances, no person should serve on the Council for more than two terms. The Australian 
Science and Technology Council will not be represented on the Council but proposed section 37 makes provision for this body to send an observer to Council meetings. It is envisaged that representatives of the executive would also regularly attend Council meetings as observers at the invitation of the Council. The Council will be required to meet at least three times each financial year but the Government anticipates that meetings could be more frequent than this. It is envisaged that the Advisory Council will establish working parties to examine particular areas related to CSIRO 's activities and operations. The Council will be completely independent of the Executive of CSIRO and will have its own secretariat. Its staff may be appointed or seconded from Commonwealth Departments and Authorities, State Government employment, industry, universities, or from CSIRO itself. They wil be engaged under the Science and Industry Research Act as a matter of convenience. However, clause 7 includes a provision which is designed to ensure that the staff of the Advisory Council secretariat are clearly under the direction of the  Chairman  of the Advisory Council. Clause 7 also provides that the Council's advice, together with the Executive's comments on it, will be incorporated in the Organisation's annual reports. 
The committees established in each State will be representative at the State level of interest groups, organisations and associations reflected at a national level on the Advisory Council. Their membership will include, collectively, representatives from the rural industry research funds. The State committees will provide a link with industry, centres of education, and the community generally at a grass roots level. The Bill provides for representatives of State Government instrumentalities to be appointed to the committees. These appointments will be made on the advice of the relevant State Premier. CSIRO officers will not be appointed to State committees as proposed by the independent inquiry. Rather it is intended that appropriate CSIRO officers will attend committee meetings as observers and act as an interface to ensure that fruitful channels of communication between committees and local divisions of the Organisation are sustained. The duration of committee appointments will be comparable to the provision that I have described for the Advisory Council. The Organisation will provide each State committee with the administrative support and assistance necessary for the successful performance of its functions. Details of meetings procedures and related matters will be prescribed in the regulations. 
In keeping with the commitment given in the statement of the Minister for Science of 1 1 May, the Bill provides for the establishment of a CSIRO consultative council. The council will comprise representatives of the executive and of staff associations representing CSIRO officers. The council will examine and report to the executive of CSIRO on matters which generally affect, or are of broad interest to, the staff of the Organisation. Regulations will be made to prescribe the manner in which the consultative council is to be constituted and carry out its functions. These regulations will be consistent with the agreement on these matters which has been worked out between the Organisation and the relevant staff associations. 
Important changes are made by clause 7 of the Bill to the annual report provision. The Organisation's future reports will include statements by the Executive on the broad policies pursued by the Organisation with respect to the determination of research program priorities and objectives and other elements of the Organisation's functions. Following an initial exposition of these broad policies, future reports will describe changes and developments in these policies. The Organisation's reports will continue to provide a broad outline of the results and progress of research programs. 
A number of other amendments of a routine nature are to be made to the principal Act. The staffing provisions of the principal Act are to be amended in accordance with the Government's decisions on the report of the independent inquiry. The sections relating to financial matters are substituted by proposed Part VIII in clause 7 of the Bill to reflect current drafting and administrative practice. Consistently with the spirit of the freedom of information legislation which is currently before the Senate and the Government's policy on access to official information, the Bill repeals the official secrecy provision contained in section 3 1 of the principal Act. Clause 10 sets out transitional provisions which protect the staff of the Organisation and preserve their employment conditions. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the changes reflected in this Bill are fundamental to the reorganisation of CSIRO which the Government believes to be highly desirable. The enactment of this measure will enable the new Executive to be appointed and to embark in earnest on the major tasks ahead. The successful achievement of these goals will, I believe, ensure that the Organisation will continue to maintain in future years the prestige it has undoubtedly acquired in the past 52 years and guarantee its continued responsiveness to 
Australia's needs. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the activities of the Department of Science for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1972 1 present the annual report of the Australian Institute of Marine Science for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In reporting its findings to the CSIRO Executive in September 1977, the Energy Review Committee (ERC) identified a possible shortfall in the supply of liquid fuels for transport as the only major energy problem that Australia was likely to be facing in the foreseeable future. As this conclusion confirmed the Executive's previous assessment of the energy field, no new initiatives or changes in the Organisation's research priorities have occurred since the ERC completed its report. Instead, the Executive has continued to accord a high priority to energy research and has endeavoured to redeploy resources from lower priority areas into those activities with the potential to avert or alleviate the short-fall in liquid fuels that is predicted to occur in the next decade. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2090 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2109) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The information requested is given in the table below: 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The station was operating during the period of the French tests and the seismic data collected were fed into the international network. 
to (4) Please see the answers to Questions on Notice Nos. 1820, 1831 and 1865. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The purpose of the Joint Geological and Geophysical Research Station at Alice Springs is to gather seismic data which aid in distinguishing underground nuclear explosions from natural phenomena such as earthquakes. When combined with data from other Australian stations, such data also provide information on the geology of Australia. 
and (3) Please see the answer to ( 1 ) above and part (3) of the answer to Question on Notice 1 820. 
Under the terms of the Agreement, the Department of Science has access to all data collected by the station. The Agreement does not specifically provide for access to the results of the analyses and interpretation of the data. However, results of analyses carried out in the United States are made available to the Australian Government through established channels which are independant of the Joint Geological and Geophysical Research Station. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question 2090  (Hansard  House of Representatives, 17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States (Question No. 2115) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department does not sell, hire or lend any information stored in its computers. It does, however, give certain information to other organisations as pan of the normal operation of specific computer systems. Details are as follows: 
In addition to the above, the Department provides statistical information in reply to queries such as parliamentary questions, letters to the Minister and queries from reinsurance brokers. This information is often derived from data held in departmental computers and takes the form of summary statistics with no reference to any personal information. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In July 1976, the Department of Veterans' Affairs commenced a study to investigate the relation between malignancies of ex-servicemen and service with Armed Forces overseas. 
This study provided no evidence to support suggestions that tropical service, or any of the tropical diseases studied, contributed to leukemia or allied disorders as suggested by  Mr Davies. 
The results of this study are available and are in a form consistent with the highest quality scientific reports. They are capable of independent assessment and verification by other scientists. The results are to be published in the scientific literature. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (3 ) CSIRO is not at present participating in environmental studies in the Alligator Rivers Region of the Northern Territory. However, discussions have taken place between the Supervising Scientist of the Region and the Executive of CSIRO concerning possible assistance which the Organisation might provide in the future. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
CSIRO has established a committee to review the operation of the National Measurement Laboratory. The members of the Committee are: 

 Dr J. R. Philip Associate Member, CSIRO Executive  (Chairman) 
Professor J. H. Carver- Professor of Physics, University of Adelaide 

 Dr W. I. McG. Tegart Manager, Melbourne Research Laboratories, The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited (now Executive Assistant to the Chief General Manager, The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited) 

 Dr Hill W. Worner Member, CSIRO Executive 
The terms of reference of the Review are: 
Bearing in mind that the Director will retire in 1 979 and taking into account the Government 's decisions on the recommendations of the Independent Inquiry into CSIRO, the recommendations of the CSIRO Working Party on Assistance to Manufacturing Industry and the recent occupation of the new laboratory at Lindfield, to: 
advise the Executive on the appropriateness of the objectives of the Laboratory's research programs and their relevance to the national and international responsibilities of the Laboratory and to the industries and scientific disciplines served; 
make recommendations on the future role of the Laboratory and its relationships with other divisions of CSIRO (hi) give any advice which may assist the Executive in the selection of a new Director; 
make any general comments on the scientific standards of the Laboratory's research work, the management and organisation of the Laboratory and the staff promotion policy and procedures; and 
report to the Executive on the means of implementing the decisions of the Government on the recommendations of the Independent Inquiry which relate to NML. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Currently 39 professional staff are engaged in textile research and 10 in minerals and energy work. There are no other research programs in the Division. 
The research program relating to minerals and energy commenced in July1976. 
In June/July this year the Executive commissioned a review of the research programs of the Division of Textile Physics, one of the terms of reference of which was to determine whether the minerals and energy programs should remain within the Division. 
The conclusion of the review committee was that the minerals and energy programs in the Division of Textile Physics, together with the staff involved in them, should become part of CSIRO 's Minerals Research Laboratories. The Executive accepted this recommendation. From an operational point of view it has already taken effect. From an administrative point of view, it will take effect from the date of the setting up of the new Institutes approved by the Government following the Independent Inquiry into CSIRO. 
The minerals and energy group will remain on the Textile Physics site at Ryde and will have its own on-site OfficerinCharge, who will report to the Director of the Minerals Research Laboratories (or the Director of the appropriate Institute). It is expected that there will be considerable short-term exchanges between this group and the existing minerals group with which it has most in common, which is situated close by at North Ryde. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question:  (l)No. 
See answer to (1). 
The Minister for Science has provided the following information to the honourable member's question: 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Normally, there are no circumstances under which departmental staff or the Minister's personal staff are authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. An exception may be granted if a Concorde flight is used to supplement a normal service and no additional cost is involved. 
Not applicable. 
No officers sought approval, or were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during the years mentioned. One officer from the Department of Science travelled on a Concorde aircraft on 1 1 October 1977 between London and Washington. The normal flight was cancelled due to aircraft failure and the passengers were off-loaded to a Concorde aircraft without additional cost 
Nil. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. Although it is not accepted that there was necessarily any error on the part of the Department of Veterans' Affairs, arrangements have been made with the Department of Social Security to see if it is possible to back-date his eligibility for invalid pension benefits to the same period for which he was paid service pension, and to apply the arrears of invalid pension to the overpayment of service pension. I understand that a decision will be made soon. 
The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) Of the nineteen areas of energy research identified as high priority by the CSIRO Energy Review Committee, CSIRO is currently conducting substantial research in twelve areas as follows, with their year of commencement indicated in brackets: 
Oil and gas exploration (1965) 
Synthesis of liquid fuels from coal ( 1973) 
Coal mining (1974) 
Coal resource assessment (1955) 
Coal beneficiation( 1969) 
Coal utilisation technology (1965) 
Conservation of liquid fuels (1975) 
Solar energy at low and medium temperatures (1955) 
Synthetic fuels from plants (1975) 
0. Uranium mining and primary beneficiation (1973) 
Coal transport by pipeline (1974) 
2. Long term environmental impact ( 1 960 ). 
to (5) Expenditures in each area have been estimated in thousands of dollars ($'000). These figures must be regarded as indicative only because of the need to make subjective evaluations in the apportionment of overhead and support research costs to each of the research programs. Further, because of changes to accounting and project identification procedures, early details are approximate only. 
Oil and gas exploration: 
1965-66-22; 1966-67-11; 1967-68-17; 1968-69-18; 1969-70-26; 1970-71-56; 1971-72-75; 1972-73-96; 1973- 74-72; 1974-75-100; 1975-76- 1 38; 1976-77-284; 1977-78-89; 1978-79-155. 
Synthesis of liquid fuels from coal: 
1973- 74-149; 1974-75-380; 1975-76-860; 1976- 77-1,480; 1977-78-2,144; 1978-79-2,116. 
Coalmining: 
1974- 75-100; 1975-76-491; 1976-77-671; 1977- 78-675; 1978-79-1,012. 
Coal resources assessment: 
1965-66-176; 1966-67-180; 1967-68-184; 1968- 69-216; 1969-70-212; 1970-71-1 12; 197 1-72-135; 1972-73-160; 1973-74-180; 1974- 75-180; 1975-76-183; 1976-77-51 1; 1977-78-416; 1978-79-634. 
(Figures prior to 1965-66 are not provided.) 
Coal beneficiation: 
1969-70-30; 1970-71-32; 1971-72-35; 1972-73-38; 1973-74-60; 1974-75-65; 1975-76-204; 1976-77-602; 1977- 78-326; 1978-79-334. 
Coal utilisation technology: 
1965-66-64; 1966-67-72; 1967-68-76; 1968-69-96; 1969- 70-102; 1970-71-105; 1971-72-99; 1972- 73-1 14; 1973-74-120; 1974-75-126; 1975- 76-139; 1976-77-174; 1977-78-182; 1978- 79-169. 
Conservation of liquid fuels: 
1976-77-249; 1977-78-343; 1978-79-434. 
Solar energy at low and medium temperatures: 
1960-61-31; 1961-62-53; 1962-63-71; 1963-64-83; 1964-65-88; 1965-66-108; 1966-67-1 18; 1967-68-142; 1968-69-170; 1969-70-170; 1970- 71-220; 1971-72-213; 1972-73-263; 1973- 74-340; 1974-75-536; 1975-76-522; 1976- 77-597; 1977-78-810; 1978-79-862. 
(Figures prior to 1960-61 are not provided.) 
Synthetic fuels from plants: 
1975-76-37; 1976-77-596; 1977-78-781; 1978-79-765. 
Uranium mining and primary beneficiation: 
1973- 74-40; 1974-75-46; 1975-76-57; 1976-77-81; 1977- 78-145; 1978-79-228. 
Coal transport by pipeline: 
1974- 75-30; 1975-76-34; 1976-77-13; 1977-78-9; 1978- 79-158. 
Long term environmental impact: 
1960-61-51; 1961-62-52; 1962-63-53; 1963-64-54; 1964-65-55; 1965-66-56; 1966-67-59; 1967-68-61; 
1968-69-63; 1969-70-65; 1970-71-68; 1971-72-72; 1972-73-182; 1973-74-197; 1974-75-285; 1975-76-344; 1976-77-453; 1977-78-759; 1978-79-861. 
to (6) Staff figures in man-years are given in the table below under two categories, R for researchers (including Research Scientists and Experimental Officers) and T for Technicians. As with estimates of expenditure, estimates of manyears of effort on each program must be regarded as indicative only. Staff are not necessarily engaged in one program only and it is often necessary to apportion staff time between a number of programs. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Much of CSIRO 's research could be regarded as relevant to the scientific and technical needs of developing countries. A significant number of research programs, particularly in the agricultural area, contribute directly to the needs of these countries. For example: 
The Division of Forest Research Seed Section acts as a centre for the supply of seeds of Australian trees to developing nations and for the dissemination of information about these trees. 
The Division of Tropical Crops and Pastures is recognized internationally as a world genetic resource centre for forage species and some crop plants, and distributes seed samples, on an exchange basis, to a large number of developing countries. 
CSIRO provides training and information services to developing countries. 
It is not possible to quantify the contribution made by CSIRO to developing nations through these activities. Specific aid projects, in which the Organization is involved, are detailed below. 
and (3) The table shows the information requested by the honourable member in respect of specific aid projects in which CSIRO is involved. 
-The Minister for Science has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Budget allocations for the ARGC for 1 978-79 and the previous year are as follows: 
The level of expenditure on the scheme is, of course, subject to examination by the Parliament and reports of the Committee's work have been tabled in the Parliament. 
The ARGC was established in 1965 to provide support for first quality research in all disciplines except medical and dental science. Excellence of the project and the investigator are the sole criteria for gaining support. It is generally accepted that the strength of a country's research capability depends on the allocation of some resources to non-directed, non-mission-oriented research and that the direction of that research is best determined by experts in the fields concerned. 
The amount of a grant is based on the applicant's request and the Committee's assessment of the minimum that will enable the project to progress at a reasonable rate. The Committee evaluates proposals on the basis of assessments by appropriate experts in Australia and overseas. Other funds available to the applicant are taken into consideration. 
Grants are made for studies in the social sciences including demographic studies such as Professor Aitkin's. The relatively high cost of his study arises from the need for an extensive survey. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes, methods for conserving energy in the Australian minerals industry are the subject of research at the CSIRO Minerals Research Laboratories and cover aspects of efficiency in mining operations, mineral beneficiation and process metallurgy. 
(a) The industries co-operating with CSIRO are the bauxite-aluminium industry, the iron-ore and steel industry and the producers and processors of sulphide ores (nickel, copper, lead and zinc). Increased efficiency of energy usage, together with economic, environmental and human factors, are all aspects of the Organisation's research programs. The relevant activities include relatively short-term in-plant and laboratory studies wherein energy economies can be identified and implemented quickly, as well as long term research. 
A project aimed at conserving energy in the aluminium industry involves the further development of a chlorination process for the production of aluminium from bauxite which could lead to 20-30 per cent savings in electrical energy. 
Flash smelting is being developed for use with nickel and copper sulphide flotation concentrates, and, in the case of copper, the energy required is only 40 per cent of that required by the conventional reverberatory furnace. 
A low energy process is also being developed which will produce an up-graded nickel oxide from nickel matte, while laboratory scale tests on a new phase separation process for the refining of lead is showing up to 70 per cent reduction in the energy consumed in conventional processes. A pilot plant is presently being developed for the refining of lead by this process while similar laboratory work has commenced to study the refining of zinc. 
In the iron-ore industry several projects are underway aimed at achieving improved efficiency of beneficiation, pelletising and metallising processes. Energy saving aspects of this work are directed towards reducing power consumption during grinding, and fuel consumption (possible 20 per cent savings are indicated) during the induration stage of pelletising. 
In mineral dressing processes such as flotation separation, energy saving is one aspect of the studies being undertaken in collaboration with several firms aimed at achieving improved performance of the processes. No quantitative figure for the energy savings resulting from such work is available 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions. 
Yes. 
The Prime Minister's statement of 1 1 May 1978 concerned a number of Government decisions on the structure and operation of CSIRO. These decisions were based on the recommendations of the Independent Inquiry into CSIRO whose report was tabled in the House on 6 October 1 977. 
Reference to consumer interests in the Independent Inquiry Report was made in the context of consumer protection activities integrated into CSIRO research supportive of the manufacturing industry sector. In this sense CSIRO has a long history of research involvement. A considerable body of research is being continued in a number of Divisions on the provision of improved quality goods and services in the market place. 
The CSIRO Divisions of Building Research and Food Research are prime examples. Their accumulated knowledge and experience arising from many research programs is made available to consumers and industry, and is further augmented by the results of continuing research. Relevant studies in the Division of Building Research relate to building materials, design and protection; and in the Division of Food Research to the microbiological safety of foods, food quality and improved handling and processing of foods. These Divisions receive between them as many as 50,000 enquiries annually from consumers and industry. 
3 ) CSIRO has been involved almost continuously from its inception in the scientific aspects of safety, pollution and performance standards over a wide range of topics and it is the Organisation's intention to be so involved in the future. CSIRO does not set standards, but assists the appropriate authorities by developing improved measuring techniques and providing scientific information related to standards. The following examples of its involvement are indicative, not exhaustive. 
Safety 
The CSIRO National Measurement Laboratory (NML) is working on the development of equipment for assisting in the safe use of microwave ovens and other microwave heating devices. It recently collaborated with the NSW Department of Mines on a study on means of reducing coal mine fire hazards associated with miners' cap lamps and other lights. NML has, for many years, been associated with NSW and Victorian road authorities in studying street and pedestrian crossing lighting and is involved in Standard Association Committees on such topics as road traffic signals, small craft distress flares, industrial eye protection and safety helmets. 
The Division of Applied Geomechanics has research programs related to maintaining safety in both metalliferous and coal mines. 
Work at the Division of Protein Chemistry led to the recently established standards for flammability of nightwear. That Division, the Division of Textile Physics and the Division of Building Research are all contributing to the development of Australian and international standards relating to the fire hazards of textiles. 
Pollution 
NML and the Division of Process Technology are investigating the chemical reactions in photo-chemical smog. The Division of Cloud Physics is studying the effects of pollutants in the atmosphere and the Division of Fisheries and Oceanography is examining the detection of pollutants in the sea. The Division of Textile Industry is concerned with standards of noise in textile mills. 
Performance standards 
NML has given continuing assistance to traffic authorities in the application of retroreflectors to vehicles, road signs and road lines and has assessed techniques for measuring vehicle speeds for some police forces. 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920, 1 present the annual reports of War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 2903  (Hansard,  24 November 1978 page 3577). 
and (4) None. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A total of 7,687 persons, comprising 3,347 veterans and 4,340 wives, widows and dependants, in the Electoral Division of Bowman receive pensions and allowances from the Department of Veterans' Affairs. The number of persons in receipt of each type of pension paid is given in the table below. It should be noted that many of these pensioners are in receipt of more than one type of pension or allowance. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3 156). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms part of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the 
Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
Repatriation disability pensions, associated allowances and fringe benefits are not subject to taxation. Fringe benefits include the provision of free medical treatment to pensioners in receipt of the 100 per cent General Rate pension and above, 1914-18 War veterans and former prisoners of war. In addition, disability pensioners may be entitled to service pensions with only SO per cent of pension being considered for income-test purposes. 
Section 52 of the Repatriation Act 1920 provides that a pension shall be absolutely inalienable. 
Payment of Repatriation Pensions to British and Allied Ex-servicemen  (Question No. 2966) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms part of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. The basis of the Australian Repatriation System is to compensate veterans and their eligible dependants for incapacity or death attributable to the veteran's service in the Australian armed forces. Successive Australian Governments have adhered to the general principle that each nation should bear the responsibility for providing compensatory benefits for former members of its Forces. For this reason, veterans of the Forces of other countries are not eligible for Repatriation and associated benefits. However, in 1975 eligibility for service pension was extended to former members of the Forces of other British Commonwealth countries resident in Australia who had service in wars or war-like conflicts in which Australian Forces were engaged. The Government has undertaken to give consideration to extending this benefit to Allied veterans on a similar basis. 
It is difficult to establish reliable estimates of the numbers of British Commonwealth and Allied veterans in Australia and the possible compensation and treatment requirements of any such veterans. Therefore, it is not practicable to provide an estimate of the cost of either extending Australian Repatriation and associated rights to British and allied ex-servicemen or to extend service pension benefits to allied veterans. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Apprentices are employed by the Department of Veterans' Affairs but not by any other bodies or statutory authorities under my control. 
(a) 1973-5; 1974-3; 1975-4; 1976-2; 1977-3; 1978-3. 
and (c) See ( 1 ) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms pan of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
The Repatriation Commission, Appeals Tribunals and Repatriation Boards currently provide reasons for decisions where claims for entitlement to Repatriation benefits are not successful. Arrangements are in hand to ensure that, in future, reasons will continue to be given in these cases as well as on matters of actual pension assessment. 
The current direct costs of giving reasons for decisions in entitlement matters are estimated to be $200,000 a year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms part of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
The cost of increasing the Intermediate Rate Pension to 75 per cent of the current minimum wage would be $ 1.97m for a full year. To maintain the Intermediate Rate Pension at that level would cost $0.07m for a full year for each $ 1 increase in the minimum wage. 
The current minimum wage is $120.10 per week and the current Intermediate Rate Pension is $70. 1 5 per week. 
The Intermediate Rate Pension is therefore 58 per cent of the minimum wage. The Intermediate Rate Pension is not taxable, however, and Intermediate Rate pensioners are also entitled to full free medical and hospital treatment and many other benefits. 
Intermediate Rate Pensions are paid to persons who because of their service-related incapacity, are capable of working only part-time or intermittently. An Intermediate Rate pensioner could therefore be expected to earn about 25 per cent of the minimum wage giving him an average weekly income of $ 100. 1 7 which is not subject to tax. The minimum wage earner earns $ 103.00 per week, after tax. Effectively, therefore, the Intermediate Rate pension could be only $2.83 per week below 75 per cent of the minimum wage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms part of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
The cost of increasing the General Rate Pension to 50 per cent of the current minimum wage would be $79.3m for a full year. The cost of maintaining the General Rate Pension at that level would be $ 1 .84m for a full year for each $ 1 increase in the minimum wage. 
In answering these questions it should be borne in mind that the Government decision of 1977 to index the General Rate and other key pensions has resulted in an automatic increase in the level of the General Rate pensions under legislation for the first time in the half century history of this particular rate. There has been a substantial growth in the cost of providing benefits for veterans. The Department of Veterans' Affairs will spend $ 1,200m this year in the provision of services and benefits to veterans and their dependants, an increase of approximately 8 per cent over last year. Comparable expenditure in 1950 was $126m, 1960 $2 72m, and 1970 $40 lm. In the light of these figures, the Government feels it is honouring its promise to take care of those who have suffered disabilities which are related to their service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms pan of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
The Special Rate Disability Pension should be viewed as pan only of the Repatriation benefits available to a veteran so entitled. Other benefits include free medical and hospital treatment (including optical and dental services), and in many cases allowances to cover recreational transport, provision of attendants, clothing allowance and tax free motor cars. A Special Rate pensioner may also be eligible to receive an income-tested Service Pension. 
A single Special Rate pensioner in receipt also of a Service Pension may receive a total pension of $ 1 39.63 per week. Because his eligibility is free of tax his income is equivalent to a taxable income of $176.38. A Special Rate pensioner with limited income can receive an amount which is effectively $56.28 per week more than the current minimum wage of $120.10. 
The cost of increasing the Special Rate Pension to the level of the current minimum wage would be $ 14.91m for a full year. To maintain the Special Rate Pension at the level of the minimum wage would cost $0.82m for a full year for each $ 1 increase in the minimum wage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms part of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
The philosophy of dependants' allowances had its origins in the First War situation when the families of serving personnel received allotments to ensure that the wives and children left at home received financial support. Dependants' allowance has not been increased for some time because successive Governments have concentrated available finance on maximising benefits to the veterans themselves or the dependants of deceased veterans. In this way, the family as a unit receives the benefit of increased pensions and allowances and the primary purpose of Repatriation pensions as compensation for disabilities related to service is achieved. 
The highest relativity of the dependant's allowance to the 100 per cent General Rate Pension was SO per cent for wives and 25 per cent for children. 
The cost of increasing the dependant's allowance to this relativity with the current 100 per cent would be $74.69m for a full year. To maintain the dependant's allowance at this relativity would cost $2.44m for a full year for each $1 per week increase in the 100 per cent General Rate pension. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms part of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
It is not possible to estimate the cost to Commonwealth, State and Local Governments, of indexing eligibility for fringe benefits. 
Expenditure by the Department of Veterans' Affairs would increase by approximately $0.89m per year if the allowed income were increased by 5 per cent and $ 1.59m per year if the allowed income were increased by 10 per cent. 
Additional costs to the Commonwealth would arise due to an estimated 740 wives of veteran service pensioners becoming eligible for Pensioner Health Benefits through the Department of Health if the allowed income were increased by 5 per cent. This number would rise to an estimated 1,200 if the allowed income were increased by 10 per cent. 
In addition to these costs to the Commonwealth there would also be certain additional costs to State and some Local Governments because of increased numbers eligible for transport concessions, rate rebates and similar benefits granted by those Governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific request on this matter has been received but I am aware that it forms pan of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
Disability pensions paid by the Department of Veterans' Affairs are not subject to an income test. 
The cost of abolition of the income test on all current Service Pensions paid by the Department of Veterans' Affairs would be $48.8m in a full year. 
It is not possible to provide an accurate estimate in respect of future claims because of unknowns in terms of numbers and income levels. I refer to my answer to pan 2 of Question 2972 in which it is indicated that to remove the income test five years earlier would cost in excess of $50m per annum. This proposal would cost considerably in excess of that amount. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms pan of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
The Department of Veterans' Affairs currently makes over 500,000 pension payments under two arrangements. A cheque may be posted, in which case payment is made fortnightly in advance. The alternative is to have the pension paid directly into a savings or trading bank account, in which case payment is made 12 weeks in arrears. 
The proposal to pay pensions into bank accounts fortnightly has been considered on a number of occasions. It would involve considerable administrative re-arrangement and the additional cost would be over $500,000 per annum, being the fee that would have to be paid by the Department of Veterans' Affairs to a bank in respect of each deposit to a savings account. No fee is payable under the current 12- weekly system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms pan of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
It is not possible to estimate the cost of such a proposal. There is no way of assessing the number of veterans suffering from these conditions nor the degree of any impairment and consequent pension that would be payable. 
In 1 973 the policy was introduced to extend free treatment for cancer to veterans who served in a theatre of war. This policy was extended in 1 974 to cover all veterans suffering from cancer. Currently there are an estimated 2, 1 SO veterans eligible for treatment solely under this provision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms pan of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
Under the present financial operating arrangements a substantial proportion of the funds available for lending under the Defence Service Homes Scheme is derived from the repayment, in pan or in full, of loans previously granted. If borrowers were permitted to transfer their outstanding loans to another home, instead of repaying the liability to the Corporation when the first property is sold, there would be a significant reduction in the moneys available for relending. It is not possible to estimate accurately the number of persons who might take advantage of such a proposal but an indication of the extent of the additional funds required to be appropriated may be gauged from the fact that in 1977-78 approximately $42m was received from borrowers who fully discharged their liability. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Defence Service Homes loans have been made available for the purchase of flats, home units and town houses in all States since 1968. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms pan of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
The Service Pension is intended to compensate for the indefinable and intangible effects of war service, it is payable under similar conditions to the Social Security Age Pension but is available five years earlier, at age 60 for a male and at age 55 for a female veteran. 
The estimated annual cost of eliminating the Income Test on service pensioners at the age of 65 is 511. 19m for existing service pensioners. 
The additional cost in relation to new service pensioners who would then become eligible is difficult to estimate but would be in excess of $50m per annum if all those becoming eligible took up the Service Pension. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No specific request has been received on this matter but I am aware that it forms part of the Australian Veterans and Defence Services Council's Repatriation and Resettlement policy. This policy is considered by the Government, along with the views of all major ex-service organisations, during the Budget deliberations each year. 
There were approximately 60,000 members of the wartime Women's Services who did not qualify for Defence Service Homes benefits. It is not practicable to estimate with confidence the cost of offering loans to women in that category, but it is pointed out that $15m would be required, at the current level of the maximum loan, to "satisfy each 1,000 applicants. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. In 1978-79 principal repayment receipts will be supplemented by a budget appropriation of $ 10m in order to meet the approved lending program of $78. 8m. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is not possible to identify asbestos induced diseases, other than asbestosis, from Departmental records. Departmental records indicate that 13 veterans have been affected by asbestosis; seven are alive and six have died. 
In three cases asbestosis has been found to be due to war service. One of these veterans is still alive. The cost of Repatriation pensions (including war /defence widows' pensions), in respect of these three cases, is approximately $9,500 per year. The estimated cost of medical treatment provided in respect of these cases is $ 1 ,700 per year. 
Of the three veterans whose asbestosis was attributed to service, two are former Naval personnel. None of the other veterans who were identified as asbestosis sufferers :re former Naval personnel. 
I am conscious of the lateness of the hour. I want to make some remarks but I will not make them at any length. A couple of questions were raised which I should try to answer briefly. A question was asked by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  I state in reply to him that we envisage that the payments to the Australian Capital Territory egg producers will be in line with the payments made to New South Wales producers as egg payments in the Australian Capital Territory are essentially based on the New South Wales price structure. I will refer the other questions which the honourable member has raised to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and they will be answered. The honourable member for Fraser also asked a question about the use of the levy money by the State egg boards for their own purposes. This will not happen as any money not used for equalisation purposes will be returned direct to producers on a per hen basis. Some questions were raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  which I would have liked to comment on. However, I do not want to truncate the adjournment debate unnecessarily. So we will arrange for an answer to be supplied to the honourable member as quickly as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's proposals for the reform of the repatriation appeal system. Honourable members will remember that, early in 1977, the then Minister for Veterans' Affairs,  Senator the  Honourable Peter Durack, announced that the Government had decided to transfer the functions of the existing repatriation appeal tribunals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Subsequent detailed examination revealed substantial practical problems in giving effect to this decision. The Government has therefore decided to establish, with effect from 1 July 1979, a separate and independent Repatriation Review Tribunal which will combine the functions of the present war pensions entitlement appeal tribunals and the assessment appeal tribunals. The concept of an independent tribunal, combining the functions of both of the current repatriation tribunals was proposed by  Mr Justice  Toose in his Independent Inquiry into the Repatriation System. 
The present repatriation appeals system has now been in operation for just under 50 years. It was established by the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act 1929, which came into operation on 1 June 1929. The first sitting of an appeal tribunal under that Act was held on 5 June 1929. It is interesting to note that the basic provisions inserted into the Repatriation Act by this 1929 amendment remain intact today, subject only to a few amendments. For example, the rights of unsuccessful appellants to seek reopening of their cases by presentation of further evidence and the right of appellants to have access to information in the records relating to their case were inserted in the 1929 Act. Like other basic provisions in the legislation, these remain in force today. I am sure that the clause dealing with the applicant's right to have access to information from his records must have seemed revolutionary in 1929. 
The last decade has seen major developments in the field of administrative law, leading to the passage through this Parliament of significant legislative enactments such as the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act. The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to reform the repatriation appeal tribunal system so that it accords with modern principles of administrative law. 
The proposed Repatriation Review Tribunal is modelled in many respects on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and will function in a somewhat similar manner. Its role will be to review decisions which are the subject of applications before it, rather than to rehear claims or applications as is done in the existing repatriation appeal system. 
Under the existing repatriation appeal system there are four Entitlement Appeal Tribunals and four Assessment Appeal Tribunals. Each of these Tribunals is a separate, independent, final authority, with nothing to ensure consistency as between tribunals in their decisions or in their interpretations of the law. The establishment of the proposed single Repatriation Review Tribunal will strengthen the administration of the appeal system and facillitate the development of just and consistent decision-making. 
One of the deficiencies of the present system is the absence of a specific right for parties to obtain access to a court of law to seek clarification of issues of law. The Bill provides for a right of access to the Federal Court of Australia on questions of law. The Tribunal may, of its own motion, or at the request of an applicant or the Repatriation Commission, refer a question of law arising in proceedings before it to the Federal Court. Additionally, there will be a right of appeal to the Federal Court of Australia on a question of law after a case has been decided by the Tribunal. This right may be exercised by either the applicant or the Repatriation Commission. 
Provision is also made to assist financially applicants who may be involved in a proceeding before the Federal Court. Where the  President  of the Tribunal, of his own volition or on the application of one of the parties, refers a question of law to the Federal Court of Australia, the costs of the applicant will be met by the Commonwealth. If the Repatriation Commission appeals to the Federal Court on a question of law, the applicant's costs will also be met by the Commonwealth. While the Bill provides a discretion in the Federal Court of Australia as to costs where an unsuccessful applicant before the Tribunal pursues an appeal to the Federal Court on a question of law, provision is made for an applicant to apply to the Attorney-General for assistance. 
In addition to providing a right of access to the Federal Court of" Australia on questions of law, the Bill also contains a special provision which will enable certain matters before the Repatriation Review Tribunal involving issues of important principle of general application under the Repatriation Act to be referred to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. This recognises the central nature of that Tribunal within the Commonwealth's sphere of administrative law. 
While incorporating these present day principles for the review of administrative decisions, the Bill seeks to retain the best elements of the existing system- in particular those elements which confer upon applicants special rights and privileges. For example, the Bill retains the concept embodied in the existing appeal system that an unsuccessful applicant who subsequently collects further evidence which was not placed before the Tribunal at an earlier hearing may have his case reopened by submitting such further evidence. Similarly, the right of the Repatriation Commission to reopen a case decided unfavourably to an applicant is retained. 
On the other hand, the Bill limits the powers of the Repatriation Commission in reviewing cases under section 3 1 of the principal Act. It spells out legislatively the limitations on the Commission's powers which have developed as a result of interpretations given, over the years, on the existing provisions of the Act. For example, as a result of these amendments, the Commission will be unable to review under section 31 an entitlement which has arisen as a result of a successful application by a person to the Tribunal. The fact that these limitations will now be spelled out in the legislation rather than depend upon interpretation is a major improvement in the legislation. 
For the benefit of honourable members, I have distributed an explanatory memorandum on the provisions of the Bill. Honourable members will note in the schedule to that memorandum a comparative list of the existing provisions and the equivalent provisions which are incorporated in the Bill. 
I turn now,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the more important provisions of this Bill. The Bill provides for the repeal, with effect from 1 July 1979, of Divisions 2 to 4 inclusive of Part III of the principal Act which make provision for the present tribunals and deal with appeals to those tribunals. Clause 26 inserts in the Act a new Part IIIA dealing with the Repatriation Review Tribunal and proceedings before it, a new Part IIIB dealing with references to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and a new Part IIIC dealing with references and appeals to the Federal Court of Australia. 
The right to apply to the new Tribunal for review of a decision is set out in the proposed section 107 VC in respect of entitlement matters, the proposed section 107VD in respect of assessment matters and the proposed section 107VE in respect of a refusal to grant a service pension on the grounds of permanent unemployability. These provisions mirror the present sub-sections 64 ( 1 ), 67 ( 1 ) and 70 ( 1 ) of the Act. 
There will be no formalities in the method of applying for a review. The proposed section 107VF simply requires that an application shall be in writing; set out a statement of the reasons for the application; and be lodged with the Secretary, Department of Veterans' Affairs. The procedure will be the same as has been successfully operated for the last 50 years, in that the applicant will forward his application for review to the Department in the same way as he has lodged his original claim and his appeal to the Commission. He does not have to search out the Tribunal or a proper authority, such as a registrar, to lodge his application. The Secretary will be required, under the proposed section 107VF, to notify the  President  of the Tribunal of the lodgement of the application, and subsequently forward to the  President  all the appropriate documents and records. The provisions in the Bill relating to applications for review on entitlement matters are identical, in effect, to those contained in the present Act. 
Under the Bill, the procedure in an assessment hearing will now be the same as that which has been successful in the entitlement area. In the past, the appellant would appear before an Assessment Appeal Tribunal where his case would be reheard in terms of evidence produced, supplemented usually with an 'on the spot' medical examination by the medical members of the Tribunal. Under the legislation proposed in this Bill, the Repatriation Review Tribunal will be required to review the decision of the Board and either affirm that decision or set it aside. If it sets the decision aside, the Tribunal will substitute a decision it considers to be in accordance with the Act. 
The Bill provides for the Tribunal to consist of a  president,  a number of  deputy  presidents and a number of members. The  President  will be responsible for the efficient operation of the Tribunal. He will be empowered to give directions for the purpose of increasing the efficiency of the operations of the Tribunal and as to the arrangement of its business. He will be required to give directions from time to time as to the persons who are to constitute the Tribunal for the purpose of conducting reviews in pursuance of applications for reviews. In hearing an application for review of a decision, the Tribunal shall consist of the  President  or a  deputy president,  a Services member and one other man. When a matter before the Tribunal relates to an application for review of an assessment decision the third member will be a medical practitioner. Services members will be members who are appointed by the Governor-General from lists of names submitted by organisations representing returned soldiers. 
The procedures of the Tribunal will be informal, as they now are, and the  President  will be empowered to give directions as to procedures. In the absence of a particular direction, the presiding member in a particular proceeding may give direction as to the procedures to be followed. I draw the attention of honourable members, however, to the provisions of the proposed sub-section 107W(3) which requires the  President  or the presiding member in a particular case, when giving direction as to procedures, to have regard to the need for the proceedings before the Tribunal to be conducted with as little formality and technicality and with as much expedition as the requirements of the Repatriation Act and a proper consideration of the matters before the Tribunal permit. This is an important principle, as it spells out in the legislation the requirement that formal proceedings and technical concepts are to be avoided. 
The hearing of a proceeding will be in private, as are the hearings of the present Repatriation Appeal Tribunals. However, the Bill provides that a presiding member at a hearing may permit the hearing or a part of the hearing to take place in public if so requested by the applicant. This is an important departure from the current tribunal arrangements. 
The amendment of the principal Act to insert these new provisions in respect of the new Tribunal has necessitated a number of consequential amendments of the Repatriation Act and associated Acts. I have already referred to the amendment of section 3 1 of the principal Act to specify legislatively the limitations on the Repatriation Commission's power to review decisions. There are some other consequential amendments including amendments to section 47 of the principal Act which is, of course, an important provision specifying the principles upon which determining authorities under the Repatriation Act are to reach their decisions. The amendments which have been made to this section are only necessary in order to encompass the new Tribunal within their framework and require the new Tribunal to apply the same principles as are applied by the other determining authorities under the Act. The amendments do not in any way change the original concepts underlying section 47. 
Similarly, section 47A of the principal Act has been amended. This section has provided authority for the making of regulations requiring prescribed determining authorities to give reasons for their decisions. With the enactment of this legislation, all determining authorities under the Repatriation Act, repatriation boards, the Repatriation Commission and the Repatriation Review Tribunal will, from 1 July 1979, be required to give reasons for their decisions in all entitlement and assessment cases. 
The Act provides for the proposed new Part IIIA constituting the Tribunal to come into operation on the date of assent, while other amendments contained in this Bill will come into operation on 1 July 1979. This will enable appointments to be made to the new Tribunal and members to take up duty so that the Tribunal will be ready to commence operation on 1 July 1979. This will be the date from which applications for review of decisions by the Tribunal may be made. In the meantime, the present provisions in the principal Act relating to Entitlement Appeal Tribunals and Assessment Appeal Tribunals remain in operation. The existing Tribunals will continue hearing and disposing of appeals under the Act until 30 June 1979. 
The transitional provisions of the Bill provide that any appeal to the existing Tribunals lodged before 1 July 1979 which has not been disposed of by that date shall be treated as an application to the new Repatriation Review Tribunal for a review of a decision. The Tribunal will be empowered to hear and dispose of those applications without the need for the applicant himself to take any action to preserve his rights. 
The provisions of this Bill contain major reforms within an area of Commonwealth responsibility which directly affects many thousands of Australians. In the year 1977-78, 9,772 appeals were lodged with the present Repatriation Appeal Tribunals. I emphasise once again that the system is being reformed to take account of current-day practices and principles in the field of administrative law. But I also emphasise that the essential principles of the repatriation appeals system- those that have protected appellants and conferred upon them rights to ensure that every opportunity is given to them to achieve justice- are being retained. As I mentioned earlier, most of these were contained in the original Act of 1929 which introduced the present tribunal system, over four decades before those same principles became accepted generally by this Parliament. I pay tribute to the farsighted men of 1929 who developed such an appellate scheme. I wish also to pay tribute to the many men of calibre who over the years have held appointments to the existing Tribunals. Their contribution over 50 years speaks for itself. I am sure that those who are appointed to the new Repatriation Review Tribunal will similarly fill their roles with distinction and honour. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
in reply- When we talk of repatriation we often think of one section of the needs of ex-servicemen. As the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  knows, the Department of Veterans' Affairs has incorporated many things, not only pensions, disability allowances and hospitalisation, but also housing and a number of other matters. It appears to me that the term 'Veterans' Affairs' is more appropriate. I can assure the honourable member that I am not imitative or gimmicky. The honourable member will now be aware that many things have been brought together in the Department of Veterans' Affairs other than what we used to think of as purely repatriation matters. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the Government rejects the amendment. I am not saying that honourable members opposite who have spoken on this Bill are not sincere and concerned about the problems of veterans. That would be uncharitable and unkind. I know of their concern and I appreciate the importance of the matters that they have raised. I hope that I shall not be uncharitable in any of my remarks. However, I doubt the sincerity of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  It was moved in two parts, ostensibly because the honourable member was worried about the new medical evidence aspect. Also, the honourable member tied with it a matter that he knew had been debated in this House and that could not, and would not, be accepted by the Government. Therefore he must have known - 
-No, I will not accept them separately. I will tell the honourable member why I reject both. However, the fact that they were tied did make me suspect somewhat the motives of the mover. The honourable member for Prospect said that it is an involved Act. In that he is quite right. He suggested that we should examine and consolidate it, and made reference to the numbering. In that I agree wholeheartedly with him. I hope that at some stage it will be possible to consider that problem. The honourable member said also that there had not been enough consultation. Both the Toose report and the substance of the proposals in the Bill have been discussed very extensively with the veterans' organisations, especially the RSL and the Australian Veterans' Defence Services Council. As a matter of fact, some of the early drafts of the Bill reflected the suggestions of those bodies. Certainly, there has been quite detailed consultation with the associations on this Bill. 
The honourable member spoke, as people do sometimes, of departmental decisions in this field. He knows, and I believe the veterans' organisations also know and understand, that the Department does not make decisions on entitlement and assessment. Those decisions are made by independent statutory authorities which are appointed by the Governor-General. I refer to the Repatriation Boards, the Repatriation Commission on appeals, and the tribunals. The honourable member knows that when Labor was in government, and before and since, the independence of those statutory authorities was and has been preserved. No Minister can interfere with them or make a judgment over and above theirs. Their independence has been preserved at all times. As the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  has said, the Repatriation Review Tribunal is truly a review body. It reviews decisions of the Repatriation Boards or the Repatriation Commission, as the case may be. In contrast, the present Assessment Appeal Tribunal re-hears completely a given claim. It is not a true appellate body. 
One question asked was whether the tribunal could receive evidence that had not been before the original determining body. When that happens, the tribunal must refer it back to the commission; but under section 107VL, as proposed in the Bill, the tribunal may make an interim assessment on the papers that were before the original determining authority. I think that that is important. If the original decision were an incorrect one the appellant, therefore, should not suffer. The honourable member for Prospect seemed to be worried about the ex-servicemen on the tribunal. I could not quite understand him in that regard. As he knows, a representative on the tribunal is drawn from a panel that has been nominated by the veterans' organisations, which have a great deal of confidence in that system. 
The honourable member spoke also about legal representation before the tribunal. Informality has always been the aim, and I think that this has been appreciated by all. As a matter of fact,  Mr Justice  Toose made a suggestion about legal representation, but when we referred that to the veterans' organisations, especially the RSL and the Australian Veterans Defence Services Council, they were very much opposed to that type of representation. The informality of the tribunals has always been appreciated. Also, of course, that feature has made it a cheap and efficient procedure for appellants. It has prevented tribunals from becoming the right of the rich man only. 
The second part of the proposed amendment deals with twice-yearly indexation. Honourable members opposite ought to remember who implemented indexation, and how valuable it is. Before indexation was introduced to the payment of both social security and repatriation pensions, far too often the increase that was given to veterans or other pensioners depended on how much, if anything, the Treasurer had left to distribute. None of us will have forgotten the days when, at the end of the Budget, if the Treasurer had something left over he might give pensioners a five bob rise, or nothing at all. Indexation has been very valuable because at least the right now exists for pensioners and repatriation beneficiaries to receive the full consumer price index rise at least 12-monthly. There might be some disapplintment because, given the current economic climate, there cannot be a more regular adjustment, but indexation has been very valuable. The criticism of honourable members opposite ought to be tempered by the fact that the Government made a very forward step when it applied indexation to these pensions in the first place. 
Of course, there was some mention aboutmedical examinations. Reference was made to a telex or telegram from  Sir Mervyn  Brogan. In answering that question the Government has carefully considered the medical examination of appellants in assessment cases by medical members of the Tribunal. However, the Government feels that the proper function of the medical member is to help other members to understand and assess the value of the evidence before the Tribunal and to give opinions on matters of medical inference from proven facts. We have the particular position now under the Appeal Tribunal where medical officers examine and become witnesses as well as judges. Now, if the Repatriation Review Tribunal wants specialist or other medical opinion, the Act provides that it request the Secretary of the Department of Veterans ' Affairs to obtain that report and he is bound to do so. In that area also, has been incorporated the right for the Repatriation Review Tribunal to make an interim decision. I believe that that too, is something that is important to the appellant and to the veteran. 
The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  raised a number of questions. I wrote them down very quickly and I do not know whether I got all of them. But honourable members can be assured that if the questions they raised in the debate tonight are not answered in the debate I will give them an answer later. I will refer to them the answers they have requested during the course of the debate. The honourable member asked: 'Why not the Administrative Appeals Tribunal?'. The Government had a look at this matter and honourable members will remember that  Mr Justice  Toose in his report suggested this means. He asked what practical problems prevented us from taking this step. Of course one of the practical problems is that the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is not attuned to the summary disposal of large numbers of cases. In a year 275 appeals were lodged with the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. Now tip into that amount almost 10,000 appeals in the repatriation field and I think honourable members can see a very big practical difficulty. Here we have done something along the lines of, if not identical with, what was suggested in the Toose Report and that is to combine the two tribunals and have an independent repatriation review tribunal. I believe that this proposal has been fairly generally accepted by the veterans ' organisations. 
The question was asked why legal practitioners could not represent the appellant. I think I have given an answer to that. We cannot tell at the moment, of course, what will happen about the numbers of appeals and whether there will be a greater or lesser success rate. We will be watching that. However it should be a more streamlined and much more satisfactory system than the present one where, as I said in the second reading speech, the eight tribunals are independent bodies. There are no special guidelines. There is no way of assuring that the guidelines or principles being followed are identical. The mechanics of this particular Bill, as I have explained in the second reading speech, ought to go a long way towards removing some of those problems. They were a worry to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  They were a worry to me and I know they were a worry to the veterans' organisations. As a result of looking at the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Toose and from talking to the organisations we feel that this is a way that ought to provide a framework for a better system. That is the answer I would give to the honourable member who raised that particular question. The honourable member for Grayndler was talking about references to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and to the Federal Court. I would not think that there would be very many, but they are sources of reference that were never provided before. 
Well, on matters of a law, for instance, there has been no satisfactory recourse for anybody who feels that he has not received justice. I would not think that there would be a lot of appeals in these areas but they are two extra avenues of reference and appeal that were not available before. Surely there can be no criticism of extra references and appeals that were not previously available. If we were taking them away I could understand the criticism. 
I think the honourable member for Grayndler is inconsistent there. I think he was inconsistent too, when he talked about the whittling down of pensions. I did not bring the figures with me tonight but that is not borne out by the facts. Nor is it borne out by the provision that was made in the last Budget. There has been a real increase in that particular area. He criticised me because I had not consulted the service organisations. I have explained that there were consultations and these were extensive. He then hedged his bet. As I had done that he then started to criticise the service organisations because they had no right to enter into such a scheme. That is a five bob bet each way if ever I heard of one. I am not criticising the sincerity or the concern of the honourable member for Wills and of other honourable members for veterans. That is recognised and understood. I hope that they recognise that same concern in the Government and in the Department which has been very faithful in its servicing of the veterans' needs. 
A number of things were raised which were not quite apposite to this amendment or Bill. We are conscious of them such as the sufficiency of other allowances, the dependants' allowances and those sorts of things. Of course they concern us and they are things at which we are looking all the time. We are very conscious of the debt that Australia owes to its veterans. We are conscious, too, of the problems that they have sometimes in sustaining a case so long after the war. The member for Wills spoke about the absence of records. He said that because it was so long after the war they found difficulty in sustaining their case. Then quite illogically he came in and said that the first people into a system usually got the least out of it. I could not quite follow that logic. But the Act has not been altered. The things which honourable members think are important and which I think are important are still in the Act. For instance, the Act has not been altered in the fundamental principles and so the appeal will be granted unless resolved beyond reasonable doubt that it should not be. Those things which I think honourable members value in the Bill and which I valued in the Bill have been preserved. So the Act has not changed in those fundamental matters. We have done something along the lines suggested by Justice Toose. We feel that is a very appropriate streamlining. It is a fair and efficient way to get together in one tribunal, a Repatriation Review Tribunal, instead of having eight bodies as the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  said. I believe that the system is good. I believe it is worthy of a try and the veterans' organisations feel so too. I thank honourable members for their contribution to the debate. Naturally we cannot accept the amendment or part of the amendment. There are other questions which I have not answered specifically. I have paper everywhere. Members of the Opposition who have been Ministers know that it is very difficult to get papers together and answer every question. I undertake that the questions which have been raised in good faith will receive an answer. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains a consequential amendment to the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929 necessary to maintain arrangements for the appropriation of the proceeds of the wine grapes levy to the Australian Wine Board for the funding of its operations. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is complementary to the Wine Grapes Levy Bill 1979 and is to facilitate the collection of levy imposed under that Bill. Under the Bill levy collection procedures are formalised which follow closely those that have been developed for other primary industry levies. The Bill includes penalty provisions for non-payment of levy, recovery of amounts unpaid and power to call for returns. There is to be provision for self assessment of levy. Additionally, the Bill preserves existing provisions for levy to be paid in two equal instalments at six monthly intervals. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a machinery measure to repeal the Wine Grape Charges Act 1929 which is to be replaced by the Wine Grapes Levy Bill 1979 and the Wine Grapes Levy Collection Bill 1979. As explained in my second reading speech on the Wine Grapes Levy Bill, the repeal will be effective from 1 July 1979. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to ensure that levy is paid in respect of all grapes and grape juice used in the production of wine, brandy and spirit for fortifying wine. This was the intention of the Wine Grapes Charges Act 1929, now to be replaced by the provisions of this Bill. Because of developments in wine industry technology it has become apparent that the Act does not authorise levy collections in certain situations. In terms of the Wine Grapes Charges Act, levy is payable by the owner of the winery or distillery to which grapes are delivered 'for use in the manufacture of wine'. Of particular significance are new methods of storing single-strength grape juice at the establishment producing the juice pending a decision at some future stage whether to convert it to wine manufacture, or to sell the juice to another establishment which would use it for the manufacture of wine. Under the existing law levy is not payable on these transactions. 
To ensure that the original intentions of the Wine Grapes Charges Act are fully met, the Bill provides that levy is payable by the proprietor of the establishment concerned in respect of grapes and grape juice when used in the manufacture of wine, brandy and fortifying spirit. For the bulk of grapes received, the winemaking process starts immediately following crushing and so most of the levy would continue to be paid on the fresh grapes used. Levy on the fresh grape equivalent will be payable by a winery when grape juice is used for winemaking in those instances where it has been brought in from another establishment or has been stored prior to winemaking. The winery would not be liable in respect of grape juice sold for consumption as such. The proceeds of the levy form the income of the Australian Wine Board, which is responsible under the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929 for controlling export of wine, undertaking promotion in Australia and overseas and research into the quality of Australian wine and brandy. The maximum rate of levy imposed by the Wine Grapes Charges Act is $2.50 a tonne in the case of fresh grapes. This maximum is being retained under the provisions of the Bill. Additionally, for the purposes of calculating levy, provision is being made for conversion of dried grapes and grape juice to their fresh grape equivalents. The existing operative rate of levy at $2.40 a tonne for fresh grapes is also retained and provides the Board with an income of about $1.1 million a year. 
The Bill is presented following concern being expressed within the industry of the possible adverse and growing effect on the funds available to the Board if no payment of levy were made on grape juice brought into wineries and put to winemaking or of grape juice not used immediately for winemaking. The Bill is to come into operation on the date that royal assent is given, but with provision being made in section 5 for the levy to be imposed on prescribed goods used in the manufacture of wine on or after 1 January 1979. Under the terms of the Wine Grapes Charges (Repeal) Bill to be introduced, the Wine Grapes Charges Act is to continue in operation until 30 June 1979. Having both Acts operate for the first six months of 1979 is to facilitate the transition from the old levy system to the new one. There are, of course, provisions to obviate double-payment of levy on any grapes or juice. 
I should refer to recent representations from parliamentarians both here and in the other place advocating that grape juice should be brought within the jurisdiction of the Wine Board to enable it to promote the product. In this connection 1 mention that a working party of senior representatives of the industry- private and co-operative winemakers and grapegrowers- under the chairmanship of the Department of Primary Industry, is currently engaged in a review of the constitution and functions of the Board, the method of financing its operations and the range of products which might be covered by its charter. In the Government's view, it would be appropriate to await the outcome of that review and then to determine, after consultation with the industry, whether grape juice might be included in the Board's functions. I expect that legislation covering proposals for the Board's reconstitution will come forward in the Budget session. In summary, the Bill preserves the intention of the Wine Grapes Charges Act and meets the concern expressed by the industry generally that, as a result of changes in technology and in industry practices, action is needed to protect the funding of the Australian Wine Board. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this Bill is to amend the Wool Industry Act 1 972 so as to extend the statutory accounting provisions in respect of the floor price scheme for wool to include the 1979-80 season. When the floor price arrangement was introduced in September 1974, it was designed to operate for the 1974-75 season only. Accordingly, the financing and accounting provisions provided for in legislation at the time were restricted to operations in that season. 
These provisions consisted of two measures. First, the wool tax Acts were amended to impose a special 5 per cent levy on sales of wool by growers in 1974-75. The levy was intended to provide a reserve for meeting any losses that might arise out of the floor price arrangement. Secondly, the Wool Industry Act was amended to provide for the establishment of the Market Support Fund as a repository for the proceeds of the 5 per cent levy and also to lay down special accounting provisions for the reserve price operations. Since then the continuation of the floor price scheme has involved successive annual amendments to continue the arrangements described. 
Consequent upon the Government's decision to extend the scheme to include the 1979-80 season, it is now necessary similarly to extend the coverage of the accounting provisions in the Wool Industry Act as well as to continue the special 5 per cent levy on wool sales for another year. The first of these steps is the purpose of this Bill, and involves merely an alteration of a specified termination date so as to include in the existing arrangements wool purchased by the Australian Wool Corporation under the floor price scheme up to 30 June 1 980. The other legislative step required is amendment of the wool tax Acts to continue collection of the 5 per cent levy on wool sales during 1979-80. Bills to effect this amendment will be introduced immediately after the measure which is the subject of my speech. 
In moving to extend the floor price scheme and the associated accounting arrangements and the 5 per cent levy on wool sales, the Government is acting with the concurrence of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The rapid rise in wool prices we have witnessed in recent weeks and the concurrent reduction in the wool stocks held by the Australian Wool Corporation do not diminish the need to preserve the safeguard of a floor price mechanism. As in the past, the wool market could change very rapidly and in such circumstances a floor price is an effective barrier to over-reaction. It is also necessary to bear in mind that, notwithstanding the reduction in stocks held by the Wool Corporation, there remains a substantial volume of wool in the stockpile, which will have to be carried over into 1979-80. Whilst the actual level of the floor price for next season will not be determined and announced until the current season ends, the Government has decided already that the floor price for 1979-80 will not be less than the present level of 298 cents per kg clean for the market indicator, which represents the clip average price on a clean basis. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
These five Bills will amend the Wool Tax Acts (Nos. 1 to 5) 1964 so as to continue in force for another year the special levy of 5 per cent on the sale value of shorn wool which is collected in connection with the floor price scheme for wool. The levy was introduced at the inception of the scheme on 2 September 1974 to provide a fund for meeting any operating losses on the floor price scheme. Originally, both the scheme and the levy were to operate for one season only. Their operation was extended successively to each of the subsequent four seasons and the present statutory provisions for the payment of the levy expire on 30 June 1979. 
As already announced, it is now proposed that the floor price scheme for wool be extended further to operate during the 1979-80 season and that the levy of 5 per cent be continued similarly. 
If there is to be no interruption in the collection of the levy, the statutory provisions under which the levy is imposed must be amended before 30 June. Revenue from this levy is credited to the Market Support Fund established by the Australian Wool Corporation. For administrative convenience the special levy of 5 per cent is collected in conjunction with the 3 per cent levy that represents woolgrower contributions towards the financing of programs of wool research and promotion and the administration of the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. The present total levy of 8 per cent has been in force since August 1975. 
All the five wool tax Bills are similar in their text, which simply extends the operation of the special 5 per cent levy until 30 June 1980. The Acts which they amend are also similar but each covers a different wool marketing channel. The need for five separate Acts arises from a constitutional requirement that laws imposing taxes should deal with one subject of taxation only. Opportunity has been taken to include in the Bills some minor formal amendments to bring the wording of the wool tax Acts into line with modern drafting practice. I commend the Bills to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
British veterans in receipt of Australian Service Pensions are eligible to receive Pensioner Health Benefits on the same basis as Australian veterans. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No study has been undertaken or initiated by the Defence Service Homes Corporation. The view has been taken that the type of water system to be installed in a Defence Service Home is a matter of individual preference. 
and (3) See (1) above. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of the Government's response to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on its examination of the 1974-75 annual report of the Australian Housing Corporation. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Wine Grapes Levy Collection Bill, the Wine Grapes Charges (Repeal) Bill and the Wine Overseas Marketing Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that the House permits the subject matter of each of these Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
In closing the debate I thank honourable members for a constructive and interesting debate. Unfortunately, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  seemed intent- as is his wont- on making a partisan, political criticism and attacking the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  That did not add anything to the debate. Apart from that, the debate by honourable members from both sides of the House was constructive and thoughtful, although it did not follow narrowly the terms of the Bill. I found some contributions and observations interesting and helpful. One or two questions were asked. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  asked whether the aid was sufficient. All I can say is that the Bill covers all the proposals related to native forests that were submitted by Tasmania in 1977. Tasmania recently submitted further proposals which are being examined. 
There was talk of a national program. The Government has received from time to time recommendations from the Australian Forestry Council that the Commonwealth finance a program of native forest rehabilitation. Unfortunately, to date necessary Budget restraints have precluded the approval of the requests of the States; but, should the States again put forward proposals, these necessarily would have to be examined in the light of the budgetary situation at that time. A specific question concerning the repayment of interest schedules was asked by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  The information I have been given is that the first three Softwood Forestry Agreements Acts had an interest holiday for 10 years but the most recent Act has capitalised interest for 15 years. The Government has decided that projects which can be justified on economic grounds and can bear all interest charges should do so. The deferment of interest charges has been made to meet the particular cash flow problems of this particular project. Interest is payable on the outstanding balance of the loans. The honourable member asked a question on that point. If he looks at clause 7 of the Schedule to the Bill he will find that it answers the question he asked. I thank all speakers for their contributions to the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. My colleague,  Senator Durack,  informed the Minister for Defence that the Government was considering the Toose report recommendations and that the report recommended that the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances legislation be reviewed with a view to bringing conditions of eligibility and benefits as close as possible to those in Repatriation legislation. 
A decision has not been reached. 
-The Minister for Science and the Environment has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The table below provides the information sought in respect of CSIRO postdoctoral fellowships (i.e. awards offered following completion of the PhD degree or its equivalent), and CSIRO research studentships (i.e. awards supporting higher degree study), tenable at overseas universities. 
Although the honourable member's question referred to CSIRO awards tenable in overseas universities, he may also be interested in data related to the number of postdoctoral awards being taken up in non-university laboratories overseas. This information has been added to the end of the table. 
The expenditure indicated for each year relates to the total spent in respect of both new awards and existing awards carried over from previous years. Although postdoctoral awards are of only one year's duration, often the major expenditure of funds occurs in the year following offer of the award. Furthermore, research studentships are tenable for up to 4 years and this results in expenditure on research studentships occurring in years in which new research studentships were not offered. 
The honourable member may also care to note that the data included in the table relate only to the central CSIRO studentship vote. During the ten year period in question a small number of research studentships financed from Divisional funds have also been established to support research into subjects of very specific relevance to the research program of the Division concerned. During the period in question funds devoted to Divisional studentships comprised only 6 per cent of the total CSIRO expenditure on studentships/fellowships. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) The Independent Inquiry into the Repatriation System took over four years to complete and produced 303 recommendations and conclusions. This is an indication of the complexity of the Repatriation System. Since the tabling of the Report there have been many important changes in health and welfare benefits available to the Australian community. These changes must necessarily be taken into account in the consideration of the recommendations contained in the Report. The Government has ignored none of these recommendations. Indeed, when any aspect of the Repatriation System is under review it is the practice of the Government to take into account the relevant comments and recommendations in the Report. 
In summary, the present position regarding the Report is that the Government has accepted (fully or partially) 67 recommendations. It has not accepted 30 and has under consideration 161. The remaining 45 recommendations require no further action. 
Important decisions made as a result of consideration of the Report are- 
retention of a separate Repatriation System; 
b ) retention of the Repatriation Hospital system; 
creation of a new appeals system; 
restructuring of Repatriation Boards; 
rationalisation of the onus of proof/benefit of doubt provisions; 
f) development of impairment guides; 
replacement of sustenance allowance; 
h ) variation of the pulmonary tuberculosis provisions; 
retention of the Repatriation Commission role; 
administrative responsibility for the Defence Service Homes Scheme and the Office of the Australian War Graves transferred to the Department of Veterans' Affairs. 
There have been no significant additional costs involved in implementing the recommendations accepted by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Two parcels of surplus Defence Service Homes land have been sold. One, located at Kingston, Tasmania in the electorate of Franklin, was sold to a private purchaser. The other, at Hackham, South Australia in the electorate of Kingston, was sold to the South Australian Land Commission. It is the Government's intention to sell all of the surplus Defence Service Homes land. 
The locations of the remaining surplus land holdings are listed hereunder 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Repatriation Commission hopes to issue personal treatment entitlement cards to certain Repatriation beneficiaries by the end of 1979. With the introduction of entitlement cards, veterans and war widows entitled to the full range of Repatriation treatment benefits would normally be able to attend any local medical officer or local dental officer of their choice without reference to the Department of Veterans 'Affairs. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Wool Industry Amendment Bill 1979, and the Wool Tax Amendment Bills (Nos. 1 to 5) as they are associated measures. Of course, separate questions will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the two Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
There are just a couple of points of clarification that I wish to make. One point that needs to be made concerns the commencement time for the operation of the Wine Grapes Levy Bill. Clause 5 allows for the levy to be imposed on prescribed goods used in the manufacture of wine on or after 1 January 1979. The complementary Wine Grapes Charges (Repeal) Bill provides for repeal of the existing Wine Grapes Charges Act on 30 June 1979. In other words, both measures will have a concurrent operation for the first six months of 1979 to ensure a smooth transition from the old levy system to the new one. Provision has been made, of course, to ensure that double payment of the levy on any grapes or juice will not occur as a result. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr FitzPatrick)  said tonight that the Bills meet the concern of the industry which means that the industry supports them. Indeed, there was continuing dialogue with the industry when the Bills were being prepared and at all stages the Government received encouragement to develop the proposals to close the loopholes in a fair and equitable way. A point was raised about assistance to the industry. That will be considered when the Industries Assistance Commission reports are received in the near future. The information that I have is that the report on spirits and spirituous beverages, including brandy, should be received about the end of this month and the draft report on wine and grapes is due at the end of this month. The final report is due at the end of July. 
Perhaps it would be helpful if we recapitulated the main provisions of the bills because much of the debate, which was excellent, centred on the industry itself rather than the specific provisions in the Bills. The legislation does aim to correct the shortcomings of the present law which allows some grapes to escape liability for levy because of a lack of intention at the time of the crushing to use the resultant juice in the manufacture of wine. It does allow the extension of liability for the levy to include grape juice of all strengths ultimately used to produce wine, brandy or fortifying spirits irrespective of the intention at the time of crushing the grapes. It covers situations where grape juice is sold from one establishment to another or stored prior to being used for winemaking, but it ensures no liability in situations where grape juice is sold for consumption as such. The transitional operation of both the old and the new legislation until 30 June 1979 to facilitate the changeover process is also provided in the Bill and it provides for the closing of the loopholes contained in the present Act. That will enable the original intention of that Act to be fully met. It will ensure that all grapes and juice, finding their way into the wine and distillation industries, attract a levy. I thank speakers for their contribution to the debate. I think most of the points have been covered during the debate, in that reply, or in reply from other speakers. But if there are other questions I will refer them to the Minister. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The decision as to whether an inquest is to be held is not a matter for my Depanment but solely the concern of the State Minister for Justice who, after he has received representations by the claimant's solicitors or other advice, has the power to make an application to the Supreme Court for an order that an inquest be held pursuant to section 37 of the Coroners Act (NSW) 1960 (as amended). On such application by the Minister for Justice, the Supreme Court may order that an inquest be held, 
The delay in this matter was not occasioned by the actions of my Depanment, whose responsibility terminates as soon as the matter is reported to the police and to the Coroner. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am satisfied with the study carried out by  Dr Donovan  which was supported by a number of other medical experts whose opinions were incorporated in the final protocol of the study. 
See (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
5,425, comprising 2,374 veterans and 3,051 widows and dependants. 
3 May 1979. 
Department of Science and the Environment: Polls and Surveys  (Question No. 3767) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is accepted that after 34 years it is more difficult to establish that an ex-serviceman 's death or disability was war caused. However, amendments to section 47 of the Repatriation Act in 1977 and 1979 provided that Repatriation determining authorities, when considering claims and appeals, are not bound by technicalities, legal forms or rules of evidence. 
They are required to act according to substantial justice and to take into account any difficulty which may exist in establishing relevant particulars about a claim. Such difficulties include the lapse of time between service and the lodgment of the claim, the possibility that records may never have existed or may have been lost, that witnesses may no longer be available and that a veteran may not have reported a disability during service. The determining authorities are required to grant a claim or allow an appeal, unless they are satisfied beyond reasonable doubt, that there are insufficient grounds for doing so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) The information requested is given in the following table: 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Live-stock Slaughter (Export Inspection Charge) Collection Bill 1 979, the Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Bill 1979, the Grain (Export Inspection Charge) Collection Bill 1979 and the Wool Industry Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Acting Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the five Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
My attention has been drawn to that paper. It has been the subject of discussion within the Government and also with the Minister himself. The inquiry which is presently under way will be taking into account those factors covered in the report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information is not kept within the Department of Veterans' Affairs in the form requested by the honourable member. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 3 199. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have received and investigated such a complaint. The problem has been recognised and steps are being taken to improve the conditions under which patients are examined. I have written to the veteran who raised this matter and expressed regret at the loss of privacy he suffered under existing conditions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Two surveys have been carried out by the Department of Veterans' Affairs since 1975, one of which was a joint project with the Depanment of Social Security. Both surveys have been completed. 
(a) None. 
An Arm Amputee Survey was conducted jointly with the Department of Social Security in 1975. The purpose of the survey was to gather information not previously available about amputees to assist maintenance and development of the health and welfare services provided to these amputees. 
A Painful Amputation Stumps Survey was conducted in 1977. The purpose of the survey was to find the incidence of pain in Victorian Amputees. 
Apart from ordinary administrative costs the cost of the Arm Amputee Survey was approximately $ 1 ,000 and the cost of the Painful Amputation Stumps Survey was approximately $500. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The approximate cost to the Department of Veterans' Affairs would be $3. 54m per annum. There would be additional costs to other government departments due to the consequent extension of eligibility for other benefits to these pensioners. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The report referred to by the honourable member actually states that 'summaries of Departmental files relating to a particular claimant are not prepared until an appeal to an Appeal Tribunal has been lodged'. Summaries are prepared from Departmental files which are already in existence. There is no point in preparing a summary until an appeal has been lodged. 
If, after an adverse decision by the Repatriation Commission, an appellant to an Entitlement Appeal Tribunal decides to put forward further medical evidence and finds that there is insufficient time between his receipt of the summary of evidence provided by the Appeal Tribunal and the date of the hearing for him to obtain the further evidence, it is the normal practice for a Tribunal to grant an adjournment of 28 days to enable that f Further evidence to be obtained. 
As explained above this is not so. Nor is there a Departmental medical opinion as such, as the medical officers who write opinions for consideration by the determining authorities are required by section 48 of the Repatriation Act to express their own opinions. The medical officers who advise the Repatriation Commission when further evidence is referred to the Tribunal, are not the same medical officers who deal with the initial claims and each case is considered by the Commission and its medical advisors on its merits. 
There is no evidence that Departmental medical opinion tends to become more rigid or partisan than is consistent with section 48 of the Repatriation Act. I can assure the Honourable Member that the Repatriation Act itself states clearly the philosophy behind the handling of claims and this is well known to all members of Repatriation determining authorities including Entitlement Appeal Tribunals and the Repatriation Commission and its advisers. 
The question involves quite a lot of information. 

 Opposition members interjecting. 

Do they want an answer?  Mr Speaker,  there will be a full explanation when the legislation is brought in. To cover the questions the honourable member has asked, I think that they are mainly answered if he is told that these Service pensions will be applicable under the same types of conditions as are applicable to Commonwealth ex-servicemen; that is, regarding residential and other qualifications. They will be available to ex-servicemen who served as members of a formally raised force of an allied country- that would answer his question in regard to partisans and others- who served in a theatre of war, who at no time served with enemy forces, who have resided in Australia for ten years and who satisfy the various income tests. That broadly covers the question, but I will have to look at the fine details. I have no problem with the question, but there are a number of aspects in it. If they are not answered before the legislation is brought in, I will answer them when it is. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)I have received representations from Air Vice-Marshal W. E. Townsend, C.B., C.B.E., the Federal  President  of the Air Force Association, in his capacity as  President  of the Australian Branch of the Royal Air Forces Escaping Society. 
I understand that this matter was considered thoroughly in 1974 when it was decided to extend full free medical and hospital treatment for all conditions to former prisoners of war. It has been carefully considered on a number of occasions since then as a result of representations from Air Vice-Marshal Townsend and others. On each occasion, it has been decided not to extend eligibility for free medical treatment to this group. 
Any proposal to extend full free treatment benefits to exservice airmen who evaded or escaped capture in Europe would need to take into account the claims of many other veterans who spent some time in enemy controlled territory but evaded or escaped capture by the enemy. These include former members of the Forces engaged in commando-type operations in enemy controlled territory and large numbers who became separated for varying periods from their units while engaged in operations against the enemy. 
I regret that I can see no immediate prospect of an extension of treatment benefits to veterans who escaped or evaded capture in enemy or enemy occupied territory. 
Pursuant to section 50b of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918, 1 present an interim statement on operations under the defence service homes scheme 1 978-79. 
-Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1 920, 1 present an interim statement on the activities of the Repatriation Commission for 1978-79. 
-Questions have been asked about staffing at Greenslopes Repatriation General Hospital. Apparently on Friday a special committee went to look into this matter. It was led by the honourable member for Prospect and included a previous member of this House, whom I never knew to be interested in repatriation until then; the very optimistic Labor candidate for the seat of Moreton, which is the seat of my colleague, the Minister for Defence; and a member of the Hospital Employees Federation of Australia. No doubt resulting from that visit we will get an expert report. I hope that the committee took the opportunity to talk, as I do, to some of the veterans who use Greenslopes Hospital, and to hear the very high tributes from those people. 
It is very misleading to make the sort of comparisons that the honourable member has made. For instance, he is not taking into account variations in both treatment and staffing patterns. For instance, the Queensland hospital has a very much lower trainee content in staff than has either Concord Repatriation General Hospital or Heidelberg Repatriation General Hospital. Special units, which are more staff intensive, are a significant feature of both Heidelberg and Concord hospitals. If one discounts the trainee nurses, Greenslopes Hospital is not disadvantaged in relation to patient staffing ratios at Concord. Heidelberg has a higher proportion of inpatient days and a higher density of surgical cases. The comparison that the honourable member made does not take into account a number of those factors. He also raised a question about alleged inadequacies of relief ratios in repatriation hospitals raised by the HEFA. The Public Service Board examined those representations. It carried out an in-depth study of Heidelberg. It concluded that relief ratios in our repatriation general hospitals were appropriate and it advised the Federation of this on 26 October 1978. Of course, if there are problems about staff limitations at Greenslopes- none has been demonstrated to me- the cause could be the very high community patient intake at Greenslopes. Would the honourable member have us remedy that by reducing the community intake, which I think is working very well. It has advantaged the standards and the range of treatment in our repatriation general hospitals and this has been very much appreciated by the veteran community itself. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has two main purposes. Firstly, it proposes to give effect to those recommendations which were made by the House of Representatives Expenditure Committee which looked at the defence service homes scheme and which were accepted by the Government in November last and require amending legislation. These are the introduction of freedom of choice for beneficiaries in the selection of a house insurer and revision of the long title of the principal Act. Secondly, it provides for the removal from the Defence Service Homes Act of a number of restrictive lending conditions. Since the inception of the scheme in 1919, it has been compulsory for defence service homes to be insured and for the insurance to be effected under the defence service homes insurance scheme. It is proposed to change the legislative provisions so that persons who obtain loans under the scheme may, if they wish, insure their properties with another insurer. This proposal follows the Government's decision last year that the insurance scheme be updated to conform with current insurance practice. 
Honourable members will recall that last November, the Defence Service Homes Act was amended to authorise the Defence Service Homes Corporation to provide insurance cover under terms set out in a statement of conditions, thereby enabling changes to the terms and conditions to be made by administrative rather than legislative process. The statement and any variations to it are subject to the approval of the Minister and must be tabled in Parliament. However, the commencement of this provision was deferred so that the further changes now proposed in clause 9 of this Bill could be incorporated in the new arrangements. The proposal in clause 9 enabling beneficiaries under the Act to decide whether to insure their homes with the Corporation or with another insurer is, of course, subject to the Corporation retaining the normal rights of a mortgagee. It will be necessary for the home to be insured adequately with an insurer authorised under the Insurance Act 1973 and for the insurer to enter into an agreement of a kind that would protect the Corporation's interests notwithstanding any breach of policy conditions by the mortgagor. 
As the Act stands, an applicant for an advance cannot insure his home with the Corporation until it has acquired an interest in that home. To ensure that an eligible person is not disadvantaged during the waiting period for an advance, clause 9 authorises the Corporation, if the applicant so chooses, to insure his home during this period. Insurance cover taken out with the Corporation in these circumstances will be terminated on reasonable notice if it becomes evident that the loan will not be granted. I emphasise,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the opportunity to insure with the Corporation will be limited to eligible persons to whom it is proposed to make an advance or to whom an advance has been made. 
The provisions relating to the change in the long title of the Act are contained in clause 3. The existing long title is to be repealed and replaced by a new title which more accurately reflects the provisions and purposes of the Act. The proposed amendments to the Act to remove certain restrictive lending conditions are set out in clauses 5 and 6. Clause 5 amends section 2 1 to remove the statutory limitation on the loan to valuation ratio. Clause 6 repeals section 24 which imposes certain limitations on the discretion to make a loan. The Government is satisfied that these restrictions are not now necessary and believes, as in the case of insurance, that applicants should have the maximum freedom of choice in the selection of a home. The interests of the Corporation will be adequately protected by the amendment of section 25 proposed in clause 7 and by other provisions of the Act. 
The amendment to section 40a proposed in clause 10 is in keeping with the Audit Amendment Act 1 979 and provides for interest on the investment of moneys of the Defence Service Homes Insurance Trust Account to be credited directly to that Account. Under the current arrangements interest is paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund, and this requires a specific parliamentary appropriation for an equivalent amount to be paid to the Insurance Trust Account. The remaining provisions of the Bill cover minor machinery amendments of a technical and administrative nature. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for Administrative Services ' answer to Question No. 4299. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The maximum rates are currently (a) $4.05 per week and (b) $1.38 per week. 
The dependant's pension for wives was last increased in 1 964 and for children in 1 952. 
No. Dependants' allowances have not been increased for some time because successive Governments have preferred to concentrate available finance on maximising benefits to veterans themselves or the dependants of deceased veterans. In this way, the family as a unit receives the benefit of increased pensions and allowances and the primary purpose of Repatriation pensions as compensation for disabilities related to service is achieved. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1 920 I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission 1978-79. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for amendment of the Repatriation Act and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act to give effect to the Government's Budget decisions covering introduction of service pensions for allied veterans; twice-yearly indexation of the main repatriation pensions; increases in the contribution that service pensioners in benevolent homes must make towards meeting the cost of their care and accommodation; easing of access to pensioner health benefits by raising the maximum levels of income that a service pensioner may receive before becoming ineligible to receive such benefits; and increases in the levels of attendants allowance and orphans pension. 
In respect of veterans of allied countries, this Bill honours an election promise of the Government made in 1977. It will mean recognition in a material way of the contribution which allied veterans made in war against common enemies. From 7 February 1980 eligible veterans will be able to receive a service pension on a similar basis to that applying to British Commonwealth veterans. 
For the information of honourable members I would like to explain that the service pension is similar to the age pension granted under the Social Services Act. It is granted five years earlier than the age pension to a veteran who has served in a theatre of war, has reached the age of 60 years if a male, or 55 years if a female, or has become permanently unemployable. 
In relation to an allied veteran the specific requirements he will have to meet are that he served as a member of a formally raised force; served in a theatre of war; resided in Australia for at least 10 years; satisfies the income test applicable to Australian and British Commonwealth veterans; and reached 60 years of age if a male or 55 years if a female or has become permanently unemployable. 
For the purposes of the legislation, an allied country is one which was engaged with Australia in a war or war-like conflict against a common enemy and would include forces of governments-in-exile during the 1939-1945 War and includes members of the Free French Movement under General de Gaulle and comparable forces. 
Since the announcement of the extension of service pensions to allied veterans, there has been some speculation about who will be eligible. For the benefit of those who require clarification of this aspect, I would emphasise that service pensions will not be available to persons who served in irregular forces such as partisan groups. We all admire the excellent record and results achieved by such people but, it is almost impossible to establish whether individuals who claim to have been partisans or members of other irregular forces were actually members of those forces and fought against a common enemy. The policy adopted is no different from that applicable to Australians who may have been in like circumstances. 
To be considered to have served in a theatre of war, a person would need to have been exposed to danger from hostile forces by serving outside the country of his enlistment or to have actually been engaged against the enemy in his own country. A person who, at any time, served in the forces of a country that was at a particular time at war with Australia, or engaged in war-like operations against Australian forces, is precluded from receiving a service pension. For example, if an Italian fought against the allies in the early part of the 1939-1945 War and subsequently fought with the allies he would be ineligible to receive a pension. Again, a member of the French forces who fought with the allies in the early part of the War and subsequently fought with the Vichy French forces would also be excluded from receiving a service pension. To assist in the processing of claims, documentation associated with a claim will, of necessity, require translation into the English language. 
There has been some lack of understanding of the Government's intention as to what extension of the service pension to allied veterans involves. I take this opportunity to make clear that allied veterans will not, under repatriation legislation, be eligible for income tax concessions, a defence service homes loan, or repatriation medical treatment benefits. Allied veterans will be eligible to receive only an income-tested service pension and funeral benefits. The only other benefit which they may be able to receive would be a pensioner health benefits card, issued to age and service pensioners by the Department of Social Security and the Department of Veterans' Affairs respectively and which requires the veteran to satisfy a further income test. 
Any allied ex-serviceman who considers that he is entitled under the provisions of the legislation to receive a service pension should contact my Department to determine his eligibility. Each case, of course, will then be examined and decided in accordance with the legislation. I should mention that my officers have already done a great deal of research into matters related to theatre of war service and will be in a position to assist and verify claims in this respect. 
Turning to other aspects in the Bill, the main repatriation pensions will, in line with proposed changes to pensions paid under the Social Services Act, be increased automatically from the first pension payday in May and November of each year to take account of changes in the consumer price index. The pensions affected by this change are the special rate- totally and permanently incapacitated- pension, intermediate rate and general rate pensions as well as the war and defence widow 's pensions and service pensions. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Social Services Act is to be amended to bring the level of the contribution which pensioners make for their maintenance in benevolent institutions in line with the contribution which the Government has adopted in respect of nursing home type patients generally. In line with the changes proposed to the Social Services Act this Bill proposes that service pensioners receiving long-term care in benevolent homes will be required to make similar contributions to those made by age and invalid pensioners. 
Service pensioners in benevolent homes currently retain up to $ 18.75 a week from their pension including allowances for their own use. The contribution to be made by a service pensioner after the new arrangements are proclaimed, will be increased to $54.95 a week and this amount will approximately accord with the contribution of pensioners in non-government nursing homes. This will leave the pensioner with $7.95 a week. 
The Government is mindful of the burden placed on the wives of such pensioners and, therefore, the rate of pension payable to the wife of a service pensioner in a long-term nursing institution is to be increased to the standard rate of $57.90 a week from 1 November 1979. Any additional payment for children will be made to the wife while they are in her care, custody and control. The standard rate pension payable to a wife will continue in payment while the veteran continues to be cared for under long-term care arrangements. If a veteran is discharged from, or dies whilst in a benevolent home, the service pension will revert to the married rate, but in the majority of cases it will be to the widow's advantage to transfer to a social security pension. Of this she will, of course, be advised. A service pensioner who is currently a long-term patient will be protected and the level of his pension will not be reduced below the amount currently payable under section 95 of the Repatriation Act, provided he remains an in-patient, but if he is discharged and re-admitted, the new provisions will apply. 
The maximum levels of income which a service pensioner may earn before becoming ineligible to receive pensioner health benefits, repatriation medical treatment and other Commonwealth benefits, such as telephone rental concessions, are to be increased from 1 November1 979. In the case of a single pensioner the limit will be lifted from $1,716to $2,080 per annum and for a married pensioner from $1,495 to $1,768 per annum. A blinded veteran, or one suffering a spinal incapacity who requires an attendant, will have his attendant's allowance increased from $14.70 to $17.50 a week. In the case of a veteran who has been blinded and is afflicted with total loss of speech or total deafness the allowance is to be increased from $24.90 to $35 a week. Similar increases in attendant's allowance will be made for severely disabled amputees who require an attendant. 
The levels of orphans pension are also to be increased. The rate applicable for a child in the care of his mother, adoptive or step-parent, will rise by $2.05 to $12.50 a week. If both parents are deceased, or the child is not being maintained by a parent, adoptive parent or stepparent the rate will rise by $4.10 to $25 a week. Increases in attendant's allowance, orphan's pension and the prescribed maximum level of income set in respect of service pensioners are to come into effect from the first pension payday in November1 979. An opportunity has been taken to incorporate in the Bill some very minor machinery amendments desirable to facilitate administration of the Act. These are not of such significance as to warrant the attention of the House. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill sets down the procedural arrangements for the collection of a levy imposed on canned deciduous fruits produced in Australia under the provisions of the Canned Fruits Levy Bill 1 979. Under the Bill, one-half of the levy imposed during the first half of a season becomes due and payable on 15 July in that season; and the remainder of the levy for that period becomes due and payable on 15 January of the following year. At that time the levy for the second half of the season also becomes due and payable. There is provision for imposition of a penalty of 10 per cent per annum on any amount of levy which is overdue for payment. 
The Bill also has provisions for recovery of levies as debts due to the Commonwealth, for refund of levy where such levy is paid but not chargeable, and for authorised persons to have access to premises. For these latter purposes there are provisions for appointment of authorised persons, power to call for returns and for penalties where persons fail to furnish returns. Applications may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of decisions regarding remission of penalties or part of penalties. The Bill also provides for the making of regulations. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose a levy with certain exceptions on canned deciduous fruits produced in Australia on or after 1 January 1 980 to meet the charges and administrative expenses of the Australian Canned Fruits Corporation to be established under the Canned Fruits Marketing Bill 1979. The maximum rates of levy are set out in the Schedule to the Bill. These rates, expressed in metric terms, are equivalent to a rate of 15c per basic carton- two dozen 825 gram, 29 oz, cans- of canned fruit. The canned fruits industry agrees with the rate of levy proposed. The Bill provides that the actual rate of levy for each container size will be set from time to time by regulation after consideration of recommendations from the Australian Canned Fruits Corporation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second dme. 
The Bill introduces amendments to the Canned Fruit (Sales Promotion) Act 1959 that are consequential upon provisions contained in the Canned Fruits Marketing Bill 1979. The opportunity is also taken of providing for appropriate amendments to the administrative arrangements for the Canned Fruit Sales Promotion Committee to bring those provisions into line with standard provisions adopted for such statutory authorities in relation to financial, audit and reporting requirements. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The measures proposed in this Bill and the two complementary Bills, the Canned Fruits Levy Bill and the Canned Fruits Levy Collection Bill, are the culmination of arrangements agreed between the Commonwealth, the canned deciduous fruits industry and the State governments of New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and South Australia involving a statutory marketing scheme for the Australian production of canned apricots, peaches and pears. The arrangements embodied in this Bill and in complementary legislation to be introduced by the four States I have mentioned during their Budget sessions are in conformity with the unanimously expressed wishes of fruit canners and fruitgrowers. 
In essence the complementary legislation will enable the Australian Canned Fruits Corporation, which will be constituted under the provisions of the Commonwealth Bill, to be vested with ownership of the production of canned apricots, peaches and pears and manage the selling arrangements for the products both in Australia and overseas. The Corporation will replace the Australian Canned Fruits Board which was originally established in 1 926 and continued in existence under the provisions of the Canned Fruits Export Marketing Act 1963. The Complementary State legislation will enable the Corporation to assume ownership of production and to manage the marketing within the State of production. The Commonwealth Bill empowers the Corporation to manage the marketing of canned fruits in export and interstate markets and in the Territories. 
The Western Australian Government has declined to participate in these arrangements as the Manjimup Co-operative Cannery, the small and only cannery in that State, has reservations about the scheme, notwithstanding assurances given by industry leaders in eastern States that its position would be protected. Tasmania does not have a canned deciduous fruit industry. Moreover, some other fruit interests there oppose the scheme. The Tasmanian Government's position is yet to be determined. While I should like to see all States in the scheme, the non-participation by Western Australia and possibly Tasmania will not provide a barrier to its successful implementation. 
The canned fruits industry is an important horticultural industry, wholly located in decentralised areas. It provides the basic economic and social foundation of the population in the Goulburn Valley region of Victoria, and an important component of the economic base of the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area of New South Wales and the Riverland region of South Australia. The value of Australian production exceeds $70m annually. 
The industry has been experiencing serious difficulties for a number of years, resulting from a variety of factors, principally excess capacity, increasing costs and depressed international marketing conditions. The industry has suffered loss of sales in the United Kingdom and Europe, important traditional markets, through the effects of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Economic Community. Australia, however, must still rely on export markets to dispose of about 60 per cent to 70 per cent of annual production of canned deciduous fruit. 
The industry has taken various measures during this period to adjust production to available outlets, and it has been assisted by the Government by way of adjustment schemes, financial assistance and other action. Nevertheless, marketing problems have continued to plague the industry. Whilst in some years voluntary marketing arrangements have operated between canners to stabilise returns from domestic marketing, in other years, however, oversupply and price cutting have severely eroded returns to canners from the Australian market. Some canners have incurred substantial financial losses. Payments to growers have been reduced and delayed. Regional communities have suffered accordingly. The industry is now convinced that a statutory marketing scheme is necessary. As I have noted, the arrangements proposed have the support of both the growing and canning sectors of the industry in the principal producing States. 
I turn now to outline the principal features of this Bill and the scheme. The total effect of the Bill and the complementary State Bills will be to empower the Corporation to acquire and sell the total production of Australian canned apricots, peaches and pears, other than Western Australian production. These arrangements will operate for five seasons commencing 1 January 1980. Additionally the Bill empowers the Corporation to promote sales in Australia and overseas and to do such things as it thinks fit to improve the production, storage, transport and marketing of canned fruits. The Corporation will have the responsibility for determining prices and terms and conditions for sales in both Australian and export markets. Such sales would always be made through agents nominated by canners and approved by the Corporation. 
In practice, production guidelines will be established before the beginning of each season by the Corporation on the advice of an advisory committee to be created under the terms of the Bill. Selling arrangements will distinguish between equalisation pool and non-pool markets. The returns from sales to the Australian and certain export markets will be equalised, but there will be no equalisation of returns from other markets. The Corporation will determine the quantities, varieties and quotas to apply to equalisation pool markets. The Bill provides for specification of the countries which, together with Australia will form the equalisation market each season to be notified in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette. 
The industry- canners and growers- has unanimously agreed that initially the equalisation market will comprise Australia, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Scandinavia and Japan. In terms of the Bill, the matter of which countries are to form the equalisation market is one for determination by the Corporation in each season. In this connection, I note that there is some controversy among the canning groups about whether the countries forming the equalisation market should be changed during the lifetime of the scheme except by unanimous decision of the canners. The Government is confident that the Corporation on which the canners will be represented will act responsibly to resolve differences of views which may arise and that good sense will prevail in this and other critical areas. 
Quotas for the agreed equalisation market will be allocated by the Corporation to each canner to give a production entitlement for sales to such market for the ensuing season. Each canner 's production entitlement will initially be based on historical sales by canneries to countries within the equalisation market for the four years 1 974 to 1977 as a percentage of industry sales by variety and size, but subject to a number of transfers of production among canners. The production entitlement will be expressed as a percentage of fresh fruit required for the equalisation market calculated by applying the historical variety and size percentages to the historical sales quantities and using the traditional industry yield figures of basic cartons per tonne of fruit; namely, apricots, 70; peaches, 58; pears, 54; peaches and pears in two fruits, 50; and peaches and pears in fruit cocktail, 75. Shortfalls by any canner will be offered to other canners proportionately to their quotas with a strict timetable for shortfall advices to the Corporation. 
Canners will be free to produce in excess of pool quotas, but such excess production may be sold only to non-pool markets or to pool markets after all quota production has been sold. However, in regard to sales to Canada, it is envisaged that defined percentage shares will be set for each canner. Any stock carry-over at the end of each year will be taken into account in assessing pool quotas for the following season. Transfer of quotas may be arranged between canners with Corporation approval. Net proceeds of sales by the agents of the Corporation, representing gross sales proceeds less charges and commission, will be requited to the Corporation which will distribute cash surpluses after making repayments of bank advances. Returns from pool sales will be equalised by the Corporation at the end of each year and the Corporation will pay the equalised returns to canners. Canners will agree on the rates of commission which the Corporation should allow in appointing canners' representatives as selling agents, and also on the basis for sharing commission. 
As I mentioned earlier, the Corporation will not at any time itself undertake the marketing of canned fruits. As part of the overall arrangements made with the industry, the Corporation as owner of the canned fruits will always appoint agents nominated by canners to sell the fruit on its behalf, at prices and on terms and conditions of sale set by it. The Corporation will be empowered to borrow from the Reserve Bank under Commonwealth guarantee  to  finance purchases of canned fruits. The guarantee on Reserve Bank advances will be initially limited to 70 per cent of average estimated realisations. It is a major objective of the scheme that with better marketing arrangements and Reserve Bank funding payments by canners to growers for their fruit will show a considerable improvement, both in respect to earlier payments and in increased returns. The governments of the Commonwealth and the participating States share the expectation of the industry that this objective will be met. 
The Bill provides for the Corporation members to be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry and be representative of canners, growers and the Commonwealth, along with two members with special qualifications. One of the latter members is to be  chairman  of the Corporation and the other,  chairman  of the advisory committee. Advisory committee members representative of canners shall also be appointed by the Minister. The Bill provides also for the standard administrative, financial and reporting arrangements for the Corporation. The Corporation's administrative and promotional expenses will be financed by a statutory levy on canned apricot, peach and pear production with a maximum rate of levy equivalent to 15c per basic carton, as provided for in the Canned Fruits Levy Bill. It is highly desirable for the stability of the canned fruits industry that the proposed new marketing arrangements for canned fruits operate for the coming season and the Government therefore proposes that the legislation be passed in the current sittings. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A merchant seaman is eligible for a Defence Service Homes loan if he was employed between 3 September 1939 and 18 April 1946 in sea-going service on a ship engaged in trading between a port of an Australian State or Territory and any other port, or on a troop transport or hospital ship and was, during that employment, domiciled in a State or a Territory of Australia. Eligibility for Returned Services League membership or the Australian Service Medal are the responsibility of the Returned Services League and the Department of Defence, respectively. 
In 1973 the Repatriation Regulations were amended extending free medical and hospital treatment for all disabilities to former prisoners of war who were ' members of the Forces', as defined in the Repatriation Regulations. 
The reason for the exclusion of merchant mariners from certain Repatriation benefits is that, during wartime, they were following their usual occupation and served under different conditions, involving the payment of award wages and the 'War Risk Bonus' and different leave provisions, than serving 'members of the Forces'. Merchant mariners do not generally qualify as ' members of the Forces ' but they are entitled to pensions and medical treatment under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act for any disability resulting from enemy action, suspected enemy attack or in consequence of capture or detention by the enemy. 
Pursuant to section 83 of the Repatriation Act 1920 I present the annual reports of the four war pensions entitlement appeal tribunals 1 978-79. 
by leave- On behalf of the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  I move: 
I am worried about the people who may be discharged just for a day to go home for Christmas or whatever, as sometimes happens with elderly people in those institutions. I hope that some method will be found to get around that problem so that his going home for Christmas- being discharged in theory for one day- does not cost a person $1 1 a week for the rest of his life. I do not expect the Minister to make a specific statement in reply now. However, I hope that when the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) is considered later today we will be able to get some agreement on that point. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clauses, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
I will undertake to get advice on that matter and to discuss it with the Department because I do not know its background. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
in reply- I will only take a few minutes. Today, in effect, we are hearing the same old arguments that were trundled up in the debate on the second reading. Those arguments were answered effectively in that debate. It is a condition of eligibility under section 107 of the Social Services Act that the claimant for unemployment benefit must satisfy the DirectorGeneral that he is unemployed and that his unemployment is not due to his direct participation in a strike. Here is a glorious inconsistency of the Labor Party. In the interpretation of this provision successive governments have followed two basic principles. The first principle is that the Government cannot permit the unemployment benefit to, in effect, become strike pay. The second is that when we talk about the solidarity of unions, responsibility for sponsorship or support of a strike by a trade union must be accepted equally by all members of that union. Doubts were expressed about the validity of that principle. We are amending the Act to make that clear. 
It was put to the Committee that this Government had dreamed up something goulish and novel in this area. I want to take honourable members back to the McKenna-Chifley rules of 1947. Does a person who is a direct participant, in a strike get the unemployment benefit? The answer is no. Does a member of a participating union, although not a direct participant, as an individual, employed at the place of industrial action get the unemployment benefit? No. Does a member of a non-participating union which does not disown the strike get the unemployment benefit? No. I ask honourable members to listen to this: Can a member of a non-participating union not a direct participant, as an individual and not employed at the place of industrial action, get the unemployment benefit? No. 
-They were the ChifleyMcKenna rules of 1947. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  did ask a question. 
All the noise in the world cannot confuse those facts. The Labor Party has to live with them. The honourable member for Port Adelaide did ask how it is to be established whether an applicant is a member of a union or not. Information relevant to determining whether a person is disqualified from obtaining the unemployment benefit by reason of industrial action or by membership of a union, members of which are engaged in industrial action, will be sought initially from the claimant. If the information supplied by the claimant is insufficient to determine his eligibility for unemployment benefit, the Director-General has authority within the Act to seek further information from other sources, for example the claimant's employer or the Department of Industrial Relations, in order to be satisfied to the required extent under proposed new section 107(4). The information and degree of proof required in any particular case will vary with the circumstances of that case. It is not possible, of course, to lay down any harder or faster rule than that. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  did ask a question. He established a case about a lass. The answer to that is that if that girl had good and sufficient reason for leaving her employment there would be no penalty. There is no requirement to prove the matter beyond reasonable doubt. That is the position. She only has to satisfy the Director-General that there was a good and sufficient reason for her leaving. If she is dissatisfied with the decision she has a further right of appeal to an independent arbitrator. So, those are the same arguments which the Labor Party has trundled up before. The Labor Party's memory is mercifully short. If its members have forgotten, we have not forgotten. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member for Corio will resume his seat. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order ! The honourable member for Corio will remain silent. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I have warned the honourable member for Corio. I hope I do not have to do it again. 
Progress reported. 
I wish to make an explanation regarding some of the early clauses of the Bill. Certain matters were raised with regard to service pensions to allied veterans. For the convenience of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  I passed him some indicative work we had done on some papers. I mentioned to him that I might table this information but I will not do so at this stage. It is indicative only. I cannot guarantee that it is absolutely final. I thank the honourable member for Prospect for his co-operation in dealing with that matter. I seek leave to move together the two amendments to clause 1 1 circulated in my name. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
I deal now with clause 12 of the Bill, which is likely to affect many more people than those people in the benevolent homes. That clause relates to the extension of the application of provision of Division 5 of the Act to certain members of the forces of an allied country. In other words, it seeks to make allied exservicemen, other than Commonwealth exservicemen, eligible to receive the Service pension. Whilst the Opposition strongly supports the aim of the legislation- in fact, it forms part of our Federal policy- we would like to draw the attention of honourable members to some of the difficulties of interpretation. Under the short title Interpretation', the Bill provides the following definition of 'government-in-exile ':   in relation to a country, includes any person - 
That is, just one individual-  or group of persons, claiming to represent, or administer, the country or a part of the country or the people of the country; 
That seems to indicate quite clearly that it covers any what might now be called 'guerrilla forces'; for example, the Tito Government which existed in parts of Yugoslavia for part of the Second World War. The only point against that is that the term is 'government-in-exile '. In other words, Tito was in fact in Yugoslavia and was not outside it, but certainly, in my interpretation, all the rest of the definition would apply to his Government. I am informed now by officers of the Department of Veterans' Affairs that the term government-in-exile' will not include that type of government. I am not sure whether the Minister will reply to my question tonight and give me a clear assurance on that. 
The second point I raise is that the Bill emphasises that a reference to forces raised by a country shall be read as not including a reference to irregular forces'. The definition of 'irregular forces' is vague. I would think that during the Second World War the people within any occupied countries who were serving in guerrilla forces may or may not be considered to have been regular forces. I do not know whether the wearing of a uniform is important to being defined as a member of a regular force. Probably the people concerned did not wear uniforms because, after all, they were in occupied enemy territory and could not walk around in uniforms. Ignoring the uniform, I assume that most of them were in some type of regular force in the sense that they belonged to the French maquis or to the different kinds of resistance forces in Yugoslavia and other countries. I think there will be grave difficulties with interpretation in this section of the legislation. 
I hope that the Government will interpret it as liberally as possible and that as many of these people as possible will be included. Let us remember that all these people are entitled to is an age pension or what corresponds to an age or invalid pension because these people are no longer employable. They receive it five years earlier in the case of an invalid or age pension. The actual extra cost to the Government compared with giving them sickness benefits or other special benefits is minimal and really refers only to the fringe benefits. Otherwise no extra cost is involved, as I see it. I hope that the Government will interpret this provision liberally and give instructions to the departmental officers to do likewise. I think the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  in his second reading speech, made the point that a number of people in his Department have been working on this issue to try to come to some definition insofar as eligibility is concerned. I would be pleased if the Minister were to give an assurance at this stage that the people who served in the major groups that I have mentioned in Greece, France and Yugoslavia, and probably in other countries occupied by Germany during the Second World War, will be eligible for this benefit. 
I will respond briefly to some of the questions which were asked. First, the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  raised the question of Australian servicemen and servicewomen who volunteered to serve overseas but did not go overseas. They made that offer and they were prepared to go. He asked that we consider them in that context. That action would defeat the purpose of the Service pension. The Service pension was introduced in the first place to allow for and to compensate for the indefinable, often indiscernible, effects of war and action. We know that service in action does affect a man. It can destroy his capacity to enjoy life and that is not always discernible. The whole purpose of Service pensions is to compensate for such loss. If we were to do otherwise, we would be doing something altogether different from what the Service pension was meant to do. That, I think, is the short answer to that question. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  raised a question which has concerned me, my Department and the Repatriation Commission. I can only say to him that we have had a good look at all of the aspects of that case. It has to be looked at very carefully. It has some vexing complexities. I am concerned about that matter. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  did raise a matter which was not unrelated to what the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  said. We did say in the second reading speech that we recognised the bravery, the valour and the tremendous contribution of irregular and partisan forces. Nobody denies that at all. Unfortunately, if I heard the honourable member for Corio correctly, he said they should be ascertainable. The identification and the proof of those who served in those forces are the problem. This provision is not a denial of their right or of their valour in any way. We have looked at the very great difficulty of identification of those people. We must consider also that many people served in the Australian Forces in an irregular or similar capacity who because of the same problem presently are not entitled to the benefit. If we extend this area of qualification, in allowing the benefit to those people we may extend eligibility beyond what some Australian ex-servicemen would be entitled to. When I say 'ex-servicemen', I am talking of the same category of people. The problem is difficult, and our stand is not taken because of any lack of recognition of that situation or of those people. But I must say that there is a great difficulty in relation to identification. I thought that I made that point clear in the second reading speech. That was the whole rationale and reasoning. I do not want to gloss over these matters, but I think I covered some of them in the second reading speech. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  raised one other question to which I should like to respond briefly. He spoke of the patient in the benevolent home going out for Christmas or going out with a family. He said that that person put himself in queer street as far as the legislation is concerned. But so long as he remains an inmate of the home he is covered; and is not discharged. A patient transferred between benevolent homes is protected by the legislation. A person who is allowed out on leave from home and is not discharged will continue to receive those benefits. That is the short answer to that question. 
I hope that we will not have the types of complications of which he spoke. The question is whether a patient is discharged from the home. If he is not discharged and if he goes on leave or those other factors apply, of course he is not disqualified. I think that that brief responseunfortunately more brief than I would have liked- covers the question. I also hope that in relation to the matter of the service pension the indicative paper that I gave to the honourable member for Prospect shows the type of examination that we are undertaking and the degree of detail in examining all of these matters that have been raised. I have undertaken to keep him up to date on any adjustments that I might make to the thinking on that indicative paper. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 assume that this question refers to eligibility for the service pension. An Australian veteran may qualify for a service pension if he served in a theatre of war or in a special area in: the Boer War; World War I; World War II; the Korea/Malaya operations; or, the Vietnam conflict 
Members of regular allied armed forces who served during the 1939-45 War in Timor, Malaya, Indonesia, the Middle East, Papua New Guinea and other areas where Australian forces were involved will qualify for benefits. 
In addition, persons who served, subsequent to the 1939-45 War, in Malaya, in an operational area on or after 29 June 1950 until and including 31 August 1957 and in certain other Malaysian areas on special overseas service after 28 May 1963 may also be eligible. 
Persons who served in areas where Australian Forces were not directly involved, but who were supporting the allied cause will also be eligible provided that such service would extend eligibility to an Australian veteran who served in similar circumstances. 
Provided such persons continued to serve in formally raised allied armed forces, whether of the country of their original enlistment or otherwise, eligibility will be conceded. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For 1978-79 the estimated saving was $3.0m. However, it was announced in the Budget that eligibility for full free medical treatment would be restored to pensioners who had been in receipt of the 100 per cent General Rate disability pension for pulmonary tuberculosis prior to 2 November 1 978. As a consequence, the savings involved in 1 979-80 will be reduced to an estimated $ 1 .6m. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Existing arrangements for Repatriation pensions provide for two methods of payments, fortnightly in advance by cheque or twelve-weekly in arrears by direct deposit to a nominated account in a bank, building society or credit union. The facility of having pension paid to a bank account on a twelve-weekly basis has been available to Repatriation pensioners for many years. 
In view of arrangements currently under way to up-grade my Department's computer capability, consideration is being given to the possibility of paying pensions fortnightly to accounts in banks, building societies and credit unions. The introduction of such fortnightly payments would considerably increase costs as a result of bank charges for handling these transactions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn to this motion. It was not carried. 
The loss of earnings legislation was introduced in October 1978. This followed an extremely thorough examination of the purpose, justification and continued relevance of the previous Sustenance Allowance. As was explained at the time, the provisions applying to Sustenance Allowance had meant that it was payable even when the veteran did not lose earnings. This meant that some veterans received more money when they were sick than they did normally. 
The decision to replace Sustenance Allowance with a more comprehensive loss of earnings allowance meant a return to the original concept of Sustenance Allowance, i.e., payment when actual loss of earnings occurs. There is no justification for a re-introduction of Sustenance Allowance payments. 
Repatriation: Meal Vouchers for Out-patients (Question No. 4897) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is not proposed to reintroduce meal vouchers for out-patients as the arrangements for providing meals in Repatriation hospitals are comparable to those available in State hospitals. In some cases, meals are provided free for day-patients at Departmental expense as, for example, to a day-patient attending a hospital at the Department 's direction for the whole or major part of the day as part of a prescribed course of treatment 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Repatriation General Hospital Greenslopes has an establishment of 22 positions of Technical Officer (Medical Laboratory), Technical Assistants and Medical Laboratory Assistants. Normal relief is provided during periods of leave. 
No. In the year 1978-79 Greenslopes treated 16.4 per cent of inpatients in Repatriation hospitals. 
The information requested is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However, in 1978-79 Heidelberg treated 12,776 inpatients compared to 1 0,4 1 7 treated by Greenslopes. 
No. At 30 June 1979 Heidelberg had a staff of 1,510 and Greenslopes 1,025. 
No. At 30 June 1979 Heidelberg had 470 full time operational nursing staff and Greenslopes 361. At the same date Heidelberg had 1 13 pan time staff and Greenslopes 28. 
No. At all Repatriation Hospitals nursing hours per patient treated depends upon the nature and intensity of the treatment. A survey conducted by the Department several years ago suggested four hours per patient as a general guide, but it is not practicable to set a firm minimum requirement. 
and (6) See (4) above. 
No. At 30 June 1979 Heidelberg had 66 junior medical staff and Greenslopes 49. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Defence Service Homes Corporation on operations under the Defence Service Homes Act for the year ended 30 June 1 979. The final report cannot be presented until the form of the financial statements has been decided by the Minister for Finance and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements is available. Honourable members will recall that the interim report for 1977-78 was tabled on 21 November 1978. Notification of the approved form of the financial statements for the year and the report of the Auditor-General have been received. The final report is now being printed and I hope to be in a position to table the 1977-78 final report of the Corporation before the end of the sittings. 
Pursuant to section 90 of the Wool Industry Act 1972, 1 present the final annual report of the Australian Wool Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1979. An interim report for that year was tabled on 12 September 1979, with unaudited financial statements. The final report is similar in text but contains audited financial statements and the Auditor-General 's report. 
Pursuant to section 50B of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918I present the annual report of the Defence Service Homes Corporation 1977-78. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During the financial year 1978-79, identifiable direct costs associated with the review of TB pensioners were approximately $131,000. General administrative expenses such as salaries for staff indirectly involved in the review, light and power, telephones and other general administrative expenses which cannot readily be apportioned would be additional to this amount. 
No. The figure of $6,000 relates only to overtime associated with the review. 
Yes. A total of 1 1 additional staff at various classification levels were employed for different periods for the purpose of conducting the review. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's answer to Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  6 November 1 979, page 2657. ) 
-This is a question which has concerned not only me but also members of previous governments. The situation has been examined by various Ministers of various governments and it is constantly under examination. Of course, the rationale for the difference is that merchant seamen who had not signed a particular agreement were not regarded as members of the forces for a number of reasons. They received specific award rates of pay and a war bonus, and were free to choose on which vessels they would serve and for what period. They were covered by various provisions of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act and, in case of injury, by the Seamen's Compensation Act. That has been the difference between merchant seamen and members of the forces. It is a matter that we are constantly considering. We must remember that with repatriation benefits our first obligation is to the members of the forces, and that is an obligation that we have recognised. Requests are always being made for extension of Service pensions to other people, but they have always been related to war service. There is also pressure to change the nature of the war pension. This matter has concerned me, as it has concerned previous Ministers. It is one that we are looking at carefully, but I would not like to give an undertaking that at this stage anything can be done about the situation. 
That question also comes within the province of my colleague, the Minister for Home Affairs, who has the responsibility for the Australian War Memorial. I was not aware of those circumstances. I will discuss the matter with my colleague and ascertain the position. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I require the debate to be extended. There are just a couple of matters that I want to take up in the adjournment debate. For instance, I was interested in what the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  had to say about the televising and broadcasting of the adjournment debate. I will not respond in detail in that regard. That is not my prerogative or my right. But I make one suggestion as to why I think that over the years, in the wisdom of the Parliament, the adjournment debate has not been broadcast. I understand that the reason the adjournment debate is not usually broadcast is that it gives honourable members an opportunity to bring very personal cases to the attention of Ministers. Names and case histories which have a personal and private nature about them can be raised. It is my understanding that that is probably why the adjournment debate is not usually broadcast. 
I do not want to debate that particular matter any further. I just raise that as a point of view which I think is worth consideration. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  raised with me a case which we have discussed before. I take objection to his accusing me of making a moral judgment. I am not making a moral judgment. In fact, it was the honourable member for Corio who called the child illegitimate. That seems to be more of a moral judgment than I would make. I wish to respond in this way: The war widow's pension is to compensate a widow for the loss of support and companionship of a husband who died either at the war, as a result of war wounds, or was totally and permanently incapacitated. That has extended also to the dependants of the veteran for those same reasons. 
The case which the honourable member raised with me concerned a war widow. Of course, she receives a war widows pension, and so her dependants- who were the children of the veteran- received, and perhaps some still do receive allowances. The facts are not fresh in my mind. They are the dependants of the veterans and they come under the category of loss of support and companionship. The reason that I suggested that the honourable member should approach the Department of Social Security was not based on a moral judgment. Under existing legislation there could be an opportunity for a war widow to receive that type of allowance and benefit more financially than she would have done if she had stayed under the Repatriation Act. If the war widow remarried she then would lose her war widow's pension. 
But just let me put this proposition to the honourable member. It is one of the factors that I am considering in the case. It does not mean that we reject the philosophy behind what the honourable member has said. If the war widow remarries she loses her war widow's pension. If she does not remarry and if there are children born who are not the children of the veteran, ought the Repatriation Act extend to the situation to take care of those dependants under the repatration allowance? There are always a stringency of funds. The Department of Veterans ' Affairs, with alowances and pensions to veterans and their dependants, is paying out something over $950m this year in that area alone. That is quite a substantial amount. But despite that, there are areas of very great need. Our first obligation- as I said this morning- is to members of the forces themselves. I do not think the honourable member is arguing about that. 
I will follow that up. With the funds we have, and with that priority, we have to ensure that the areas of greatest need are met. As I said this morning, that is one of the reasons why it is very difficult to extend the service pension to a worthy section of people such as certain merchant seamen. 
Order! The debate is interrupted. Does the Minister require an extension of time? 
I wish to continue for another minute. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of extending eligibility for Defence Service Homes benefits to persons who served in Australia during the 1939-45 War in the Citizen Military Forces or Women's Services was fully considered by the Government last year. As a result of that consideration, the Defence Service Homes Amendment Act 1 978 incorporated certain Ministerial directions which had been followed since 1948 and which prohibited the granting of assistance to such persons if they did not serve outside Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It should be noted that the percentages for 1974-75 are not strictly comparable with those for subsequent years. As from 1975-76 the statistics have been based on house costs and prices during the last quarter of the financial year instead of the average over the whole year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The pension was frozen with effect from 2 November 1978. 
The information requested by the honourable member is not readily available, for the period November 1978 to October 1 979, and its compilation would be a very expensive and time consuming exercise. The honourable member may be interested in the estimates that, from November 1979, there will be a saving to the Government of $3.2m for the remainder of the year 1979-80 and $4.6m in the full year 1980-81. 
The estimated savings do not take into account any increases in pension rates which may take place in May 1980 or in the financial year 1 980-8 1. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1 July 1978, the number of beds at Rosemount Repatriation Hospital has been reduced from 80 to 60 and the staff employed full-time reduced from 122 to 111. Activities related to the Low Vision Clinic and a position of Woodwork Instructor have, in the same period, been transferred to R.G.H. Greenslopes. 
Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders on Queensland Reserves  (Question No.  4849) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As from1 November 1979, meal allowance was increased to the rate paid to Commonwealth Public Servants. It will henceforth be automatically adjusted in line with that rate and will be paid subject to the same conditions. Travelling and mileage allowances were similarly adjusted. Under the conditions applying to meal allowances persons away from home or work only during the period 10.00 a.m. to 2.00 p.m. are not eligible to receive a meal allowance. However, as I indicated in my answer to question No. 4897  (Hansard,  6 November 1979, P2676) meals are provided free of charge to certain day patients at Repatriation hospitals. The decision to modify the amount and conditions under which meal allowance is payable will benefit veterans and I see no reason for its reconsideration. 
