I wish to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. By way of brief background, my question concerns an item on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  AM  this morning which consisted of the ABC's correspondent in America quoting an article by a  Mr 
Coburn in the lastest issue of the American publication  Village Voice  which, in turn, is based on an article by an Australian reporter,  Mr Malcolm  Salmon, in the latest issue of the Paris magazine  Le Monde Diplomatique.  According to the ABC report, the unsupported article in the  Village Voice  claims that the Central Intelligence Agency played a role in the Governor-General's dismissal of the previous Government. As this article is likely to be quoted by reputable newspapers in both Europe and America, will the Minister for Foreign Affairs instruct his Department to inform Australia's overseas posts that  Mr Salmon  is not associated with any reputable newspaper in Australia but is in fact a journalist with the Communist Party's newspaper  Tribune  and has been a member of the National Committee of the Communist Party of Australia since 1967? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. As one of the major costs in the consumer price index is home interest and as encouragement to the home building industry is a quick way to stimulate the economy, will the Minister or the Treasurer consider implementing a scheme of tax free, low interest- say 5 per cent- deposits at savings banks and building societies to be lent to low income, first home applicants? Will he agree that such a scheme should get more young people housed, give some impetus to the home building industry and cost less than government housing? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As great concern has been caused in Tasmania over a statement by the Leader of the Opposition, reported in the  Mercury  on 24 February, that 'Bell Bay should become Tasmania's sole port and that either Devonport or Wynyard airport should be closed down' will the Minister give an assurance to all the employees, industries and people generally dependent on the transport system involved that this Government fully supports the present system of both ports and airports? 
I ask a question of  Senator Cotton  as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As it appears probable that some States would be unlikely to join the Australian Dairy Corporation scheme for reorganisation of the dairy industry, would the Minister believe it likely that assistance could be given to those exporting States which do agree, which would participate in such a scheme, which are desperately in need of some scheme and which are currently looking to a season in which prices to be paid to suppliers could be in the order of 35c per lb without some scheme? 

 -Mr President, I rise to support the motion moved by my colleague  Senator Knight.  Although I come into the debate at a late stage, I wish to extend my congratulations to all the new senators and trust that I and they may endeavour to use this Senate to be objective and for the purpose for which we were all elected. The last, or perhaps I should say the first, few days have given me the opportunity to see something of how the Senate works. While there are many senators and staff of the Senate whom I have not yet met and do not know personally, I have had the opportunity,  Mr President,  to see you at work and to hear the many genuine tributes made to you in your honour. Having seen you,  Sir, I  can understand those tributes better and trust that like your many illustrious predecessors you, too, may be so regarded by posterity. To the  Chairman  of Committees and his deputies I also extend my congratulations. 
I feel deeply the honour and the responsibility placed on me to represent Tasmania. I am a Tasmanian by birth, by inclination and by conviction. I love Tasmania and in this place and outside it I will present Tasmania's case and do what I can to ease its disabilities and relieve its increasing isolation. I should like to take the opportunity to say something of some of the matters which concern Tasmania. For a start, most non-Tasmanians associate Tasmania with one of a variety of things which are special to Tasmania. These include apples and small fruits, potatoes, tourism, paper, Queenstown and the Mt Lyell mine, or just farming in general. Although the associations seem to remain, regrettably many of these things may not remain for long. There have been changes and, in many cases, big ones. The fruit industry has the problem of tremendous labor costs, prohibitive shipping costs and changes in the markets, both at home and abroad. These matters have placed the industry on the brink of extinction- like the fruit industry in Victoria. Until we get new varieties, new harvesting and new product developments, the industry will be in trouble. 
The potato industry in Tasmania was once a very big industry. At its height there were 80 000 acres of potatoes grown by 8000 growers. These figures have now fallen to the point where there are 5000 acres and 500 growers. This has been caused by the cost of shipping potatoes from Tasmania to Sydney and Brisbane. Even our tourist industry is faltering at present because of high labour costs, high development costs and high fares. The paper industry is having problems through competition, both at home and abroad, from low labour producers and low freight countries. Queenstown is a rather special case. With Gormanston, which is another company-owned town, there are 5500 people in this area, 1250 of whom are on the direct weekly payroll of the mine and 5000 of whom are directly dependent on the mine for their subsistence. It is a fascinating place. The copper mine, which has been in operation since 1893, now has assets in excess of $ 100m, on present values, and injects approximately $30m a year into the economy. Most of this money is overseas funds. It is represented by wages, contracts, taxes, general purchases and services. But we do not know for how long this situation will continue, because of the decline in world copper prices and the increased cost of production. It will not be possible to continue the mine without some support. 
Farming has given Tasmania much of its charm for visitors. The agriculture and the livestock have done much to enhance the natural beauty of the island, and in many fields Tasmania's agriculture has led Australia. Now it is a matter of subsistence for all the dairy and beef farmers. Reorganisation of the world's production and marketing setups has left producers in Australia to regroup and re-organise. This is also the case in Tasmania except that through increased isolation, costs are higher and returns always inevitably lower. During the years, each time costs have increased Tasmanian farmers have had another look, made some changes and continued to become more and more efficient. But there is a limit to this, and right now the end is in sight. 
The dairyman cannot be squeezed any more. Dairymen in Tasmania have improved their pastures, their herds and their management. For instance, in 1960-61 there were 127 000 cows in milk at an average production of 505 gallons a head spread over 2820 farms. By 1973-74 the number of farms had dropped to 2032, which was a drop of 40 per cent. Although the number of cows was virtually the same, or marginally up, production had increased to 632 gallons a cow, which was an increase of 25 per cent. However, the farmers' incomes had declined. It must be taken into account that during this period the majority of farmers who had subsidiary incomes from the potato markets lost them as well and many had to become committed for extra land, plant or irrigation just to remain as dairymen. Many of the farmers who had employed labour for many years could no longer do so and were returned to the family farm situation. Dairymen in Tasmania are now as efficient as any in the world and are far more efficient than all but a select few. Can we afford to lose a really efficient industry, an industry which is well located and which has a tremendous bearing on the overall sociology of the region? 
During the decade 1965-1975 production in Tasmania changed largely from cream to whole milk and from butter to cheese. Whereas production of butter during the decade reached a high using 336 million litres of milk, it was down to 248 million litres, or a reduction of 30 per cent, in 1974-75 and is still falling. Cheese production of any consequence really only started about 1960. At that stage it was using only 3.7 million litres of milk a year. By 1964-65 this was increased to 23 million litres and by 1974-75 to 123 million litres, which represented a 500 per cent increase in 10 years. Of the total production of milk in Australia, 25 per cent is consumed as town milk. Half the balance is consumed within Australian as cheese, butter and powdered milk. The remainder of the balance- say 35 per centeither is used for export or, regrettably, is surplus. This is occurring at a time when we are importing between 7000 and 8000 tonnes of cheese a year from overseas, where it is produced on high subsidy and on a market support scheme. Before looking for support at home we must scrutinise the import situation. 
No one can argue that the Tasmanian cheese manufacturers in particular have not done well to promote their industry. They have developed a quality product, they have made available to the consumer a wide range of fancy cheeses, they have used efficient production methods and they have promoted their product vigorously. In fact, over the last 10 years Australians have doubled their per capita consumption of cheese and twothirds of total production is consumed now within Australia. A drastic situation still exists within the industry which, like most rural pursuits, has to combat world market effects. However, in considering Australia 's overall dairy situation surely the efficient must be encouraged and those at the bottom of the industry must go first. 
We need to recognise and to face some very hard facts in respect of the entire industry. I suggest that an examination of the industry will indicate that the following points are valid: The industry as a whole is in a far worse condition than generally is conceded; the problem is caused jointly by market shortage and overproduction; without immediate action the industry is certain to worsen in the short term; revival of any consequence seems unlikely for many years- at least five to 10 years; the urgent aim must be to reduce production to that sufficient to cover local markets and known overseas contracts; a subsidy system, which reduces over 3 to 5 years and pays dairymen not to milk cows may well be appropriate; the surplus appears to be 25 per cent to 30 per cent of total production; concentration would be best centred on strengthening the most efficient and economic producers, the best manufacturers and those with the highest marketing expertise; districts and herds of lowest and least efficient production should receive assistance first; the least efficient manufacturers should be phased out as quickly as possible; cutting production would remove the need for export support and achieve higher prices for the producers; the domestic market would thus have to pay the ruling market price for dairy products; close scrutiny of all imports of cheese in particular would need to be made to determine their retention, reduction or abolition; and a 12 months support price for this season's product, particularly milk powder, should be implemented immediately. 
It is not possible for the surplus dairy farmers to change over to beef production. In fact, many of these farmers cannot do anything other than what they are doing. It just is not reasonable in the short term for a farmer to go into beef production in a big way as a means of getting out of dairying. Great possibilities exist for the export of live stud cattle, goats and sheep but this is an almost untouched market. Its expansion would help all States but it would help Tasmania in particular because of its very high proportion of this type of production. The horse bloodstock industry, with ideal soils and climate, has commenced to flourish and the results are coming through already. Better sires have produced better foals and better prices and Tasmanian horses are getting due recognition now on their merits. 
Vegetables appear to have a very good future. Nowhere in mainland Australia is it possible to produce a range of popular vegetables at the cost at which it is possible in Tasmania. With the firm establishment of 3 vegetable processors and now an amalgamation of great strength in the industry there is real hope. Current production figures would include potatoes at approximately 80 000 tonnes, green beans at 8000 tonnes, peas at 2 1 000 tonnes, carrots at 8000 tonnes, onions at 12 000 tonnes, plus increasing quantities of brasicas, broad beans, beet, pumpkins and many crops previously not grown commercially. As an adjunct to the growth in processed vegetables I expect a strong and prosperous fresh vegetable market to arise, particularly in Melbourne, transport willing. Before leaving this field of discussion I should like to make one observation. If even one honourable senator believes he can gain popularity by attracting publicity against the superphosphate bounty, he will not gain that popularity in Tasmania. Superphosphate is badly needed in Tasmania and all those who can afford it will use it. Even if their refund is only $30 or $50 it will be greatly appreciated. 
I turn now to King Island and Flinders Island. Over many years much has been said of these islands and of their problems; so much so that it is now hard to have the real situation understood and appreciated. Frankly, the situation is terrible and it is deteriorating. These people are a pioneer community and their position must be considered. The islands have had 100 years of agriculture and many of the occupants are descended from the early settlers. These communities have really suffered because of the many vagaries and problems of sea transport. There were periods when there were no ships at all and periods when there were ships but the costs made them completely uneconomic to use. Problems of getting superphosphate on to the islands and getting stock off, dead or alive, are part of the way of life of the islanders. King Island was redeveloped after the war and had a strong dairy industry, at one stage with up to 197 suppliers. This has dropped to 47 suppliers. These people are committed now to factory re-equipment costing over half a million dollars in order simply to survive, the King Island Dairy Products Cooperative Society Ltd having shown last year a trading loss of $239,000. 
An amount of $15.30 per head for cattle to travel 100 miles over water, plus loading, plus transport to the markets and plus costs, is a very high price to pay. The animals could be killed on the island at the Tasmanian Government abattoirs which last year, working as a service organisation, showed a trading loss of $170,000. Currently the carcass can be flown to Melbourne at 4c per pound which is about 25 per cent of the value of the beast. Providing the land gets superphosphate it is ideal livestock country. It is probably the best dairying area I know in Australia. At present it carries 70 000 sheep and 65 000 cattle and these figures could easily be doubled if it were economically viable to do so. 
There were more than 50 fishing boats operating from Currie; now there are seventeen. There are 2 mines. The one at Kibuka has only 3 to 5 years of life remaining, while it is hoped that King Island Scheelite has a life of over 20 years. This mine provides the greatest current stabilising force to the island's economy. The islanders are wonderful people and the islands are wonderful places. The great service given to the islands over the years by Brain and Brown Airfreighters Pty Ltd cannot go unrecorded. It has done everything possible to give service and at the same time to cushion all the economic problems as they seem inevitably to arise. 
The future of Tasmania, after yet another reorganising period, I expect will come back to livestock, agriculture, mining and tourism. There will be production and sale of stud stock. Beef appears to be headed for another trough, probably as bad as that experienced in 1975, but hopefully it will pick up again to reach a more reasonable level by 1977 and then set out on a stabilised pattern which should give a reasonable return to producers. I was pleased today to hear that United Milk Products Limited, a local Tasmanian firm, has secured a Canadian order involving some 12 000 head at a return to farmers of about $ 1 m. That will take a lot of the immediate pressure from northern Tasmania and King Island and I hope will allow the beef men to keep their cattle through until 1977. when it appears that a recovery should be on the way. In that regard, I take the opportunity to congratulate United Milk on getting the order and to say what a great help it will be to Tasmania. 
Dairying, after considerable reorganisation, is certain to start from a new base and expand again both at home and abroad, particularly in relation to cheese, as the necessity for protein foods and the ability of other countries to pay for them rises. Vegetable cropping, I suggest, will probably double within five to ten years. Pharmaceutical poppies will be a very valuable crop likely to double in the very short term. Both superfine and coarse or carpet types of wool certainly will retain a big place and, with redevelopment, fruit could again come to the fore with different methods, new products or new varieties. Timber and timber products, including paper, will continue to be a very big industry, and it is hoped that paper and paper products will show a big expansion in the short term. The Associated Pulp and Paper Mills plant at Wesley Vale produces speciality magazine papers and Australia uses 100 000 tonnes of magazine paper a year. The APPM plant has a capacity to produce 40 000 tonnes a year but is working to sales of only 25 000 tonnes a year because of imports, largely from Finland and Scandinavia. The plant could more than double its production if that were required. Frankly, I do not understand present circumstances. The firm has expansion plans valued at $150m, involving vast increases in its Tasmanian operation, but has put them in abeyance until mid 1976, waiting to see if the proposition is viable and what considerations it can get. Such an expansion would be wonderful for Tasmania in the utilisation of human, natural and existing transport and business resources. 
If Mt Lyell can weather its present problems mining will still be a major factor in the life of Tasmania, and with two or three new mines perhaps starting soon minerals still will be the big money earner. In tourism Tasmania still has much to offer, but it is so hard to get people there. We hear regularly of potential tourists with the same wrong ideas. They believe that Tasmania can be visited and looked over in a day or two. They believe that it is about the size of Hayman Island and that because it is so small it is hardly worth going there for a holiday for two or three weeks. They also have ideas about the climate. Quite frankly, one only has to consider the climate of Queensland and northern New South 
Wales at present, Melbourne at any time and Canberra most of the time to realise that Tasmania's climate is not too bad. When one considers the forests and the mountains, the rivers and lakes, the fishing and the beaches, Mt Lyell and the Gordon River, Strathgordon, the Derwent, Mount Rowland and so on, Tasmania has much to offer. We want visitors to enjoy the things that we enjoy, and I hope that much can be made of those things in the years ahead. Certainly we have problems, but we have a lot of advantages as well, and with some all round consideration Tasmania will continue to make its usual contribution to the Australian way of life as a whole. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources or the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that due to the problems of the copper mining industry at large, and to the fact that the first 29 dismissal notices have been issued today by the Mount Lyell company, some emigration has already started from Queenstown? Can the Minister expedite a decision on the degree of assistance to be made available to the Mount Lyell company to avoid what I trust will be an unnecessary disruption to the community? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. In view of yesterday's report that New Zealand has taken action which, it is reported, will change the Australia-New Zealand trade arrangements relating to motor cars, will the Minister now re-examine the arrangements for the import of frozen vegetables and cheese from New Zealand in the light of the stated needs of Australia's own dairy and vegetable industries? 
I ask this question of  Senator Cotton  as Minister representing the Minister for  Overseas  Trade or as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Having regard to the very poor market for export meat, can the Minister advise whether any progress is being made in the export of live cattle to Indonesia and other countries in the eastern area in particular which require cattle but which are not buyers of slaughtered meat? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As we understand that the Tasmanian Premier visited the Prime Minister at Parliament House yesterday to discuss Tasmania's problems, will the Minister advise whether  Mr Neilson  brought with him the Tasmanian Government's submission on the Tasmanian dairy industry? If not, what was the nature of the submission made on behalf of the industry which as we all know, is in its most desperate state in Tasmania's history? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. As some confusion exists over the publicity given to the expression of ages in matters of social welfare will the Minister please explain the position? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface it by reminding the Minister that the Tasmanian Premier last week visited the Prime Minister and the Treasurer and, amongst other things, discussed the financing of the north-west regional water scheme. In view of the Prime Minister's statement last week that the Federal Government's commitment still stands and will be available when  Mr Neilson  can tell the Prime Minister that there is agreement between the participating councils and the totally incorrect and I believe deliberately misleading publicity being given to the matter by both the Premier and  Mr Duff,  the  Chairman  of" the North West Municipal League, I ask: Firstly will the Minister advise the Senate whether  Mr Neilson  provided any potentially acceptable alternatives to the proposal under discussion, which is not acceptable as presently presented? Secondly, will he ask the Prime Minister or the Treasurer whether he will make a short confirmatory statement of the position not only of the Commonwealth but also of the State and local governments so that the people of the area- and, hopefully,  Mr Neilson  and  Mr Duff-  may understand the position? 
-I do not ignore the dried fruits people or their industry because the Bill which is before us is not worthy of comment but because, in compliance with the pattern of such debates, the opportunity arises to debate other issues. I wish to speak briefly on three small matters, all of which I believe have been in receipt of publicity adverse to them and which I believe accordingly deserve to be spoken for. Firstly, a question was asked in this chamber last week about Savage River Mines. The question and the answer gave rather an incorrect impression of the position of the company previously and of the position in which it now stands. 
Savage River Mines was established in 1 968 in Tasmania as an exporter of iron ore pellets. It was planned to have a capacity of 2 'A million tons a year and it employs approximately 670 workers at the Savage River Mine, and at the pelletising plant at Port Latta. The undertaking was constructed at a cost of about $80m, of which half was supplied by the Japanese- about $40m- $37m was supplied by the United States of America and about $3m by Australia. The Australian investment in the venture comprises Ampol Mining Pty Ltd, Australian Mutual Provident Society, the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd, Kathleen Investments (Australia) Ltd, the Mutual Life and Citizens' Insurance Co. Ltd, the National Mutual Life 
Association of Australia Ltd and the United Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Yes, it is a multinational company. In the early days of the mine's operations it suffered from minor problems but with practice they were overcome. It achieved its target production in the early times. However, since then it has had problems. It has a turnover now of about $34m a year, of which about $25m goes directly into the pipeline in Australia. The undertaking's main imports are bentonite clay, which comes from the United States, and oil for the furnaces. It is the largest magnetite mining and processing operation in Australia, and the mine has really settled in to be very much an integral part of the community in the area. However, there are 2 points which I wish to make clear. When referring to the operations for the last year the manager of the mine,  Mr Sheppard,  said: 
One of the barriers to attaining economic viability at Savage River was industrial disputes. Shutdowns in the past 12 months caused by strikes had reduced production by at least 400 000 tonnes. 
The whole operation depends to a very fine degree on keeping the mill operating at full capacity, and to be 400 000 tonnes down on a projected production of 2 250 000 tonnes makes all the difference to the viability of the mine. The mine did have trouble because it underestimated the amount of waste per tonne of pellets, but this has been overcome. The main cause for the reduced production was the industrial disputes at the mine, and no amount of guaranteeing of quotas would have altered the position. Every pellet that the mine can make is sold. The mine has a 1 5-year contract. There is no question that it would not help the Savage River mine in any way to have a quota on anything except work. 
The second matter that I wish to mention arises from a statement made in this chamber yesterday by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. He said:  . . Bearing in mind that the LAC has found -since the last report of a committee of inquiry into the dairy industry in 1960- that the industry generally is in a viable and economically sound position? This is so, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania. The dairy industry in South Australia is picking up considerably. 
I would not like that remark to pass without making some reference to it. We find that the dairy industry has gone to a lot of trouble recently to get itself into a better condition. The Australian Dairy Corporation which was set up by our predecessors has had committees of inquiry working on this question. The equalisation board has revamped a new system, and many other proposals have been brought forward to help the dairy industry in a number of ways. I hope that the first results of these initiatives will become apparent in the very near future. 
At present there are about 2 500 000 milking cows in Australia. The dairy industry is a completely export oriented industry, because 91 per cent of our casein, 87 per cent of our milk powder and 45 per cent of our butter and cheese is placed on the export market. Of that, in total tonnage, approximately half is surplus. This means that at present approximately one-third of our total dairy production is not required either at home or abroad and that of the 2 500 000 cows in Australia, about 750 000 are at present surplus. In Australia at the present time there is a surplus of nearly 100 000 tonnes of milk powder and 15 000 tonnes of cheese, besides the casein and butter which we are having trouble in selling. We must look at the question of how the industry will survive by changes in technology, in new products, in new markets both at home and abroad and in new methods of manufacture. Rationalisation in the dairy industry, as in other industries, is a must, but the problems connected with it will not be easy or pleasant to overcome. Nonetheless, it is necessary that rationalisation should be introduced into the dairy industry. 
I believe that there must be a degree of cooperation with New Zealand on overseas markets if better prices are to be obtained by either New Zealand or Australia. I commend to the Government the proposal that it should make every effort to have some sort of a joint marketing system. I believe it is necessary that we should introduce quotas on imports, particularly of fancy cheese. We are producing fancy cheese in Australia and trying to sell it overseas, but at the same time we are importing approximately the same amount of this type of cheese. The position of the milk powder section of the dairy industry is most critical at the moment. At present milk powder is costing about $400 a tonne to produce but it is being sold overseas for approximately $250 a tonne. Until stocks of milk powder are reduced not only in Australia but also throughout the rest of the world, the situation in this section of the industry will not improve. 
I believe that we must build the dairy industry around the most efficient manufacturers and producers engaged in it. But we have to look after the areas in which the potentially sociologically disadvantaged people are located so that those people will not be put to too great a disadvantage by whatever form of rationalisation is introduced. There is no doubt it is a great pity that the dairy industry, which is another of Australia's great primary industries, is in this trouble. It is not on its own. There is no doubt that the good areas are terrifically efficient. In Tasmania, where dairying represents 28 per cent of the total rural production, the dairy industry is a major factor in the economy of that State. 
The third matter on which I should like to make a few comments concerns the north-west regional water scheme. Because totally wrong information has been given in the local Tasmanian Press and on Tasmanian radio and television, I should like to make some comments to clear up some of the misconceptions that exist in both Canberra and Tasmania. The north-west regional water scheme was designed originally to produce filtered water for the 8 constituent councils in the area. On 1 August 1973 the Federal Government agreed to provide 60 per cent of the total cost of the scheme- 30 per cent of this money by way of grant and 70 per cent by way of loan. The plans for the scheme were prepared at about that time, and from then on the scheme was taken as gospel. Of the 8 councils in the area concerned, six needed water and they needed it badly. But to provide water for those 6 councils, the other 2 councils which are part of the scheme that has been proposed would be very seriously and unfairly disadvantaged, and I think that everybody would or should concede that much. 
As the plans for the scheme had been prepared and as the scheme was taken for gospel by the Tasmanian Government and by the main recipients under the scheme, nothing further was done to see whether the scheme was the best one, or in fact whether it was a good one or a bad one, or whether it was economic or whether it was what we wanted. Because the plans for the scheme had been prepared and because Commonwealth money was available for the scheme, it was decided that that had to be the scheme. From that time practically no moves have been made to try to close the gaps that existed between the numerically minor councils and the 2 major councils. The 2 major councils which both have adequate supplies of good water, do not accept the proposal that has been put forward, and they never have accepted it. But no effort has yet been made to come up with an alternative scheme that would satisfy those 2 councils. Many private people- engineers, experienced council people and the like- have come up with alternative schemes but they can not get them seriously considered. For instance, in correspondence that I have received on the subject is a letter from one such person who states:   we are convinced that the Regional Scheme, in its various forms at present being considered by the Councils and the Commission, is neither the most economic nor the most practical for the area . . . 
The letter continues:   an amended proposal for the North West Regional Scheme . . . would be both considerably lower in capital cost and operating costs . . . 
Later, the letter reads: 
The technical report . . . has been taken for granted. We do not agree with this and suggest that a further investigation of the form of scheme could result in a more satisfactory final regional scheme for the North West Coast with both substantially reduced capital costs and operating costs. 
This has not been done. 
I support the councils that need water because water is probably the single most important factor in general urban life at present. But I do not see that the costs of providing water should be forced upon people who already have it and have already paid for it. I say again that I sympathise with the councils which do not have sufficient water. I will do everything that I can to assist in the promotion of alternative schemes that will see that they get the water that they need. 
When, by various direct methods, the Premier of Tasmania was unable to have the major councils agree to the plan, he then produced a proposal out of the blue. It was reported in this way: 
. the Premier  (Mr Neilson)  announced that a Bill to implement the scheme would go before State Parliament at the next sitting. 
If the Bill is passed, Burnie and Devonport, who have both rejected the project in its present terms, will be compelled to take part. 
The Warden of Burnie, Councillor Filled who followed the matter up was reported as saying: 

 Mr Neilson 's 'dictatorial attitude' extended not only to the forcing of Burnie and Devonport into the scheme. 
It also established the form of the proposed authority which would in effect be controlled by 'bureaucrats appointed from Hobart'. 
Cr Filled said the Premier told the council that if it was not prepared to help the region by joining in the regional water scheme, it could not reasonably expect the Government to be sympathetic to Burnie in considering future financial assistance in other areas. 
The Burnie Council has always been aware of the water needs of the region and is extremely sympathetic to the problems facing the small authorities. 
The costs could amount to up to $230,000 a year in return for no advantage to Burnie till 1981 . . . 
I must support the Warden of Burnie and the fight against this dictatorial attitude. I believe that, if it comes to the point, in this place we should also give that support. In all fairness, the people who need water must have water. We need to come around to retaining the options which are open. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said that the money is still available when uniformity can be achieved amongst the proposed recipients. 
With this in mind, the Premier of Tasmania came to Canberra last week to ask the Prime Minister whether he would make the money available. In spite of his meetings with the Burnie and Devonport Councils and others, he came to Canberra to see whether the Prime Minister would provide the money so that he could still force the scheme through. When he received a reply from the Prime Minister, a news release was issued in the name of the Premier. It said: 
The Federal Government has withdrawn its financial support for the North West Regional Water Supply Scheme at least for the time being. 
The Premier,  Mr Neilson,  said in Canberra today he had been told Federal budgetary problems meant the Government was not able to commit itself to the scheme at this stage. 
And the Prime Minister-  Mr Fraser-  had not indicated when the situation would be different. 

 Mr Neilson said this meant the State Government which had hoped to introduce legislation for the scheme this year could not go ahead. 
He said the previous Federal Labor Government had made a firm agreement to support the scheme to the extent of 60 per cent of the required loan fund- part of it nonrepayable. 
The ABC 's political reporter says the loss of Federal funds could be the final blow for the scheme, following the withdrawal of the two major municipalities, Burnie and Devonport, last year. 
That statement is completely untrue as well because the Prime Minister has confirmed that the money is still available, as soon as  Mr Neilson  and the councils are able to decide what scheme they want and that they are all prepared to agree to it and to pay for it. The payment aspect is where this matter becomes important. Where some of the councils are now paying quite low rates for their water, the smaller councils could be involved in costs of up to about $150 a tenament a year on the basis of the scheme proposed. If they were to pay that sort of price for their water, I think the Burnie and Devonport councils could probably allow the scheme to go ahead now. But where Burnie and Devonport councils are expected lo pay more than double the water charges than they now pay, to achieve no benefit, they are not prepared to do so. If the scheme can be reorganised and reclassified, I still believe that there is no real reason why we cannot have this water scheme implemented. I follow up my remarks by what I suppose is, more or less, an appeal to the people who are concerned. I ask them to get together, to forget politics and to think about the need for the water. If this is not done, everybody will miss out, particularly people who need the water most. 
I rise to support the Bill. I do so not so much with reservations as with offering some suggestions for consideration. Together with reproduction and the need for food, housing is one of the three basic requirements of our life. It is my contention that a Bill of this sort is not designed to produce its maximum result. It is in this regard that I feel that my suggestions should be made. I trust that once we get the Bill out of the way we will be able to consider the future and what actions should be taken from there on. I feel that the amount of money that is involved in this legislation could do much more than it is likely to do under the restrictions that go with it. I feel that we will accept a system which is far less efficient and effective than we could have. 
Besides some amounts of personal experience with housing I have had the opportunity over a period of years to have many discussions with various Tasmanian Ministers for Housing and many executives of the Housing Department. At various times I have canvassed points of view which I probably will now espouse. I will not say that all of them have been agreed with but they have been discussed. Nowhere other than in the housing field do we have such complete bureaucratisation. I do not know why this has to be so in housing. So many people are talking so much and there is so much overlapping, so much collection of useless and unused statistics and so little improvement. As honourable senators would be aware at one stage 3 separate Government organisations were all producing reports on housing. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Having regard to the isolation of the Bass Strait islands and their need for special transport facilities, will the Minister ensure that before the recommendations of the Nimmo report relating to the closure of the Stanley port to the roll-on roll-off service are seriously considered, the particular needs, the particular uses and the special circumstances of those islands are taken into account so that the service may not only be retained but also improved? 
Having, before the suspension of the sitting for dinner referred to the basic nature of housing, I would now simply like to say that everybody wants a house. Some may want to buy while others may want to rent. I believe we are not doing enough for people in either category. Previous Liberal-Country Party governments did much for the housing industry in the circumstances then prevailing, but I believe that now we have to see how we can do much more. Our predecessors, on the advice of all sorts of ideological amateurs, wrecked much of the housing program that had been set up and much of what was actually done by them turned out to be counterproductive. The basic failure to simplify a fundamental issue by confusing it with massive doses of difficult theory finally got the housing program bogged down to the stage where we were not achieving what either the policy or the needs prescribed. 
Generally speaking, people will buy a house if they can afford it. If they cannot afford it, I see no reason why they should be forced to buy. If they want to rent one they should be allowed to do so. If a person wishes to buy a house the problem at present- this has always been the case but not to the same extent as now- is the high interest rates. That is the prime killer. The second difficulty facing prospective home buyers is the cost of providing municipal services. We have had much publicity in the last year or two of the part that land plays in the cost of a house, but this has been considerably overrated and overstated. But this publicity has not been correct, as I think most honourable senators are aware. Honourable senators will probably remember bygone days when one bought a block of land that was not even pegged. There were no streets, no footpaths, probably no kerbs or gutters, no stormwater drains, no sewerage, no buses, no telephones, probably no power, no garbage collection, no dog catchers, no parks and gardens, no swimming pools, and no sports grounds. These services now are all thrown in but somebody has to pay to have them thrown in. We all know that the somebody who pays is the person who buys the block of land ultimately. We cannot have these facilities unless somebody pays and we do not get them unless somebody wants them. 
We hear a great deal about the big profits that are made by the subdividers. History records the huge profits that have been made by people such as Reid Murray and Cambridge Credit corporations, and now I see that the Alfred Grant organisation is joining the profit list. Only one barometer will determine the need at the right price and that is supply and demand. If we upset the balance, we upset the price. The pathetic understanding of zoning and planning that constantly creates shortages is the factor which upsets the price of housing more than anything else. We always seem to be confronted with one of a variety of ways of government interference in the housing market that upsets the price to the end consumer. Zoning is not the only factor which affects the price. We have monsters such as the Land Commissions which did more to wreck the housing industry in Australia than anything else has done for many years. The Land Commissions took land ready for development out of development. They took developers out of the market. They had no funds to carry on and develop in many cases. They did not develop; they created shortages wherever they went and put up the price of houses. 
In southern Tasmania, for instance, there is enough land for thirty or forty years development. In South Australia we have only to look at the Monarto situation. I was going to say development but it is a living memorial- perhaps it is a dead memorial- to the housing bureaucracy. Monarto must surely rate as the most undesirable suburban residential area in Australia. Time alone will show just how undesirable it is. We cannot make people go to undesirable places just because someone else's money has been poured into their development. Supply and demand alone will determine what areas are suitable. I realise that a lot of government money must provide for the public sector, but we must recognise also that government money will achieve most if it is injected into the private sector. I illustrate this by pointing out that ordinary government housing will cost the Government 100 per cent of the total cost. If it is expended, for example, through the Aged Persons Homes Act it will cost the Government 75 per cent to 80 per cent of the total cost. If it goes out through the cooperatives it will average out at about 70 per cent government funds and 30 per cent private funds. If we use this money to give satisfaction and to create initiative we will achieve a far greater result. The present use of the money so often ties it up for many years when it should be recirculating and building more houses all the time. 
I believe we should also make all government housing available immediately for purchase at current rates, if people wish to purchase such houses. Again, this would get money back into circulation. I believe we should be giving occupants of departmental houses the incentive to buy those houses and pay them off. I think we should also create incentives to get people to contribute towards the cost of the houses into which they move. We have to increase the incentive to the private sector to provide rental accommodation, particularly for the lower income groups. The needy should be given priority by the public sector. Those able to help themselves should be given encouragement in every way possible. 
I suggest that a thorough investigation of the system of capitalisation of child endowment for home deposits be entered into. As a stimulus to the lower income borrowers, I would support a program of low interest, tax free deposits lodged with building societies, for lending to the lower income means tested group. This would make more money available for the socially deprived who, as we are all aware, have a real need. I believe that all public sector housing finance should be means tested and that applicants receiving means tested finance should be given a means test every year. As their situation and their capacity to pay changes each year, so they should be either upgraded or downgraded. On that basis, rents could vary and those who formerly did not have the capacity to pay, say, full rent, may later be able to pay the full economic rent. 
The Australian Institute of Urban Studies has compiled an interesting report. The 2 main conclusions contained in the report are probably its best features. The statement of the major conclusions and recommendations begins as follows: 
We identify the principal problems in Australia today as: 
The failure of the rental market and its special effects on the disadvantaged and the young. 
The plight of the marginal home-seekers. 
Priority of action should go to these 2 areas. 
I could not say that I agree with much of what is left of the report but I would certainly agree with those first 2 conclusions and recommendations. I think we have to concentrate on 2 areas: Firstly, serving the greatest need and, secondly, serving the greatest number. At present we find many instances of public sector housing being used by people in the $15,000 to $20,000 income bracket who are enjoying concessional rates of interest or rent while jamming up their driveways with caravans, boats and 2 or 3 cars. I believe that the States not only should be freed from the constraints placed upon the current housing money, but also should in fact prevent the constraints from continuing. I believe that more emphasis must be placed on helping the socially inadequate wherever and however the need arises. At the same time we should provide encouragement for those people who are, or can be made, able to do something for themselves. I support the Bill. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security as Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it correct that funds have been deferred for the proposed improvements to the facilities of the Montagu Medical Union at Rosebery on the west coast of Tasmania? Is the Minister aware that this isolated mining community of some 6000 people is served by the Montagu Medical Union and that, over the next 1 8 months, the population will rise by a further 2000 persons as a result of the Tullah hydro-electric development, and that reasonable medical services are vital? 
-Can the Minister for Education give information on the proposed Devonport technical college? Is the project still on the development list? Have funds been approved? Has a tender been accepted? When is it expected that construction will commence? 
I rise to speak in support of the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill and to say how nauseated I am with the tripe to which I have just had to listen. The subsidy arose from the passing of legislation in 1966, legislation which was reintroduced in 1969 and again in 1972. Honourable senators opposite say that they support this legislation. It appears that they do support it to some extent but I am not sure how much because they seem to have spoken mostly against it. They have been trapped into it a bit by former  Senator Wilkinson  and  Dr Patterson,  neither of whom I recognise as being members of the Parliament now, who spoke in favour of the subsidy in 1 972. The basis of the Opposition's argument surprises me somewhat. The premise on which the Opposition says that it supports the subsidy is completely at error. As I understand it, nitrogenous fertilisers are used by the people who already use superphosphate or phosphatic fertilisers. It is an additional fertiliser, so that if producers already get one bonus they will get an extra bonus. It is not a case of producers who do not get the superphosphate bounty getting the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty because the reverse is the fact. I find that if farmers of any consequence are doing well they may use both, if they are struggling they will use superphosphate, but if they are really down and out they will use neither. So the premise that the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy is helping the person who is not being helped by a superphosphate bounty is absolute rubbish. 
The sugar cane growers use both. Vegetable growers use both and people who irrigate grass use both. Contrary to the argument that has been put, the bounty will go to the better industries where, if anything, the use of these fertilisers can be afforded anyway. This is the complete reverse of the argument that has been put forward by the Opposition. I thought that the wording of the second paragraph on page5 of the report of the Industries Assistance Commission summed up the situation fairly well. A former Prime Minister on 7 June 1974 was responsible for referring to the Commission the question whether the Australian Government should pay a subsidy on manufactured nitrogenous substances used as a fertiliser and, if so, what should be the amount and duration of the subsidy, what should be the consequences of any assistance provided on the bases of maximum tonnage of fertiliser and what the tonnage should be. That is the basis of this legislation. These fertilisers are used by people who want them and need them but do not let us get confused by any fancy and hypothetical arguments about it. There is no abuse in the use of a highly priced commodity. Users will not waste it any more than they will waste fertiliser. 
The Opposition's argument about profitability and prices is quite invalid. If farmers are successful they will add more fertiliser; if they add more fertiliser they will probably employ more labour in their fields. They may even make more money, and if they make more money they will pay more tax and the profitability of many crops with or without fertilisers is such that the amount of tax users will pay into the coffers will be considerably greater than the pittance represented by the fertiliser subsidy. So the amount of money spent on the subsidy is of little consequence. The way in which the subsidy is used to help people who really need it was well summed up the day the superphosphate bounty was reintroduced in a poem which appeared in the  King Island News.  It summed up the general feeling. The poem was headed  'The Superphosphate Bounty's Coming Back'.  And read as follows: 
The superphosphate bounty's been returned! 
I heard it on the ABC- confirmed. 
As was promised pre-election, 
That pampered farmer section, 
Will get the super bounty all returned. 
If you 've borrowed to the maximum to live, 
And your funds have run like water through a sieve, 
Now's the time to give a cheer, 
And celebrate- Hear! Hear! 
For the great relief the bounty's going to give. 
With the use of superphosphate profits soar; 
Everybody is aware of this, what's more: 
What used to be a hundred mate, 
Is now reduced to eighty-eight. 
Oh you must rush off and order lots, lots more! 
Forget the mortgage millstones round your neck, 
Fill in another overdrafted check; 
More super on the ground- 
Keep going round and round, 
For we have to salvage something from the wreck. 
The IAC and all the back-room boys, 
Away from all the politics and noise, 
Have issued a report- 
In essence quite, quite short: 
It's the lack of superphosphate which annoys. 
And the CSIRO and all their folk, 
Have stated that the farmers won't go broke, 
As long as they apply it, 
They must, must not deny it- 
Peter Cundall thinks it all a joke ! 
The thing the farmer really has to do, 
Is work it out on paper, two plus two. 
A simple sum, 
Howmuch'saton? 
And cost and freight and fuel- that's minus two! 
And after that the odds are five to three, 
And five is what production costs, and three 
Is what you get after 
The agents laughter- 
I think somehow you 're down the drain, dear me! 
But wait! The superphosphate bounty's there; 
Its been discussed at length upon the air. 
So the simple thing to do, 
Is don 't add two and two- 
Just spread your super madly- everywhere! 
Oh I'm really looking forward to the day, 
When I can make my superphosphate pay, 
An then I can enjoy, 
The bounty, boy, oh boy! 
And fill my barns all busting out with hay! 
Oh, I 'm glad the bounty 'son again, not off; 
It's saved us from the grim financial trough, 
And I 'd like to thank you, Mal, 
You're the family farmer's pal, 
And you understand us just as well as Gough. 
Mention was made of organic farming and I must say that I support much of the theory behind it and its practice. It is something that should be encouraged although at this stage there is no way in which organic farming will take over from the use of either phosphatic or nitrogenous fertilisers for many years to come. However, we certainly need to keep an eye on it. I have also noticed that in 1972  Senator Primmer  cautioned against the raising of nitrate levels in drinking water. I have checked on this and am pleased to say that nowhere in Australia does there appear to have been dangerous contamination of drinking water that can be traced back to nitrogenous fertilisers. I support the Bill. 
I preface my question to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs by reminding him of the regrettably poor state of the economy in Tasmania where there is the lowest growth rate in Australia, the highest unemployment rate in Australia, the lowest average weekly earnings in Australia and, until recently forfeited to the Commonwealth, the worst rail services in Australia. All this is the legacy of the State Labor Government. How can credibility be given to the extravagant claims currently being made by  Mr Wran  in the face of the development and prosperity of New South Wales under the present Liberal Government and in view of the record of State Labor governments, particularly in Tasmania? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Has the Minister received from the Australian Shorthorn Export Association a request for an advance of up to $100,000 to assist in the promotion of Australian cattle on a world basis in Sydney in March and April 1977, and from which it is hoped to build a great new export field for Australian primary producers. If so, can the Minister advise whether support by way of grant, loan or both can be given and if so when, so that the organisers can proceed with finalising arrangements for the many overseas buyers already expected? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Having regard to the problems that inflation has created in the cost of housing and the fact that rental housing as a result is now required for a longer period than ever before, would the Minister advise whether any financial consideration could be given by way of investment or depreciation allowances that may allow the encouragement of the construction of more rental accommodation? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Minister know whether there has been a request to the Federal Government from the International Red Cross in Geneva for skim milk powder? If so, what quantity was requested? Can it be supplied under our aid program? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer a question which relates to the question asked by  Senator Tehan.  Will the Minister refer to the Treasurer the question of the destruction of drought affected dairy cattle with a request that the cattle so destroyed be subject to cash payment by the Government, as this would provide both cash at the time of need and some disincentive for the continued over-production, both of which would initially be preferable to social welfare payments. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. If the dairy industry is to be substantially curtailed, great sociological problems and considerable financial cost will be involved. Could the Minister institute an investigation that may show the present cost to the producers of selling dairy produce on very low overseas markets which have to be subsidised from the home industry returns on the one hand, against the welfare payments, exit grants and so on on the other hand, and compare those costs with a scheme of 'payment not to produce', bearing in mind the easing of personal problems, the lowering of production and the increases in prices to be realised that can be expected to follow such action? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As a background to my question I read from the  Fairplay International Shipping Weekly  of 25 March 1976: 
With wages that are grossly inflated by every conceivable standard and operating manning standards 2 decades out of date, the maritime unions make masochism out of shipowning and were it not for political protectionism there would not be a single Australian-flagship operating today. But shipowning is a statutory duty for the Australian National Line, so it must grin and bear it, while the taxpayer, as usual, makes up the difference. 
How does the Government see the future of both Australian shipbuilding and shipowning under these circumstances? 

 -Mr President, at a cattle growers' symposium in Rockhampton recently I raised the question of brucellosis eradication with one of the leaders of the industry in the area. I was told that at present they did not have time to worry about brucellosis eradication because they were fighting for survival. I would question the priorities of people who think that way. I am prepared to admit that the cattle industry is fighting for survival, but I believe that it is the brucellosis and tuberculosis situation which will determine whether or not the fight is won or lost in the long run. We are in a race for survival in the world markets and we are playing in a game where the winner takes all. The Bill before the Senate will provide $8m to $10m a year which, with the State government contributions, will be made up to an amount of something like $20m. The Minister has promised a compensation allowance as well, so that anybody who is in the grip of brucellosis eradication can be assured that he will be compensated adequately and that the system is going to be carried through. If we lose this race, the whole market has gone. We are rapidly reaching the stage where the world markets will not only want but demand clean meat. That requirement will come, make no mistake, and we have got to work out whether, when the time comes, we will be ready. 

 Senator Thomas referred to the current situation of high numbers and low values. There is no doubt that now is the most oportune time possible to go into a heavy eradication program. It can never be done cheaper and it can never be done to better advantage. The current rates of infestation seem very low, but they are a little misleading. The Industries Assistance Commission report of 10 April 1975 shows that in New South Wales the average prevalence level is about 2 per cent; in the Australian Capital Territory prevalence is low; in Victoria the Department of Agricul ture is working on figures of nil to 3 per cent; in South Australia the State average is 1.8 per cent; in the Northern Territory it is less than 2 per cent; in Queensland it is greater than 2 per cent; Western Australia is virtually free; and Tasmania is classified as free. But those figures still represent a lot of infestation and we have got to get rid of it. Very soon the world markets are going to show the difference between clean cattle and unclean cattle, and that position will apply whether it is for beef or for livestock. As a major cattle producing country, Australia must be ahead of its competition if it is to retain its proper place. We have to be ready or we will suffer the consequences. It is very easy for any of our major trading buyers suddenly to say that as from such and such a date all meat will come from brucellosis and tuberculosis free countries. 
We have to consider where we stand in comparison with some of our competitors. The same IAC report indicates that in New Zealand the eradication campaign commenced only in 197 1 , when 4.3 per cent of their dairy herds and 1 . 1 per cent of their beef herds were infested. They are working to see that the test and slaughter campaign will be extended to all cattle by 1977. In the United States the campaign was commenced in 1934. It was accelerated in 1 954, and now over 99 per cent of the cattle population is brucellosis free. The eradication program is due to be completed by 1983. In Canada eradication began in 1956, following a series of strain 19 vaccinations. At that time, 80 per cent of the cattle were in areas of 0. 1 per cent infestation or less. In Eire 6 counties have been declared free and voluntary eradication has been encouraged, but is not yet compulsory. In the United Kingdom in 1960-61 the prevalence was 2 per cent and work has been proceeding on the problem ever since. Complete eradication is expected in 10 to 15 years. In the Netherlands the test and slaughter program was commenced in 1958 and has reached a stage where it is now less than one in 10 000. In fact, it had reached that stage by 1970 and it is still reducing. 
We have to ensure that what we do is kept ahead of those sorts of countries. It is interesting to note that while we will be spending something like $20m this year on our eradication campaign, the United States will be spending $ 1 50m. That is what we are up against. As I said before, the first there wins, and as far as Australia is concerned, we must finish ahead of the United States because that is where the greatest risk lies. It is my opinion that the present problems suffered by both the beef and dairy industries are as nothing compared with what they will be if suddenly there is a brucellosis problem which causes blockages in our markets. I think we have to look at our live cattle marketing at this stage and see where we stand. With the immense cattle population we have in Australia, since 1967 we have averaged between 0.03 per cent and 0.2 per cent of the world's live cattle trade. It should be remembered that France carries 1 3 per cent to 1 4 per cent of the trade, Mexico 13 per cent, the Federal Republic of Germany 9 per cent, Ireland 8 per cent and Poland and Canada 4 per cent each. In other words, 6 countries have over 50 per cent of the total trade while Australia, which is one of the world's major cattle producing countries, lies fiftieth. People in the industry are satisfied that they could build up the trade to export over 1 million cattle a year, and with the sort of cattle which that trade would largely cover we are talking of business of the order of $500m. 
There can be no doubt that Australian stud stock is as good as the best in the world. It has a great reputation. It is strong, it is well bred, and it is welcome anywhere in the world. We have to do all we possibly can to see that the market is expanded, and again I would point out that clean cattle will dominate the world market. In both traditional and Australian breeds, there are no better cattle than we have here. Recently I made representations to the Government for financial assistance to aid in a world promotion for Australian shorthorn export breeders. A world shorthorn fair has been organised by the breeders for the time of the Sydney Show next year. Stockbreeders of all types from all over the world will be invited to meet at the Sydney Show. It is a tremendous opportunity for us to get right into the front window of the world cattle market with the people who really count. Regrettably, at this stage financial assistance for the promotion has not yet been forthcoming. I am still working on it. I hope that the Ministers concerned will be aware of this and I trust that at both Federal and State level we will be able to get some assistance to ensure the success of the operation. 
Let me return to eradication. Eradication is definitely not a government matter only. We have to make sure that the growers play their part in the field. Most of the eradication has been carried out with some passive opposition from the farmers. In some areas, of course, it has been done with every assistance. We have to get the farmers to realise that they are very much part of the program and that the whole success of the operation depends on their complete cooperation. It is now when we are down to this small hard core that remains that the hard work begins. It is the cattle out in the back country that will keep us from being clean for quite a while if we do not look out. Now that we have the best scheme of detection and adequate compensation it is possible for all people to participate. 
I have been associated with the eradication program since the very early 1930s when my own family was dairying. My family farmed one of the first 3 farms in Tasmania, I believe, to go into voluntary test and slaughter. I remember the days when, the program being voluntary, there was no compensation. I remember seeing about 80 per cent of our cows leaving the property at the beginning of the season. We had to carry on with a rather slender period ahead. I know what it is all about. I am glad that the system has changed and that compensation is now payable. I was also involved through the Agricultural Department in 1955-56 when the compulsory program was in full swing. I remember a time when in the area in which I lived over 3 000 cattle were destroyed in a month. I have seen the great hardship and the great losses that go with this. The greatest loss of all is the loss of a lifetime's breeding that goes with infestation of this sort. One of the last big losses in our area was a herd of Herefords which it was claimed had been pure in the same strain since the 1880s. Every one was destroyed. In spite of all these questions, the system is well worth while. It has to be encouraged and given every chance. 
Tasmania is provisionally clean in both tuberculosis and brucellosis. We look forward to capitalising on the advantages we hope that that gives. I have to give great credit to the Tasmanian Agricultural Department and to the directors and staff of that organisation who in very difficult times did a most difficult job very well and were able to sell the program so well to the farmers of the area that we have the result that we were promised in the 1930s. I commend to every State Government and to the Commonwealth Government that we get on and get the job finished. We are rapidly running out of time. We have no more than 10 years to be able to take our place where we belong at the head of the world cattle market. Do not let anybody underestimate the potential liability that hangs over us all the time. I commend the Bills to the House. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. When can the Tasmanians who sat for the amateur radio operator's certificate at an examination conducted by the Radio Regulatory and Advisory Branch on 19 February 1976, and who still have not received their examination results, expect to do so? The next examination is due to be held in August and those whom the results may show to have been unsuccessful are not able to recommence studies until the information comes to hand. Can these results be expedited? 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Of the applications received under the Defence Service Homes Act, or similar legislation, in the past five years how many applications were in each of the following categories: (a) World War I, (b) World War II, (c) Korea, (d) Vietnam, and (e) Permanent Services- 'Not War Zone'. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
How many applications for Defence Forces Homes Loans over the previous five years have been subject to second mortgages. 
For each year, what is the average amount of second mortgage finance obtained. 
For each year, what is the average rate of interest on second mortgage finance obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Of the applications received under the Defence Service Homes Act or similar legislation in the past five years how many applications were in each of the following categories, (a) totally and permanently incapacitated, (b) Service, and (c) other. 
I feel rather inadequate to follow such a complete and well presented statement as was produced by  Senator Baume. Senator Baume  stated the facts very clearly and thoroughly. There was only one item that he missed, and that was the complete summary of where the Liberal-National Country Party Government stands on the Medibank issue. I am very fortunate in that  Senator Colston  covered that completely for me.  His  summary of the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was the only thing that I needed to add to what  Senator Baume  had said. 
I am a little disturbed that, in my opinion, the problems that are likely to arise are far more in the mind than in the practice. I believe that if there is going to be any confusion and chaos it will be confusion and chaos that has been engendered. The general comments that have been passed are not likely to settle the issues down but are far more likely to make the whole issue become more emotive. There is always a certain amount of emotion when we start to talk about health or housing or employment. I think that we all have the same concept of health and the handling of it- we all expect to have the best of health and the best of health services. Medibank was quite a good concept but, like a lot of good theories, it requires good practice to see it through. We always have to deal with the human element. Wherever we have the human element we have openings being created and then jobs being created for people to fill those openings in ways that it would have been better if they had not been filled. 
Nobody from any party or from either House of Parliament would deny, in or out of Parliament, that changes are necessary now that the Medibank system has been going for the time that it has. When one considers the financial burdens that are being placed upon the country at large I believe it is evident that there is no future in having the country full of healthy people if the country is dying financially. I think that we have to take a pretty simplistic approach for those who do not understand the problem already, and point out that the country in any one year has only so much to spend. Once it is spent it is gone, and if we overspend we have to pay it back. If we spend it on one thing we cannot spend it on another. So it depends on government developing a system of priorities and ensuring that they can make the amount of money that they have to go around. 
I believe that I am in this place, and on this side of this place, because of the public's objections to the financial management of the country up to November last year. Changes are needed, and they have to be considered. But by and large there is wide acceptance of the proposed alterations that are before us. There are objections and there always will be. The genuine ones will certainly be considered. Most of them, though, are largely politically motivated. I am finding that the objections that we are getting that cannot be dealt with are designed either to build support for other points of view or to try to embarrass the Government in what it is doing now. We receive letters from people from time to time and we have people visiting us. Telegrams are sent to us. For instance, even today we received a telegram, which I shall read. This was addressed to B. R. Archer, Parliament House, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, and read as follows: 
People in Chisholm angry at destruction of Medibank. Demand your vote against any legislation that interferes with present system. 
It was signed 'Citizens of Chisholm'. Receiving a telegram like that is enough to make a person a bit upset at the time, because it is not the usual tenor of requests that electors are likely to make, particularly when one takes into account that the electorate of Chisholm is a strongly held Liberal seat it is rather unlikely that a spontaneous telegram like that would arrive from people living within an electorate that is strongly Liberal. We all get telegrams like this. If this telegram were to go to all members and senators it would cost $557.72; if it were to go only to the Liberals it would cost $367.92; or even if it were to go only to all Liberal senators it would cost $78.84. 
It is Arab money; that is the whole point. The telegram is based on an inaccuracy and is deliberately intended to mislead. It implies that it speaks for people for whom it does not speak. The most important thing about the telegram is that when I had it checked out I found not only that it was spurious in every respect but also that it was sent by a member of the Opposition in the Senate. As honourable senators opposite say, it is Arab money. But it is charged to a Department of Administrative Services telephone account by a member of this House. 
-It was  Senator Melzer. 
Honourable senators asked who it was. I had not intended to divulge who it was. When we start to look at the Medibank system and investigate it in a practical and feasible non-political way we realise that these changes had to be made. While things such as this telegram float around trying to inflame the situation, it is difficult for us to get a dispassionate and sensible look at the matter. The amendments that are being made to the system must be considered in the context of tax indexation, family benefits and allowances, and the effect on the family taxes both now and in the foreseeable future. 
It has to be considered also that the prime requirement of the Medibank system is welfare, and welfare must go to the places it is needed most. In this regard low income earners and those dependent on pensions still get the full benefits. There will be no change. Pensioners will receive the same concern that we give to other low income areas. I do not see why it is that the only people who seem to have any real doubts about what is proposed sit on my right. Everybody else who has seen this pamphlet finds it quite easy to understand and quite clear. I will make the pamphlet available as far and wide as I can in my area so that everybody will have the benefit of seeing what is involved. They can then make their own choice. 
We hear over and over again that Medibank is to be dismantled. Nothing of the sort will happen. We hear that people are to be deprived of Medibank. Nothing of the sort will happen. Like this telegram things which are deliberately untrue are pushed around. Perhaps I should say, if I am getting close to the line, that it is probably wilful misunderstanding. Information which is known to be untrue will do nothing towards achieving consideration of this matter in a reasonable, logical and non-politial manner. There is nothing about the legislation which is not completely in line with what the Government said before the election and has said since. We certainly have a responsible enough attitude to know that we cannot keep on spending money without it coming from somewhere. There is no free medicine. There never was. There is no free anything. There never was. If we can rationalise the matter and get it back to some reasonable plane we can get the Medibank system working hand in glove with the other scheme to the benefit of the whole of Australia. 
-In view of the fact that most of the time which was allocated to this debate has already been used I shall be brief. I agree with the previous  speaker. Senator Gietzelt,  on one point and that is that the dairy industry is a tragedy. But having listened to the rest of the honourable senator's manifesto 1 really could not find much to agree with. I could not agree with the collection of figures which were produced and which the honourable senator claimed represented the amount of money given to the rural industries. He included a figure which represented an advance to the Wool Corporation as if that money were going to the industry. That is deliberately untrue as the honourable senator well knows. The action in providing that sort of money with one hand and at the same time taking it away and multiplying it as it is taken away because of the results of inflation speaks for itself. 
The dairy industry can be looked at by some with all the advantages of hindsight. The previous  speaker  gave us a lot of good advice in relation to what he could have done 20 years ago. He did not give us one good piece of advice as to what he will do for the next 20 years. It is the next 20 years that we are concerned about. The industry has to face a rationalisation period now. It is doing that and it will do that with government assistance. In the past it has been very difficult to plan a long way ahead because circumstances change from year to year. Those of us who came into the Senate at the beginning of this session well know that at that time there was really not one piece of authoritative information available to us which was relevant in the circumstances of January 1976. What had been prepared, even as late as the middle of 1 975, was no longer relevant. This is the sort of speed at which the situations in markets change. 
Nobody at that stage foresaw what the price of skim milk powder would be today. Nobody can tell me what the price of skim milk powder will be at this time next year. Nobody can tell mc what the price of cheddar cheese will be. Nobody can foresee these things. At the time the last amount of money was put out to the industry world trends indicated that there would bc a good market. This was a product the market for which collapsed in 18 months. The $28m which was put out for dairy reconstruction did not reconstruct anybody. All that has done is to increase the debts of the industry by $28m. The problem of the dairy industry is that it has been through squeeze after squeeze spasmodically. It has kept on becoming more and more efficient. This drop in the number of farmers from 62 000 to 30 000 has, in itself, not solved the problem. While farms have been getting bigger and more efficient they have been keeping up production. The last lot of money which was injected into the industry only increased production by making people milk more cows. Right through it has been a struggle for viability. As farmers have increased their liabilities they have increased their personal work and, at the same time, suffered falling returns. 
At meetings in Victoria in the last week there have been 20 000 of the farming community and in Tasmania they have had 2000-odd. This figure represents nearly 60 per cent of the dairy industry of Australia. All these people were at the meetings because they had been beaten by inflation. The farmer is not responsible for inflation. He is not responsible for the international politics which are involved. But he is the victim. The problems which are facing the dairy farmer are of national origin. The farmers need national support. They will need national support while the adjustments take place. The industry has been having many of these meetings. It has undertaken that it will voluntarily reduce production. It has voluntarily undertaken to improve the efficiency of the industry, particularly at manufacturing levels. It has undertaken that no new dairy licences will be issued for the present. 
In spite of all this, whatever happens will not happen overnight. Changes will need to be made. It is not a case of saying we will close one factory and keep another one going, or anything of that sort, because so many of the rural communities depend very heavily on the involvement of the industry. The markets generally will have to be reassessed. I believe that this is where the Government must see about assisting with the creation of markets in new areas overseas and in new areas in Australia. We have to sponsor and to assist new products. I believe that we have to make every effort to form a proper trading agreement with New Zealand. Most of all, I think we have to settle down and to try to refinance the dairy industry which has put itself out on all sorts of long term, short term and mixed finance. When a financial squeeze hits an industry of this sort it immediately hits the younger groups and the more enterprising groups. Usually it leaves in the industry the older, hard core and the less efficient. This is where we have to try to make every effort to keep rationalisation ahead of us and to make sure that we keep the industry efficient both in the long and short term. The Bills provide for a very short term operation. They will do nothing to put the industry right but they will get us over the period immediately ahead. With that in mind, I support the Bills. I am still waiting for the results that will come from a proper, thorough in-depth investigation so that we can see how we can both keep the industry alive today and keep it viable so that as we reorganise for the future it will be able to prosper again. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Aboriginal Legal Aid officers are there in Tasmania. 
What items of office equipment have been provided for each of them. 
What is the total budgeted cost for the running and maintenance of each office in the present budgetary period. 
How many (a) professional staff, and (b) other staff, are employed in each office. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
How many applications have been received for Government assistance with expenditure incurred in the holding of international conferences in Australia in each of 1974, 1975 and 1976. 
2 ) From whom were they received. 
3 ) How much money was applied for in each case. 
How many and which ones were successful. 
What amount was granted in each case referred to in (3). 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. What action can the Government take that will obtain the release of urgent cargo on the  Australian Trader,  which has been tied up by the seamen's union at Bell Bay since late July? What redress have the owners of the cargo from the Australian National Line or the unions involved? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I have previously raised the matter of the establishment of an Australian register of shipping. Can the Minister advise whether there has been any recent progress in the matter and whether there is any likelihood of such an establishment. If there is, when will that occur? 
I rise to support the Budget. When entering this chamber I recognised the responsibility I had to Tasmania, particularly to items of prime concern to Tasmania. These were items in which I was involved and of which I had some knowledge and in which I had some interest. I took into account the interest and involvement of other members of the Tasmanian Senate team. I shall deal with some of these now in the context of the whole Austraiian economy and in the state of the country both sociologically and economically. I hope I am not too late to rescue some of those who believe that they can have everything they want and that somebody else will pay. I believe that that was never so, that it never can be and that it is certainly not so now. I support the Budget in its efforts to restore reality where it is needed, generosity and compassion where they should be, and sanity in some of the areas of complete and total fantasy. I trust there will be some restoration of relativity between money and effort and that once again it will be recognised that those who want to save Australia from the mess it is in will have to work again. Those who do not wish to work will be the ones who are deliberately trying to destroy Australia as we know it now. 
As a Tasmanian representative I would like to comment particularly on some of the items which I consider of importance to Tasmania. We have to remember that Tasmania regrettably has the lowest average income and the lowest net growth rate of any State in Australia. It had the highest unemployment rate before New South Wales took on a Labor Government and has the highest drain of young people of any State in Australia. During the life of its last elected Government, 7 members have resigned, including a Premier, a  Deputy  Premier and 3 other Cabinet Ministers, and we are now left with the rump only. The Premier was a very greatly respected man and we are all pleased to see that he has now been appointed to the position of  Chairman  of the States Grants Commission. The  Deputy  Premier, a former Labor senator, we are also pleased to see has landed a job leading a committee of inquiry. However, what we are left with is a group that knows absolutely nothing about money. As Tasmanians we are desparate. It was only the Christmas before last that we could not pay the teachers their holiday pay, but the next Christmas, having cried poverty all through the year, we finished with $ 1 7.4m in the kitty that we did not know was there to spend. Of this sum, $4.1m was a straight out Budget surplus which we did not know about till a month before the end of the year and $ 1 3.3m came from loans that simply were not used. With industry running down and unemployment rising all we were trying to do apparently was engineer a situation in the books, but we have nobody who can read the books. Still, one day we will put Tasmania back on the map. 
I turn now to transport. Tasmania is transport. Freight equalisation is the greatest single piece of legislation that Tasmania has ever had. It will be of tremendous assistance and will do a lot to right a major disadvantage that Tasmania has always suffered. Tasmania suffers all the vagaries of transport and whether it is traffic controllers, hostesses or pilots in the air, pantrymen, seaman or engineers at sea or the Transport Workers Union or waterside workers on the ground, the results are the same- one out all out, and Tasmania is cut off. I should make reference to the situation that exists in relation to the  Australian Trader  today. The  Australian Trader  has been tied up at Bell Bay since 29 July. On board there are several containers of cargo for Tasmanian users and they have been in the hold since that date. They are now being held as ransom by this group of two bob bandits that has control of the ship. It has got to the stage where it is putting workers out of work and has created a lot of expense and inconvenience, but nothing is being done to get the results we want. For instance, there is an engineer who is waiting on a press held in the ship. There is a factory which cannot start operations because the doors for the factory are in the ship. There is a baker who has bread ingredients in the ship. There is a bank with a container of stationery on board. Retailers are waiting for cargo that is on board. There are also incoming manufacturer items and consumer goods. 
We want to get goods off the island, goods that are manufactured and items of primary production. We are only as good as the reliability of our service, but our reliability is being shot to pieces all the time. It is a matter of complete irresponsibility and weak State government. Equalisation is a big help and I do not know that there is any Tasmanian who would not concede that it has the advantages it is claimed to have, but it does not produce the goods. It does not get the freight unloaded. I was interested to read in the Press that we have support in all sorts of places and that if you want to be loved go to Tasmania. A certain modest member in another place felt that that was so. When one looks at what he says are the advantages of Tasmania one is entitled also to consider what disadvantages there are. There are problems in the shipping industry over the demarcation issue. As honourable senators will know, there are over 1500 containers on the wharf in Sydney. People are waiting for what is in them but nobody intends to move them at the moment. Where does this lead for an island state which is totally dependent on shipping? At least it is not all Tasmania 's problem. We do worry about it but I am glad to see that it worries other people as well sometimes. In today's  Australian  there was a headline 'Transport Men Driving Hawke to Despair'. I feel that we are getting somewhere at last. They do not seem to have worried him very much until now and as a Tasmanian I certainly hope that he worries and worries until he does something about it. 
Taking the shipping problems into account and adding to them the problems created by the air traffic controllers, this has not been a very good week for Tasmania. Air transport is not just a pleasant and convenient way of travelling interstate; it is an absolutely necessity. It is also a most important way of moving freight. The costs are higher but mostly it is more reliable. The 2 major airlines have done a very good job in keeping Tasmania as viable as it has been but I would like to mention also the terrific contribution that has been made over the years by Brain and Brown Airfreighters Pty Ltd as carriers and Ipec as pioneers in the door to door parcel freight and refer to what they have done to help get Tasmania out of the really deplorable condition it was in when it was relying on a most unsatisfactory shipping service. 
Other States have their problems with road and rail transport. Tasmania hived off its railways last year. I saw in the notes of the Australian National Railways that after 30 years of abject neglect it would now cost $30m to put Tasmania's railways back into a reasonable working condition. The railways were disposed of in haste and in a mood of sheer desperation by the Premier under an agreement that I believe would be as unfavourable as any ever entered into between the Commonwealth and any State in Australia. One has only to look at the agreements for the sale of railways between Tasmania and the Commonwealth and South Australia and the Commonwealth to see what I mean. The main concern was to get rid of it and to get rid of it quickly at any cost. The situation has been much the same with Tasmanian ships but I will say no more about that. It is not one of the subjects that we talk about very much. 
While freight assistance is a big help to every Tasmanian, when speaking of ships I suppose we also have to talk about the bridge. We have the Hobart bridge now approaching a repairable state and we are very fortunate that the Commonwealth has agreed to continue funding it. However, I have to add that while we appreciate the funding, on the documents that I have seen there was definitely no agreement between the Commonwealth and the State on what the funding was to be. So we greatly appreciate what the Commonwealth is doing. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
I would like to make a few remarks about the rural industry. As we are all aware the rural industry in Australia is amongst the most efficient rural industries in the world. It is a very determined industry but at the moment it is very dispirited. Inflation has undermined its trade and extra productivity can no longer offset the increase in costs. The gap between production costs and market returns is widening and there is no room to move. Every effort has to be made, however, to work in greater co-operation in matters such as machinery sharing, experimentation, better extension services, concentration on improving quality, and the best use of natural resources, climates and conditions. An increase in funding for research and marketing is necessary. 
Income stabilisation to the rural community is now far more desirable than product subsidy. Every effort has to be made at this stage to preserve the family farm. Poverty in rural areas is increasing all the time but the difference between the poverty of today and the poverty of the 1930s is that in those days the whole community was poor and everybody had no money, but now it is only poverty in the rural areas which really shows. I would like to quote a typical case of a young farmer whom I saw last week and whom I endeavoured to assist in obtaining unemployment relief. This man and his father had a 100-acre property and  2lh  years ago they decided to expand. The market at that time looked quite good. They were getting 70c a lb for their butterfat and about $200 a head for their chopper cattle. They raised about $100,000 to buy an  additional 200 acres  of land. All that happened was that the price of their chopper cattle dropped to about $40 a head and the price of butterfat dropped to 50c a lb. As a result they have been left with a debt of $100,000 and an income that will not support the debt. The father is receiving sickness benefits and the son, in addition to trying to milk 100 cows a day, has applied for outside work. It is very difficult for families like this ever to achieve what they started out to do. 
I went to a meeting last week at a country hall which was filled by farmers. The farmers had travelled up to 100 miles to attend the meeting. All of them are in dire trouble and all are victims of inflation. They are sitting back now watching the slow destruction of their asset and their way of life. Some of them are working at two or three jobs and travel long distances to obtain work. As I said, they are just watching their asset decline. They are young keen men who want to work and who are capable of work. Their costs are increasing, their returns are decreasing and their market is lessening and tightening. The unemployment benefits received by some farmers are certainly appreciated. But these benefits are not wanted and they are not the answer. These men are hard working and efficient. 
Unfortunately the Commonwealth Employment Service is finding that people who are looking for workers will pick farmers ahead of others who, we might say in some cases, are work shy. Farmers have the reputation of being able to work. Anyone who is looking for a man to work for wages will first go for the farmer who is on relief. We should bear in mind that farmers who are not chosen for work are able to stay at home and keep their farms in order. I think this situation is most unfortunate. I believe that the country should require those who are not working at all to take a job ahead of a farmer who, if employed, would be asked to work a 40-hour week in addition to milking cows and keeping his property in order. 
Farmers are in the same position as people in any other industry at the moment where productivity and wages must be related. The problem is huge and a wide range of rural industry is affected by it. We are finding now that lower cost countries are killing our markets and we are helping them by driving our prices up all the time. We are all looking forward to the  Sir John  Crawford's Industries Assistance Commission report which is due to be released next week. We hope that the plans in the report will go a long way towards restructuring the industry and will show the Government a lead in the sort of changes that will be necessary and the sort of aids that will be required. 
I am very pleased with the wide range of items covered in the Budget in the field of education. I would like to mention a couple of aspects from this wide field. I want to see whatever help is possible to go to those who need help most- the handicapped people. Too often we have found that handicapped people are put into old buildings and given old equipment when they are the most needy group and should receive the best possible assistance that they can get. I have very great admiration for people who work amongst the handicapped and I believe that they too should receive the best of equipment and the best of premises. The problem goes beyond that. There are problems when the handicapped finish formal schooling and they need to have an occupation. It is necessary for hostels and workshops and so on to be made available to these people. I think we have to do a lot more for them. However, I have found that many people who are working in this area are not fully aware of what assistance is available from either State or Federal government. I believe it is probably our duty to make sure that they are aware of what is available and to see that funds allocated for this purpose are used as advantageously as possible. 
I believe that in many cases we have built up many fallacies in respect of higher education and in fact most areas of education. We went through a phase a few years ago when it was believed that if one did not have a university education one did not count at all. But I believe that we have to look at higher education generally and we have to ask: 'Does it provide a livelihood; does it provide fulfilment for the people engaged in it; and does it give them satisfaction?' So often all that people who go on to higher education wind up with is a document on the wall. I think it is more important that we should provide people with a means to an occupation which will give them fulfilment and a livelihood. I believe that we have to consider these aspects and if at all possible direct our efforts towards achieving this objective. 
A few years ago it was believed that if one did not pass exams one went to technical college. The view was held that if one was not good enough for university one went to a college of advanced education. I hope that both of these concepts are now well and truly behind us. I hope that all of these institutions will be equally regarded and that the people who go through them will also be equally regarded. It was long said that education was a process produced by academics to develop academics. There are still areas in which this is true. Fortunately, I believe that they are declining because educated people are just as necessary on the outside as on the inside. The big fields for employment opportunities even now are in the areas where greater education is needed. If we examine a list of persons unemployed, we find generally that those with the least education are the first on that list. 
I think that we have to use the funds that are available in the Budget to get the best results possible from apprenticeship training. We should encourage apprentices through the National Employment and Training scheme. We should try to fill some of the vacancies that currently exist in spite of the high level of unemployment. We have to try to get the young people to become work oriented when they leave school because once they cease learning and cease training it is difficult to get them back into the work force. I was pleased to see that the expenditure for technical education has increased by $20. 4m; university education by $69.2m; and colleges of advanced education by $7 1.6m. In examining these figures, I was interested to find that the cost per student per annum is now $4,555 at universities and $4,428 per head at colleges of advanced education. 
I turn to housing. Housing policies have largely been developments of habit over a period of years. They have been put together in a piecemeal way. On examining the position, I think all honourable senators would agree that the expenditure on housing is not producing the optimum result in houses. There are too many agencies in the public sector and they are insufficiently integrated. I feel sure that all honourable senators would agree that housing is probably the most practical topic about which we could talk. It is also the most confused of any topic because of overtheorising. There is always a lot of disparaging of developers but it is the developers who very much control the property market and the future of so many up and coming Australians. Everything that is being done now is slowing down the rate of development. All the requirements which have to be met before land is put on the market take so long and cost so much money. Every time there is a new subdivision the requirements are higher than they were earlier. I am not against services being provided- do not get me wrong- but I think that the gold-plated services that are now being required are an unnecessary extravagance when it is houses we need. By the time we add the cost of all the services, the interest on the services and the delays- in many cases it takes up to two or three years to get a block of land from its raw state into a state acceptable for sale- it is making land very expensive. I notice today, for instance, that in Victoria the price of an average block of land is about $17,250. In spite of this I have been told by many people that developers are making huge profits. This again is another total fallacy because I think land development is a high risk operation. It is fraught with all sons of hazards and problems. One only has to look through the list of bankruptcies to see the companies and the individuals listed there who appear there because they have been involved in land development. The Land Commission was going to be the answer to many of these problems but it has not worked out that way. The Land Commission will never be the answer to lowering the price of land. For a start, the Land Commission ties up huge amounts of money which would be far better put into housing than being buried in land. We have to get the money moving in both the public and private sectors. We have to develop schemes that will get money moving. We have to be able to provide more houses so that people can have houses of their own, either to rent or to buy. We have to do something about overcoming the slow, ponderous and expensive systems which are a feature of the housing industry. I was very pleased to note that we now have a 3-year scheme operating for aged persons homes. It gives to people who are dong this very excellent work the opportunity to plan ahead. In many instances we find that welfare housing is going to non-welfare cases. I think that we have to make sure that those who have a need for houses are allocated houses. We also need to provide inducements for rental housing. We have to make sure that we utilise the funds in this area to the maximum. We need to speed up the process as best we can. 
I should like briefly to refer to trade. Because of its natural resources and geographical location, Australia is fundamentally a trading nation. We have reached the stage now where, because of our pricing structure, every country can sell to us but we find it very difficult to sell goods to other countries. Let us subject our industries to intense competition. In 1973, 13 industries applied to the Department of Industry and Commerce for assistance. This rose to 3 1 industries in 1974 and 71 industries in 1975. Our trade blew up with the wages explosion. Australian wages increased by 162 per cent between 1968 and 1976 compared with 64 per cent in the United States of America. In 1974 alone, wages in Australia increased by 35 per cent whereas the average increase in the Organisation for Economic and Co-operation Development countries was 15 per cent. Honourable senators will realise how difficult it is to maintain a market whilst we have these sorts of rises which are greater than those experienced by countries with which we trade. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question. As for all practical purposes Tasmania by continued effort over many years has achieved the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis from all Tasmanian cattle- I add that it is the only Australian State to do so- is it the intention of" the Government to relieve Tasmanian cattle producers of the $ 1 a head levy for the eradication of these diseases? If so, when? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What has been the total annual expenditure of the Australian Bureau of Statistics in each of the years 1965 to 1975 inclusive. 
What has been the number of First, Second, Third and Fourth Division staff employed in the Bureau in each of the years from 1965 to 1975 inclusive. 
How many temporary staff have been employed by the Bureau in connection with each of the last three Censuses, and what has been the total spent on salaries for such temporary staff in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Census forms were distributed for completion in connection with the 1 976 Census. 
How many Census forms were collected. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the product being advertised as New Zealand Colby cheese being imported inside or outside the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement cheddar quota? At what price is it entering Australia? What quantity has been brought in in the last 3 months? 
I ask a question of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Has the Minister seen news sheets of the Local Government Association of New South 
Wales indicating disquiet at the signs coming through of the New South Wales Government's apparent intention to weaken the role and stature of local government? If so, how do these actions fit into the Government's federalism policy? 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that copies of the daily  Hansard  in recent months have been arriving later than was the case earlier this year? Does the Minister agree that the speedy provision of  Hansard  is important in ensuring that honourable senators are able to carry out their parliamentary duties? Will he endeavour to arrange that the supply of  Hansard  is made earlier than has been the case recently? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister advise the estimated decline in production in the dairy industry over the last 12 months? Can he say whether it is currently believed to be at the level required for stabilising? Can the Minister also say whether it is anticipated that the new underwritten price of approximately 60c may be achieved on normal market expectations? Are there any forward plans for the period after 3 1 December 1 976? 
I begin my speech in a depressed mood because I really believe that  Senator Gietzelt  is trying to believe what he said. I regret that during the course of this debate no Labor senator from Tasmania has spoken. Therefore, I will endeavour as best I can to cover the situation that exists in Tasmania. I will be brief. I will not repeat all the unemployment figures that have been related to the Senate tonight. I think all honourable senators are familiar with those figures and can use them in whatever way they desire. We are all aware of the results of inflation. There is no doubt that nobody in his right mind wants the present economic situation. There is nobody in his right mind who will not do anything possible to try to remedy the current economic situation. 
Honourable senators may recall the comments I made a couple of weeks ago about the situation in Tasmania. I do not intend to repeat what I said except to say again that Tasmania is a great place even though it has become the stagnation State of Australia. Tasmania has the lowest wage rate of any State. It has the highest unemployment rate and, I regret to say, the highest level of what is known as the brain drain of any State in Australia. The Tasmanian economy has been built on 2 main things: Labour intensive operations and the export market. It depends greatly on such products as textiles, paper, minerals, aluminium, wood products, dairy products, confectionary, wool, meat, apples, pears, and small fruits. All these items have been the basis of the Tasmanian economy for more than 100 years. All those items have been affected by what has happened in the last few years and by what has been accelerated particularly in the last three or four years. They depend very heavily on a solid, steady and reliable labour force and on a steady, reasonable and reliable cost structures. In both these fields these industries have suffered badly. They are all in trouble because their costs exceed their returns. Their prosperity will only be restored when productivity and costs can again be made to match. We all enjoy high wages and the things that they bring. But can high wages be justified by productivity? 
The Tasmanian Government has done little for its State. I regret that this situation has obtained for many years and has been declining slowly. I need not remind honourable senators that these were years when a Labor government was in office. Can we pay the cost of these high wages and high benefits? What are they and what is a benefit? Productivity and cost must go together in any form of business. The main cost in business is generally wages. When wages get too high, machinery takes over. This is not a new trend. It has been happening for many years but it happens at an accelerated rate when wage demands get ahead of productivity. In this regard, I again quote the many people who now are claiming to have said that one man's rise is another man's job. That is very true. It is a complete and absolute truism in every way. Any business can stand just so much cost. It is equally true to say that the more wages per person, the fewer persons per wage. Restraint in any form has been scoffed at by those who are pledged to see that the economy does not recover. Restraint is well understood by the people who wish to see the return of a sound and prosperous country. 
To understand the situation, one has to be aware of the causes of it. But can we turn back the situation? Can we unwind and go back to where we were? I do not think that any of us would want to do that or would be prepared to do that. In this economy now we enjoy a rate of pay equal to the highest in the world- a higher proportion of women is working, there is a high standard of minimum pay rates and there is equal pay for women and so on. All these things are part of the system. The technological changes are here to stay. But they have accelerated and we must live with this. We have to fit ourselves around the changes that exist. I realise that this is going to take extra consideration of special training, special education and special considerations generally. The whole system from here on must be designed again to increase productivity on the amount of wages that are paid. Otherwise there will be no improvement. 
Right now we have priced ourselves out of our markets. I wonder whether any of us really believes that other countries who have worked hard to stabilise their economies should be called upon to subsidise our folly. We are a trading nation. We have simply run out of trading partners. I certainly, like everybody else, do not want to think about, see or even consider such a thing as a wage reduction. But I do want to see control of the demands for wages so that people will consider what they are paying to get the increase that they seek. The community at large very much accepts this situation and I do not disagree with them. But the community at large also has to consider the effects that go with their demands. The community and the Government go together in this; one cannot achieve anything without the other. It is very pleasing to me and I presume to other honourable senators to have received a lot of suggestions from individuals and organisations who are concerned about the situation and who have offered a wide variety of alternative suggestions as to things that may assist in gearing up training or employment or in reducing costs or stabilising production and so on. But when we take all this into account we again have to consider the costs. 
Let us look at what has happened in the areas which are particularly involved with women, with juveniles, with migrants, with the handicapped and with the Aborigines in particular. All of this group received great benefits from increased wages while they lasted but really all that the new wage package has done is to put a far too high proportion of them out of work. I think all these people are pleased with the new scale of unemployment benefits but I think that most of them would prefer an economic wage to watching others work. Of course, a few anomalies arise from time to time. I recently read in an article published by one of the major newspapers that there are still more people in Australia with 2 jobs than there are with none and 20 per cent to 25 per cent of these represent 3 job families. Again, I do not blame these people. I feel that it is quite reasonable that people should have the opportunity to improve themselves if they wish. But there are social consequences that go with it and provided we accept these we accept the situation. 
We have to consider the substantial proportion of the work force that now comprises working women.  Senator Harradine  covered this very well. These women do this by individual choice and they take the individual consequences. Many of them choose to go to work at the expense of having their daughters at home. This is the way it is. In Tasmania as well a lot of women have been in employment for many years. Tasmania is a State where there has been high female employment. Unfortunately, the women employed there have suffered very greatly in the present down turn. 
Cases are often quoted of employment opportunities that cannot be filled. I should like to quote 2 such cases just to show what can happen. An employer in Tasmania required an unqualified junior. He rang the Commonwealth Employment Service which sent him one young lad who was not suitable. He rang the CES and advised that he was not suitable. He received no replacement so he rang again and the CES said that it had nobody who would be suitable. The gentleman then looked for an employee himself. He advertised in the main Tasmanian paper on 3 consecutive days before he had one junior applicant. He put on the first boy who turned up but, with all the people that we hear are available for work, it took 3 days and the full resources of the Commonwealth Employment Service to produce one. 
It was unskilled labour, working behind a counter. In an isolated area of Tasmania a company required 40 employees. The employment officer of this particular company went to the 3 major employment centres in northern Tasmania and interviewed 70 people with a view to engaging 40 people. He finally appointed 30 of these people during the week to start work on the following Monday. Three turned up. 
The thought of work probably did. I have been involved and concerned with poverty areas for many years. I think that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  covered the Henderson report questions very well. But we have to consider the fact that there are these people to whom  Senator Wheldon  refers more charitably than  Senator McLaren  as 'welfare professionals'. There are very few of these but we do not run the system for them. I think that those who are in genuine need should be protected from them. I think that if people are able to work they should work. The situation is bad but we have to think back and see how much worse it would still be if we had the former Government. Too many people, both here and outside, are crying the situation down and too many are hoping that the Government's actions will not succeed. There has been improvement and we shall all work on it. We have to consider, though, that this will probably need education and we have to get at it very quickly. There are certain pre-apprenticeship requirements. We have this 40-hour week syndrome. I feel that 40-hour week could well be divided into half day jobs amongst people who need work. Much thought and concern is going into this proposition. It is still substantially a matter of attitude. I think that we have basically covered the points surrounding this issue. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator not  a Minister of the Crown may be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the Table; such Order may be made without Notice immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of the  Senator who  has quoted therefrom. 
It was obvious that a document was being read. I hear  Senator Baume  offering advice to  Senator Archer. 

 Senator Baume- No. I was interjecting.  Senator Brown  interjects on everybody all the time. 
That the document quoted from by  Senator Archer  be laid on the table of the Senate. 
I did not have any document with me. 
No. 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator not  a Minister of the Crown may be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the Table . . . 
Reference is made to the tabling of a document. No document was quoted from. Therefore, no purpose is served by pursuing the matter of tabling. A motion is now before the Chair, moved by  Senator Brown  and seconded by  Senator Georges.  In the light of what I have just said,  Senator Brown,  do you withdraw your motion or do you desire to persist with it? 
That the motion  (Senator Brown's)  be agreed to. 

<graphic href="069232197610063_47_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069232197610063_47_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069232197610063_47_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the negative. 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
-Can the Minister for Science advise what research is being carried out, either in Australia or overseas, to improve the spreadability of butter, either with or without additives? Can the Minister advise also when such improved product may be expected to be available on the market? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, by reminding him that the Industries Assistance Commission report on the dairy industry recommends that dairy farmers reduce production as a means of increasing the domestic market price and therefore the return to the farmers. If farmers make such a reduction in production to achieve the results outlined in the report, what action will the Government take to protect the dairy industry from the import of low cost production from other countries whose dairy industries could take advantage of a higher Australian domestic price? Can the Minister give an undertaking that the dumping of other countries' dairy products in Australia wil not occur? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware of the drastic drop in the completion figures for multiple unit dwellings in the private sector between 1973-74 and 1975-76 from 41 576 to 26 512 as a result of the inability of owners to achieve a reasonable rental return? Will the Government take this position into account and again consider proposals such as an investment allowance to encourage the construction of rental housing in order to regenerate the building industry and provide an increase in rental housing which is the highest housing need in Australia at the present time? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister been made aware that the latest export marketing proposals put forward by the Australian Meat Board are so unpopular that it has been suggested that some members of the Board will boycott today's 
Board meeting? Is he aware of the great concern of the whole of the meat industry at the failure to produce a simple and workable scheme for the new season, and the uncertainty being created at a critical time with adverse effect on livestock prices and industry employment? How seriously does the Government see the position? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I remind the Minister of the dairy products underwriting scheme which provides $1,100 per tonne for butter and $750 per tonne for cheese. This scheme has been greatly appreciated by the dairy industry at large but shows up a differential between factories producing butter and skim milk powder on the one hand and cheese or full cream powder respectively on the other. Can the Minister advise whether these differences which give a substantial variation in returns to producers are intentional? If so, what is the reason? If not, what steps are being taken to regularise the relativity of the underwriting? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry advise what steps have been taken to check the allegations made by the Canadian Minister for Agriculture that Australia is currently selling meat to Canada at prices unacceptably below the prices applicable to the United States? Should the allegations be correct, what action can be taken by the Government or the Australian Meat Board against those exporters who would prejudice this very valuable market? If they are not correct, what steps does the Minister intend taking to have the Canadian Government substantiate or retract the statements and, if necessary, name the true reason for its actions? Finally, what steps are proposed to renegotiate the export arrangements to the levels applicable until yesterday. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the latest home building figures for the month of September which were released yesterday and which show an improvement of 1 1 per cent on the commencement figures for September 1975? Does the Minister see this as an indication of the start of a home building recovery? Is he able to say whether this apparent trend has continued into October? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Prime Minister who is the Minister responsible for the Arts. As one who has for many years had an interest in the performing arts, I am greatly concerned that  Mr John  Winther. the General Manager of the Australian Opera Company, is reported to have declined to co-operate with the Industries Assistance Commission in its present inquiry. Does the Minister share my concern that this attitude could prejudice the company of which  Mr VVinther  is General Manager and could be against the interests of those who derive enjoyment from it or who engage in it? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the part played by the organisation known as For Those Who Have Less in obtaining cattle, usually good dairy cattle, to send to the Indian sub-continent where they are being introduced into the local scene to increase milk production with a view to fighting infant starvation in particular? Does the Minister acknowledge that Australia currently has a large surplus of suitable young dairy cattle that will never be required for the Australian industry? Will the Government, as part of its foreign aid program, be prepared to consider making an allocation under the next appropriation to assist in the purchase, marshalling and transport involved? 
-Can the Minister for Education define the terms 'tertiary' and 'postsecondary' as they apply to entitlements and allowances under various aspects of the education legislation? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. In view of the announcement that major changes will be made to the trade agreement between Australia and New Zealand by further progress towards free trade, can the Minister advise what steps will be taken to ensure that those primary industries affected by the present New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement will not be sacrificed in the future changes? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. What is reported as 'a wave of industrial action sweeping through the shipping industry' is causing much concern to both exporters and importers operating throughout Australia. Can the Minister advise whether there is a common cause of the current problem, whether any particular steps are being taken to get the ships moving and whether the trade losses by way of added costs and loss of markets have been quantified? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: When can it be expected that livestock from the United Kingdom and Ireland can be imported directly into Australia? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry advise whether he is aware of any developments that may have taken place today concerning negotiations with Japan on meat export quotas? If not, when may some developments be expected? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, concerns the importance of the Senate in the legislative process of Australia and particularly as it relates to the less populous States. As the maintenance of the Senate is something that I would expect all members of this chamber to defend strenuously, can the Minister advise what effect there would be, particularly on Tasmania, if the Senate were abolished as is proposed by the so-called Bowen constitution? 
-For 40 minutes I have listened to a discourse on how to socialise and ruin the housing industry of Australia. We have been through everything from agriculture, elections and devaluations to the arbitration courts. We are very strong on socialism; we are very weak on housing. If the previous  speaker, Senator Gietzelt,  had any real knowledge of either the public sector or the private sector we might have got somewhere. The whole question of the utilisation of funds, the waste, the efficiency and the inefficiency of the utilisation of funds is apparent in anything when one starts to talk on housing. 
I support the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1976, which provides $375m for 1976-77 and $187.5m for the first half of 1977-78. I agree with the previous  speaker  on one point; that is, that the specific purpose of the Bill is to provide welfare housing. Particularly over the last few years, this is where the housing situation has broken down worst. One area that has been generally misunderstood, deliberately in some cases, is that the legislation makes specific mention of the fact that if special circumstances in a State warrant it amounts in excess of 30 per cent may be advanced to home builders. Some States have said that 30 per cent shall be the maximum and 20 per cent the minimum, but the figure can be considerably more than 30 per cent. Of course the more that is put out in that way the more houses it builds. If one wants to stop houses being built one reduces the figure to 20 per cent and sticks to that as closely as possible. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide money for those who are unable to house themselves and at the same time to encourage those who, with encouragement, can do something for themselves. In the public sector housing insufficient priority is given to the old, the large family groups, the low income groups and the desertees- those who are unable to cope. Far too often money is going to those with lesser needs and to those who, with help, could help themselves. A friend of mine, who is a former Minister for Housing in Tasmania, used to get upset about the fact that between where he lived and the Hobart Airport, to which he used to travel at times, he went past a whole row of government homes, each of which had either a boat or a caravan, or both, parked outside at the expense of the people who could not afford housing. 
The main weaknesses with the system are that it does not cope with the greatest needs and that once an advantage is given to someone the advantage remains. It becomes a disincentive for people to do anything for themselves. It takes no account of peoples' changing circumstances. The more this happens the more it is at the expense of those who are in need. Due allowance is not made for improving circumstances, for working couples or for the ordinary income increase. As I said, this always works at the expense of those who are in real need. 
The public sector, it was apparently imagined, could be geared to take over from the private sector, whereas in fact the reverse can be the only system to work. Public sector funding can operate only to fill up gaps that there may be in the private sector. When we consider the needy the whole principle must be produced around the ability to pay. lt has to be geared to that. To do this properly it has to be based on household income. I believe that there should be a system in which annual revisions or annual scrutiny of the welfare system should be made. Of course, this is where the voucher system would come in. There is no doubt that the voucher system will be the most outstanding advance in housing assistance in the post-war period. It will be of far greater benefit than housing loans insurance, and that was the only other thing of any major significance. It is simple, it is flexible, it is practical, and everybody who has anything to do with housing is in complete agreement with that. I noticed that a lecturer in town and country planning got space in the  National Times  a few weeks ago, but I would rather take my advice on housing from housing people. There are plenty of people who would dearly love to see it not work, but I can assure them here and now that it will work because it is simple, it is practical, and it is flexible. It can be permanent, it can be temporary, it can be transferable. I personally look forward very much to the pilot scheme that is to operate in Melbourne, Sydney and Hobart, which will cover a cross-section of people who have genuine need. 
I see the voucher system as having a very wide application in all sorts of welfare areas, and I think it can be clearly demonstrated that in many cases the voucher system is often better than money. Its use can be directed to the point of greatest need. For instance, in the use of deserted wives it can be looked to directly. In many cases money can be spent on items other than accommodation. The degree of assistance can be varied at all times according to changing circumstances and it can be gauged according to need. I believe that it can be extended into all fields of need by all departments providing welfare assistance of any sort, and I hope that it will not be long before it is extended into the field of home purchase. I think that there would be plenty of applications there. Far from failing to succeed, I think I can assure all honourable senators that it will succeed and will turn out to be very much a part of general Commonwealth-State welfare arrangements. I think it can be carried down through many of the civic and welfare groups which are looking to the care of people. 
If we have to look for the biggest problem in housing of this sort, it is the problem that help is going to those who do not need it most. In general use, it is a case of getting money going again. The first suggestion I would make in relation to this financing system is that we encourage occupant purchasing and provide some inducement to get money back into circulation. If houses were sold at valuation there would be no loss to the Government and there would be an immediate turnover of funds, which would then go towards providing more houses for more people in need. We could go a long way towards providing for more private sector involvement, which at present is unattractive because returns are insufficient to pay the interest, but the public sector cannot provide the necessary funds. Therefore, my second suggestion is that we introduce a system of, say, a 5-year reducing investment allowance on all rental housing so that a reasonable return can be provided to people prepared to build housing for the general rental market. 
As far as the aged and the handicapped are concerned, certainly more help is needed, and the social requirements of the day demand it. But money being spent now is not producing the optimum return. The community is happy to contribute and will contribute if given the opportunity, and money which is currently being spent by the Commonwealth through the States on welfare housing would produce a lot more if it were taken out of the Government's hands and used as a subsidy, perhaps through vouchers or some other system. So my third suggestion is that as far as possible funds should be directed to community and welfare groups and government involvement reduced. I believe that in that way a lot more units would be provided. 
Research that is being carried out is helping. The reports of the Henderson inquiry and the Indicative Planning Council in particular have come up with a lot of very valuable material which will be used for some years as the basis of what is going to happen. I think that these reports will become handbooks, but we must not let them gather dust on the shelves. Changes are being made all the time and we will need to keep abreast of them, with revisions being made at all times. We must continue to monitor the changing needs, the changing social questions, even what might be called the fashions in housing, and the income levels of the community at large. I believe that the States should have the major part of the right to determine what is going to happen with the money to be spent in the States. Some of them will spend it wisely, some of them will spend it unwisely. Hopefully, if the States do well they will retail their positions and if they do badly the voters will be discriminating enough to make the choice. 
In Tasmania at present we have the advantage of being able to look at the housing policies for this sector of both the major parties. The Tasmanian Government has just realised that there is a private sector and that there is such a thing as home ownership. Having proceeded systematically to abolish it over the last few years- and being a government of long standing it has had long standing policies. What it is proposing at the moment is a lot different from the performance it has produced, and reference to the facts would indicate what I mean. According to the 1973-74 housing agreement schedules, Tasmania has 20 per cent of available funds going to home builders. That is the lowest percentage of any State. The average is 32.5 per cent, and the figure rises at its highest to 40 per cent. But the Tasmanian Government has seen fit to provide only 20 per cent, which means of course that it has the lowest number of houses per capita. It has the lowest loan moneys available to home builders and it charges the highest rate of interest of any State in Australia. That is the record of the Tasmanian Labor Government. 
Let me compare that with the alternatives being offered by a possible Liberal government. The first item in the State Liberal Party housing policy is the encouragement of home ownership. The second item is freedom of choice and the third states that departmental housing should be primarily for those who need it. The next point is that the Liberal Party believes in an overhaul, with the co-operation of the Federal Government, of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. It then goes on to talk about State guarantees of loans, the encouragement of cooperative housing societies, repayments being geared to incomes, the deposit home scheme and the reduction of weekly payments, geared to income and family commitments, exempting couples from stamp duty on their first home, and so on. That is the alternative. Of course, I am not the only one who is slightly displeased with the performance of the present Tasmanian Government. In the  Examiner  of 29 September  Mr Casey,  the Auditor-General, under the heading Housing Dept Roasted' accused the Government of: 
Speculation on land sold cheaply by the department to help young home builders. 
Leasing and selling of shops without proper procedural safeguards. 
Dubious' use of welfare housing funds to buy three properties in Hobart 's historic Battery Point. 
Lack of Ministerial direction on land sales policy. 
Inadequate departmental communications. 
Failure to demand rents. 
If we are going to give money to the States for welfare housing, the least we can expect is that the scheme is administered properly. The most efficient way in which to have the scheme administered is to get as much money as possible to the people who can afford to go on with the job and then to look after the people who most need help. 
The whole basis of the proposals as far as the Department is concerned is that the policy must be carried out on a basis of need. The Liberal policy is built around the encouragement of ownership which, in itself, lends to community stability and dependability. It encourages everybody who can own a house to own one. It encourages the private sector to participate fully and the public sector to look after those with the greatest need. I support the Bill. 
It is with some trepidation that I ask a question of the Minister for Science. In view of the most disturbing news that the cattle ticks in the northern areas of Australia are rapidly becoming resistant to all known insecticides, can the Minister advise the Senate whether the eradication progam is to be varied and, if so, in what way? How does he currently see the future of the beef industry in the north? 
I wish to speak briefly in support of the Bill. I will endeavour not to cover the ground that has been covered adequately by the previous  speaker, Senator Douglas  McClelland. The sea has always had a great fascination for man. Too often, unfortunately, it has become a fatal fascination. The introduction of the Bill in the first place intrigued me. In preparing for consideration of it I have been able to do a most valuable amount of reading, which I have found very interesting and which I recommend to all honourable senators in their leisure hours to enable them to learn something about the wrecks around the coast of Australia. 
As a representative of an island State of an island nation I am well aware of the vast coastlines involved. In the latitude where I live the vagaries of the sea, the vagaries of ships and the vagaries of those on board those ships have done a lot to re-write the history of Australia and the history of the seas around Australia. I was interested to see it mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  that it has been estimated that there are 2000 wrecks around the coastline of Australia. Many books have been written about shipwrecks, but one that I like and that I have had a good look through is called  Wrecks in Tasmanian Waters  by Harry 0'May It was published in 1950. At that stage over 600 wrecks in Tasmanian waters were listed. Of course, that was before the Tasmanian Transport 
Commission decided to go into the shipwrecking business. 
There are many stories amongst those shipwrecks of tragedy and heroism and of good and bad luck. I would like particularly to mention two, both of which involved ships that were wrecked at King Island. King Island has the great misfortune of being in the middle of a strait and in the middle of the Roaring Forties. For many years it has been the graveyard of many ships heading in the general direction of southern Australia. The  Cataraqui  was one. She was a ship of 800 tons. On 20 April 1845 she sailed from Liverpool with 369 emigrants and crew. The story goes that the weather got worse and worse and that eventually it prevented any observations being taken for 4 days. She was finally wrecked at 4.30 a.m., with no warning, on the coast of King Island. The story continues that many of the doomed passengers came on deck only to be swept away instantly by waves and that by 5 a.m.- the wreck being at 4.30 a.m.- all who were below the decks had drowned. Daylight revealed about 200 persons still clinging to the wreck. At 5 p.m. she parted again with 70 people still clinging to the forecastle. Eventually only nine of the 423 people on board reached shore alive 
Another wreck of interest was the wreck of the  Netherby,  which was a ship of 944 tons. She was wrecked in 1 866 with 500 souls on board, but not one life was lost. She went onto the rocks in much the same fashion as the  Cataraqui.  As a point of interest, it is just as well that things did happen in that way because the forebears of a member of another place,  Mr Ray  Groom, were on the  Netherby  and we would not like to have lost them. There were one or two other interesting wrecks that I just happened to come upon in various places. For example, there was the  Comet,  which left Port Philip for New Zealand in 1862 and which was never heard of again. It was described as being crowded with gold diggers. Then there was the  Madagascar,  which left port in 1853 with a full complement of passengers and 70 000 ounces of gold and which was never heard of again. So the search for shipwrecks is not necessarily without reward. 
The loss of material things and of people's lives has been terrific. Let me read from just one passage on one page of the  Australian Encyclopaedia.  I will save time by not reading the names of the ships. I will just make a few references to the lives lost. There are references to 121 lives being lost, to ships missing with all hands, to 3 lives being lost, to 8 lives being lost, to 10 men being drowned, to 4 lives being lost, to all the crew either perishing on the wreck or being killed by natives directly they landed, to one man being saved, to 9 lives being lost, to all hands being saved, to the crew never being heard of again, and so on. The story is so painfully similar in so many cases. The loss of life was tremendous. 
I do not think that we really have any idea of how many people perished, particularly in the early days. But even in later years there have been too many wrecks. They have been not merely matters of ships being crushed in bad seas and so on. We have had modern sagas like the loss of the  Blythe Star,  which turned over in a calm sea on a fine day, and the  Straitsman,  which sank within 30 feet of its mooring in the Yarra River. It is all very much a part of history. When one goes back into the early history one sees that it all apparently started at about 3 June 1629 with the  Batavia  being wrecked on the Houtman Abrolhos. It is one of the particular wrecks that we are talking about when it comes to considering the legislation before us. 
The story of the  Batavia  in itself is probably one of the grandest shipwreck stories in all history, of any country. If it were a 20th century thriller full of all the intrigue, mutiny, robbery, rape, murder and execution it would be worth reading. But as it happened 350 years ago the story is all that much more intriguing. We are very fortunate in that the documentation of the time was quite good. I understand that on that shipwreck alone there have been written 3 novels, one play, many historical works and numerous articles. When it was finally discovered by Dave Johnson and Max Cramer in 1963 it was identified and recovery of the wreck started. This is where the Western Australian Museum's Department of Maritime Archaeology came into its own. It is a tremendous organisation. I understand that it is now one of the leading authorities on this sort of work in the world. The reading that I have been able to do on the methods of recovery and the very great salvage work and preservation work that has been undertaken on that alone is very interesting. Again I commend that to honourable senators, without reading it now. 
I conclude by saying that it is unfortunate that legislation is needed for the purpose involved. The fact that it has to cover acts of outright vandalism, indiscriminate looting, impetuous souveniring or accidental destruction or damaging is unfortunate, but I agree that under the present circumstances it probably is necessary. 
There are societies now for preserving these shipwrecks. As we are all aware, there are monuments and plaques all round Australia. They are very much part of Australia's history. There is a great need to retain history of this sort and to take the necesary steps to ensure its maintenance and preservation so that it does go down for historical purposes from here on. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
The same situation applies to the export abattoirs. It costs $4 1 .90 per head to have the beast slaughtered. It costs $27.24 in fixed overheads, making a total average processing cost of $69.14. These figures apply to export meat. The figures I have obtained indicate that on an average cost of $70, the cost per head was $ 1 39.90 for export meat on which, at present, the return is $87.12 and on which the average operator in Tasmania is currently losing $42.78 per beast. If the farmers were being paid what the exporters can get they would currently be paying $17.98 per head or 4.64c per lb. Converting this into overhead costs, the wages for export cattle are running at 17.52c per lb on meat produced with an overhead of 1 1.03c per lb or 28.55c per lb on meat produced. With cattle on the boned-out quantity of 28.64c per lb, it means that the cost of the meat at the exporter's door is 57.19c per lb. I seek leave to incorporate these figures also in  Hansard. 
Following the announcement that the south-bound section of the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme is to be implemented, can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport advise whether the schedule is yet available or, if not, when it may be available? 
I also rise to support the Bill. I look optimistically to the results of the expenditure of the $15m for which the Bill provides. A week or so ago I think I would have had grave doubts as to whether increasing the debt was the right thing to do at this time. However, I now believe that with the slight changes that have occurred we have to look ahead with more optimism. We have to try to make sure that the money is spent in a manner that will provide results for the people who are spending it. 
I should like to add to what  Senator Scott  said earlier about the survey that was carried out. An article in  Stock and Land  of 1 8 November under the heading 'Beef survey shows situation' states: 
If beef prices doubled tomorrow, a quarter of Australia's specialist beef producers would still be going broke. 
A sum of $ 15m is certainly not going to assist a very large percentage of that number. The article continues: 
With prices at current levels, two-thirds of producers relying mainly on beef for their livelihood are unviable. 
For the sake of brevity, I seek leave to have that article incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Beef survey shows situation 
If beef prices doubled tomorrow, a quarter of Australia's specialist beef producers would still be going broke. 
With prices at current levels, two-thirds of producers relying mainly on beef for their livelihood are unviable. 
The full scale of the disaster confronting the Australian beef industry is highlighted in an internal report prepared for the Australian National Cattlemen's Council by some of the country's top rural economists. 
The report focuses on the prospects and fates of the 50 383 producers in Australia who rely on beef for more than half their annual income. 
It looks at all producers in this category who run more than 50 head. It defines a viable producer as one whose net cash income (before tax) is $5,000 or more. 
These 50000 odd producers own 23 million cattle between them- more than two-thirds of the total bovine population. 
Thirty-two thousand of these beef producers are not viable at the present prices of around 45c a kg. 
The ANCC survey looks at the situation of beef producers in four separate categories. Preliminary figures show: 1 8 300 producers are viable, and earn more than $5,000 a year. They run 10 million cattle with an average debt a beast of $25, and have an average herd size of 566 head. 1 1 000 producers, representing three million head and averaging 276 a heard, are earning between $0 and $5,000 a year. Their debt a beast is $23. 13 500 producers are losing between $0 and $5,000 a year. They represent three million head of cattle and have an average heard size of 210. Their average debt a beast is $43. 7600 producers are losing more than $5,000 a year. They represent seven million cattle and have an average heard of 905 head. Their debt a beast of $39.70. 
Thus it can be seen that it is the smallest and the largest scale beef producers, the latter concentrated chiefly in the pastoral zones, who are facing the gravest threat. 
ANCC took the survey a step further by projecting how many producers would be viable if beef prices lifted to 96c a kg; the answer was 28 700 of the 50 000. 
At 96c a kg, there would still be at least 12 000 beef producers who would be losing money. 
The message here is clear,' says ANCC executive officer Baden Cameron. 'Many producers are pinning their hopes on some great marketing scheme to lift returns and ensure the survival of the industry. 
But while we desperately need a good marketing scheme, the unfortunate truth is that it still would not guarantee the survival of a very large part of our specialist and beefdominant producers. ' 

 Mr Cameron said for these producers the only possible solution would be the implementation of household support and other reconstruction schemes aimed at helping them to recover financial equilibrium. 
He expressed optimism that the Federal Government's new rural reconstruction proposals, currently before the States, would contain some help. 
It is understood that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is currently holding a crash investigation into the plight of unviable beef producers, and should produce further statistics in the near future. 
There are estimated to be 130000 individual rural producers in Australia who run cattle in one form or anotherbut the SO 000 covered by the ANCC investigation clearly represent the concentration of expertise and specialisation in the industry. 
According to the Bureau of Statistics, there are 33 032 rural holdings in Australia devoted mainly to beef production. 
In the main, I think that urban dwellers generally have come to regard farmers as being wealthy, that farmers usually think the processors are wealthy, and that usually the housewife thinks that everybody else is wealthy or is making too much profit. To show what the position is in Tasmania I sought costs from a retail butcher and an export abattoir. I found that an ordinary retail butcher running an average establishment spends 31.56c per lb on the meat between the time he buys it and the time it goes out of his shop. This represents $ 146.24 per beast on an average sized beast, plus the price of the beast. At present, those cattle are costing, say, $80 and it is costing $146.24 from the time he buys the beast until the time he sells it. I seek leave to incorporate those figures in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The document read as follows- dated 25.11.76 
I seek to have these documents incorporated as a means of saving time. I thought this would be preferable to reading them at great length. In spite of these costs it has been generally considered that the exporters are making huge profits. In another place an honourable member, whose name I will not recall, made substantial charges about rip-offs and named several firms which he accused of making unfair or undue profits. He did not, of course, at any stage indicate what he considered to be a reasonable profit or what he thought a reasonable return should be. Nor did he mention the amount of capital involved in securing the return. The first firm he named was F. J. Walker Ltd. He made various remarks about that company. He said that over the 8-year period he nominated that firm had a turnover of $584.7m in sales which produced a gross profit of $3. 82m, representing 0.67c in the dollar on turnover. I do not really believe it is reasonable that a firm operating on that volume of turnover could operate on a much finer margin than that and still stay in business. 
The next firm which the honourable member made various remarks about was Tancred Bros, which, over the same 8-year period, showed an average profit of 1.2c in the dollar. I did not work the rest of the figures out. I just worked out those two sets of figures to see whether the claims that were made were correct. I consider the returns to the farmer but there will be no return to the farmer if we continue to lose the processors at the rate we have been losing them through bankruptcy. The success of the farmer is entirely dependent upon the success of the exporter. Without the exporter the farmer will make nothing. 
Australians are eating the cheapest meat in the world. In fact, they are eating the cheapest food in the world. Practically nowhere else is as little of the income dollar spent on food. Food producers generally are subsidising consumers generally and it is not the processors or the butchers in the meat industry who are making all the money. The loans provided in this Bill will help in the cash flow situation and in the carry-on situation. Costs have increased by 34.5 per cent over the last 3 years coupled with an income loss of 61.4 per cent over the same period. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics records this as a loss of $1,8 16m. Devaluation is certain to help a little but it will not turn the corner. It may help to restore a little confidence but the marketing of the meat generally is still not good enough. 
The Australian Meat Board has failed to give producers or exporters the confidence necessary to go ahead and plan in the long term. On many occasions there have been changes which were very hard to follow, with little explanation as to why they were made. Producers and processors alike find it difficult to engage in long term planning when they are provided with only short term measures. In that regard I welcome the changes that were made today allowing greater equity for the seasonal works and the reinclusion of Japan, Okinawa and Sweden in the income entitlement earning countries. The Meat Board has been giving a lot of verbal encouragement to exporters to engage in the risk markets but they are entering the risk markets without sufficient protection. If the risk markets are to perform the function we should like them to perform, I do not think it is unreasonable that the Meat Board should provide greater protection. 
This year we have seen what happened to the Canadian market and the Peurto Rican market. In these instances it is my interpretation that basically the exporters were left virtually high and dry by the Meat Board when the crunch came. In the Primary Industry newsletter of 10 November the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board,  Colonel Malcolm  McArthur, said that he was right behind private enterprise in the meat trade and would be ready to stand by to help if needed. If they happen to get into a hole we will help them, that's the Board's role . . . and if there is any price cutting we will step in . . . 
That is what he said, but my interpretation of the situation as I have seen it is that it has not really worked out that way. I think we have to look at what we can do to make the role of the Board much more satisfactory. We have to try to see what we can do to get the growers and the Board to have greater understanding with the exporters. The way it stands at the moment, every time there is uncertainty, every time there are any risks to run or every time questions are asked to which answers are not available, it is reflected immediately in the price of the beast in the saleyard. I believe that this is where the greatest loss to the farmer exists. If we can get a little continuity, confidence and regular trading, that situation will be improved. With this last flicker, as  Mr McMahon  said recently, it cost him $50 a head in the saleyards at Wodonga the next day. 
-He was selling. This is the way the market reacts. We have to try to ensure that at least we take out some of the bumps. At present all sorts of manoeuvres are being worked upon. With the restructuring of the Board and the greater market control that we are looking for, plus, I hope, the introduction of some reasonable measure of classification, I think we will be able to do more not only for the 34 million cattle that are involved but also for the 130000 people who run cattle for either their whole livelihood or their main livelihood and for the 300-odd meat processors who are involved, all of whom are the basis of what is one of Australia's largest industries. Until we can get this little bit of solidity and understanding, the industry will continue to flounder along from highs to lows, without the people in the industry really knowing what they are looking for. In the meantime 1 look for the result that the $15m, coupled with a similar amount from the States, may provide. I support the BUI. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry and Commerce. Has the Minister had an opportunity to examine the small business policy of the Tasmanian Opposition Leader, the Honourable Max Bingham? Did he note that  Mr Bingham  proposes to establish a Tasmanian small business bureau? Would the Minister's Department be willing to co-operate in the establishment of this important bureau by providing any information and advice that might be sought by the 'new' Tasmanian Government? 
-Can the Minister for Education advise whether the Interim Council of the Maritime College has yet been called together? If so, can he provide any progress report on the development of the College? 
I agree with by far the greatest proportion of what  Senator Wriedt  has had to say. The magnitude of the problem in itself is such that anybody who takes it lightly just does not know what he is about. I found it very interesting to read the buildup material that has come through and the speeches, both for and against, in the other place in relation to this matter. I have found that the question whether people are likely to agree or disagree with the homes savings grants scheme is very largely a matter of their philosophical approach to the question. I accept that as being the basis of the matter. I do not accept the philosophy which is not in agreement with the scheme. I will leave it at that. 
We have to realise that this legislation is part of the overall housing situation that the Government has taken upon itself and in relation to which there are different operations of the public and private sector. We have also to consider that, whatever others may consider to be desirable, there never will be enough public funds to provide the public houses which may appear to be necessary. It is always going to be necessary to get the private sector money released and into the system as quickly as possible and in as great a volume as possible. There has to be encouragement for this to be done. I have always regarded it as being the same as putting lime on the ground. The lime itself does not do anything; it is what it releases that counts. As with the lime, there is already plenty there. It is just a case of working out how to get it out. 
Some speakers in the debate in the other place made what I consider to be quite rash and irresponsible statements about the aims and the application of the scheme. In this regard I refer to the comments of  Mr Uren  as recorded at page 325 1 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 3 December. He said: 
This is a sectional Government. It is a Government whose entire ideology revolves around widening the gap between the rich and the poor. 
That is an example of what I was getting at.  Mr Uren  went on to say: 
The homes savings grant scheme being introduced by this legislation is regressive. This and other direct subsidy schemes to home owners are regressive when they involve the transfer of resources from the poor to the rich. These forms of assistance to home owners amount to no more than the poor subsidising the rich. This scheme is particularly regressive. 
He made that comment over and over again. For a man who has been in politics for the length of time that  Mr Uren  has, I should have thought that he would have understood something about housing by now. He went on to say: 
The scheme is a blatant subsidy for those whose capacity to save is above average. 
He went on in that vein. I do not accept the thinking that goes with it, although I accept the fact that there is thinking along those lines.  Mr Uren  talked of people whose ability to save is low. I think that some discussion is also deserved on the people who adopt an attitude in which effort is high. I think that we should pay regard to and help those who wish to help themselves. Last week a young chap called at my office in Burnie and asked about the homes savings grant. I thought he looked quite young. I asked him what age he was. He said that he was 19 years of age. He said that his girl friend was 18 years of age and that they intended to buy a house and get married. I asked him what sort of money he had already. I found that he and his girl friend had saved $6,000 already. Neither of them had wealthy parents. Neither of them had high paying jobs. But they had made the effort and already, at that age, they had $6,000 for thenhouse. I believe that people such as that are entitled to consideration. I think it is very worthy that they are not looking to the Government to put them into a house. Any help in this area reduces the pressure on the public sector.  Mr Uren  said that putting money into this scheme would increase pressure on the public sector. He could not have been more wrong in any statement he made. He also mentioned, as  Senator Wriedt  did, that it is in conflict with the Government's interests to encourage people to save for housing. It certainly is not in the Government's interests to see people putting their money under the mattress. It is in the Government's interests to see them buying land and buying it on terms. It is also in the interests of the people concerned. If they have regular commitments they will meet them. If they buy land on today's market undoubtedly it will be to their advantage later. It puts money into circulation. It improves land development. 
I do not favour the activities of the land commissions and the urban land councils.  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned these last week. The experience I have had is that the urban land councils and land commissions in fact are putting the price up. The best way to keep the price down is to have a freely operating system of supply and demand. If supply and demand operate to the best adavantage land will sell at the lowest possible price. It is the undue regulations and delays that put prices up by creating shortages. There are the trend-setting local councils which work on the principle that the developer pays when in fact it is the purchaser who pays, as we all know.  Senator Gietzelt  referred to the fact that between 1950 and 1970 the price of land increased 3 rimes faster than the increase in wages; but he did not mention that in 1950 when a person bought a block of land that is what he got- a block of land. It may have had pegs; it may not. If it did, that is about all the purchaser got. By 1970 a block of land had kerbs and gutters, concrete footpaths, a 10 per cent dedication for public purposes, sealed streets, underground power lines, sewerage and stormwater drainage. There is also 18 months to 2 years interest to be paid while the land is being serviced. The cost of all that goes on to the price of the land. 
-I am not against services. I am against interference with land developers in all areas. With a little less interference and a little more common sense we would get land on to the market more quickly and it would be much cheaper. There is also a hold-up in zoning. Restrictions that force a shortage of land are the greatest single item that puts the price up. If we can make land more readily developable the price will come down faster than in any other way. The trend-setting councils, which want everything but gold plated power poles, also are playing their part in putting up prices. Developers are in business to stay in business. A few fly-by-nights certainly are not, but they do not stay in the business for long. One only has to look at the market leaders in the field and the reputation that they hold to have dispelled any doubts about the standing of genuine professional developers. 
The land councils are tending to tie land up when the money would be far better used in housing. If we relieved the planning congestion prices would come down. I will cite the situation in Hobart, which I know reasonably well. The land council there bought up large quantities of land. It paid high prices to achieve its ends. It paid far more than the professional subdividers would have paid. The purchases largely ringed the city of Hobart, but the land council had insufficient capital to develop the land. The housing rate dropped. The private builders had to go further out to look for land, and the prices went up. This strained the resources and services of the Hobart City Council and other councils round about. It did nothing to make land cheaper and nothing to make more land available. It tied up money that could have produced many more houses. 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has said that since 1964 a total of 362 952 people have benefited under the old homes savings grant scheme. The scheme is part of the Government's total housing policy. Nobody could deny that the Liberals have a record of consideration of all sections of the housing field. This is very valuable. We have worked largely on the system that we must help those who help themselves and we must look after those who cannot help themselves. I do not see that there is any problem about providing a homes savings grant to people who show that they have the necessary understanding and capacity. I notice that one member of the House of Representatives said that those receiving the grant can do precisely what they like with it. I agree with that point. He said: 
They can go for a trip to Bali or Bangkok. They can go to Suva or  Shrang-la,  to Rangoon or the Riviera. This Government does not give a damn what they do with it. They can go and buy a fur coat with it or a Mercedes. They can go and blow it up at the Hilton. They can buy themselves a speedboat. 
This Government believes that people may well do that if they wish, if it is their own money and they have earned it. I like this Bill. I think it is a big improvement on the original Act. It extends the services to more people. The classifications are widened. It opens up many new areas and it removes many of the small anomalous or difficult situations that used to exist. The funds that are envisaged are sufficient to build between 45 000 and 50 000 houses a year, which on the present value of houses represents between $ 1,750m and $2,000m worth of houses a year for first home owners. By putting that much into that sector there obviously will be less call on the public sector and it will be able to have more of the resources that are available. Only by making the private sector fully viable can the public sector be given a real chance to play its part for those who are unable to do it for themselves. I think it is a good Bill. It is fair and it is needed. It is part of the Government's overall policy. I commend it to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the fact that Tasmanian meat processors have already started their 1977 kill in anticipation of having marketing arrangements rationalised, can the Minister advise whether the proposals are yet completed and whether Tasmania can expect to receive consideration in line with the case put forward for its seasonal operation and limited shipping service? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it propsed to install push button telephones in Government offices throughout Australia or is it the intention to retain them for other than Government use, at least until the costs can be justified? 
-This Bill is a small Bill to remove any legal doubts regarding the imposition of the Commonwealth levy on whole milk and butterfat which is produced in Australia and subsequently vested in State milk authorities. Its purpose is to rationalise the operations of the dairy research and promotion organisation. While dairying has never been one of the glamour industries, either rurally or on an overall economic basis, for many years it was the most dependable occupation in Australia. It was very much the basic unit in the Australian rural field. However, over the last 8 yean the number of dairy farmers has dropped from the order of 70 000 to less than 30 000, and in my own State from 3200 to 1700. The industry did progress until about 1972-73, and it depended very heavily on the results it obtained from the advantages of good research and good development. It went through a period from about 1 939 when there was much improvement genetically, the quality of stock improved, artificial breeding became the thing, fertilisers of all sorts were tried, proved and used, new types of pasture grasses and developments were introduced, irrigation became very much a part of dairying, there were new types and developments in forage crops, rotations, ensilagemaking, lot feeding, changes in milking methods, and improvements in dairy hygiene. As the cost squeeze grew in the late 1960s and early 1970s, there were more cows, larger farms and increased capitalisation. 
Throughout that period the farmer did absolutely everything right; there is no denying that. 
The problem was that the market had been traditional and the industry had built itself entirely on a traditional market and traditional thinking. All the research which had been done was entirely production oriented. There were many factories all over Australia and they were all the same. They were aU oriented to the production of more milk and the making of butter. Although there were signs that that might not continue, the signs were not read at that stage, and by the time action was needed there were real problems. Suddenly it happened. The United Kingdom and the European Economic Community had slipped away. The home market had started to change considerably. Costs had gone mad, competition from overseas had become extremely severe, and the debt structure had increased alarmingly. Even then, most farmers, most factories and most farm advisers believed that the problems were temporary. 
Added to that were the problems that arose with last year's season. At a time when it looked as though rationalisation was going to take place, there was one year of higher prices and immediately, as a means of recouping some of the losses, the number of cows showed a dramatic increase in the main dairying areas. People who would normally have sold off a lot of culled cows kept them. The immediate result in the first year was that because they had more stock they had less hay. That was followed by a fairly bad winter when all the reserves were used up. As we know, the price of cattle then feU and the price of butter and milk fell. The farms in the southeastern area of Australia were all overstocked and at that stage all the farmers were short of money. They have not, did not and could not apply superphosphate, and they had used all their hay. Then there was a drought period of proportions we had not seen for many years which coincided with a complete market collapse, and a disaster situation, which hopefully we are corning out of, took over. 
As a result, the supply has been reduced this season. The cows all came in badly and production has been down. The loss markets we have been supplying over the last few years will not be supplied to the same extent as at present and, accordingly, the return per lb to the dairyman will be quite a lot higher than it otherwise would have been, although the overall income will be very low. The devaluation will assist in some measure and hopefully we will now enter a period of some stability. It would appear that there has been some improvement in the beef market, and there is no doubt that the dairy and beef industries are tied together to some extent. I believe that dairy beef is the biggest single area in which dairy research should be engaged upon. There would be no question of the dairy industry wrecking the beef industry by over-supply, because with a total cattle population in Australia at present of about 34 million, fewer than 2.5 million are dairy stock. With selective crossbreeding of stock which will produce quick growth and early maturity, the farmers can, with care, improve their productivity quite substantially in that area alone. Basically, farmers are traditionalists, and even in their breeding pattern with the sorts of bulls they use they are unlikely to make changes quickly. But there is a need to change if change is needed. 
Up to this point I have been talking about the front end of the problem, but I do not think that that is particularly where the problem is. If we look at the area which counts, that is the consumer end, we cannot but agree that that is where the industry's shortcoming lies. There have been insufficient results from that portion of the dairying research budget which has been spent on consumer orientation. The Dairying Research Committee is made up of 10 membersthe  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation, 4 members representing Australian dairy farmers, one member representing butter and cheese factories and factories processing whole milk and whole milk products, and 4 members representing respectively the Australian Agricultural Council, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Australian Department of Primary Industry and the Australian Dairy Corporation. Respectfully, if I were looking for the cause of the problem I would start right there. No one on that Committee represents consumer interests in any way, and if we are to be concerned about the production of a product that people want and its marketing in a way that people want it presented we have to ask the people who know. 
I have read the reports of the Committee from 1972-73 to 1975-76, and they show a vast list of projects on which money has been spent. The figures show that in 1968-69 $767,834 was spent on dairy research; in 1969-70 the amount was $675,646; in 1970-71, $792,301; in 1971-72, $800,134; in 1972-73, $821,373; in 1973-74, $836,860; in 1974-75, $872,982; and in 1975-76, $912,657; making a total of $6,479,787, or $6.5m. That amount has been spent in the last 8 years. Nearly all of it has been spent on the technical side of dairying, on production and on problems of manufacture. Very little of it has been spent on the factor that really counts- the getting of the product into the market. The money that is spent by the Dairying Research Committee is spent under 3 basic headings: Dairy farm research, manufacturing research, and marketing and economic research. In relation to manufacturing research, under the heading of 'New Foods' the Committee's report states: 
Milk Products as Ingredients in Foods 
Recombined dairy products and dried whipping cream were tested for acceptability and storage. 
More recently efforts have been diverted towards the development and evaluation of milk compounds as ingredients in other foods. 
New Dairy Foods 
This project concentrated on the development of a wide range of products for the local market including quarg spread, chocolate confection, processed cheese spread, flavoured butter and recombined milk yoghurt. 
That is the only reference in the report to production. Under marketing and economic research only 3 items were mentioned. They were a continuing research survey on household demand for cheese, the adjustment and management in the dairy industry in Tasmania and new dairy foods. In relation to dairy foods the report states: 
A program was devised to obtain market information on new forms of dairy foods as a guide to commercial processors and the Department's researchers with the long term objective of increasing consumption of dairy products. During the project the Divisional Foods Group of the Queensland Department of Primary Industries established communications with commercial marketing organisations which will be of benefit to the development and marketing of new products in the future. 
That was all the report said on that subject and that does not tell me enough about what is happening as regards increasing the marketability of dairy products in Australia or overseas. There has been a further decline in the consumption of butter in Australia and a preference towards margarine, the consumption of which is up 22 per cent. I do not think that the market is being given what it is looking for. I believe that if one carried out a survey one would find out what people are looking for. Then we could see about supplying the demand. A survey of this type should be done right now. From my own investigations it seems that the first requirement that people have in this area is for something to put on their bread. Secondly, it needs to be spreadable. Thirdly, it needs to be packaged in the sort of container that can sit in the middle of the table. Basic and fundamental as that sounds, I think that if we provided butter in that form the sales of butter would immediately increase. More research needs to be done on the spreadability question. I know what is happening. I have read all sorts of reports about tilings that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other bodies have been doing to improve the spreadability of butter. This research has been going on for some time. I understand that there may even be some legal complications at present over an international product. All I am saying is that for the amount of money spent, the time that has been taken and the condition of the industry at large, insufficient has been produced. Whatever the cause, the results are not there. 
The industry is involved completely in the present situation. I understand that there will be a meeting of all sections of the dairying industry here in Canberra next week again to try to make sure that when changes are made they will be to the advantage of all sections of the industry. These do not need to be only straight political decisions; they have to be decisions that are acceptable to the industry and with which the industry will go along in a way that will be to the lasting benefit of the industry. We know that there is to be a reframing period. We know that there have to be further changes. The industry knows that. But the actual extent of these changes and the shape of them are not clear yet. It is all very well to get expert advice from people who will never have the opportunity to put the advice into practice, but it is far more important that the industry should know where it is going and should participate in the decision making. 
For instance, the cheese manufacturers have done a lot towards increasing their market, as the figures will show. But they too have problems. Representatives of the industry have given me several instances where they have gone to a lot of trouble and expense to produce a variety of cheese in Australia which, once established, is superseded by an imported variety which has been subject to subsidised production and subsidised export. In many cases the imported cheese has been produced under production standards which may be questionable when compared with the standards under which Aus.tralian manufacturers operate. I support the Bill. I look forward to some changes after its implementation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What funds have been spent on dairy research over the past 10 years. 
At what institution were the funds spent, and on what project. 
3 ) What was the amount. 
Who was the person in charge. 
What has been the result of or progress to date of the research. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Under which Acts are funds provided for housing of aged persons. 
How many units have been provided under each Act for the past 5 years by States and what is the amount of funds involved. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister, for Environment, Housing and Community 
Development. Can the Minister advise what steps will now be taken by the Government to ensure that changes can be made to the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement to enable funds to go first to those in greatest need, even though it is reported that there are States endeavouring to prevent this from happening? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What staff, or representation, is there in the Tasmanian Information Service, both full-time and part-time. 
Where are they located. 
What is the annual budget of the Service. 
Are any premises being leased or rented by the Service. 
5 ) What equipment is owned or leased by the Service. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What funds have been spent on dairy research over the past ten years. 
At what institution were the funds spent, and on what project. 
What was the amount. 
4 ) Who was the person in charge. 
What has been the result of or progress to date of the research. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Under which Acts are funds provided for housing of aged persons. 
How many units have been provided under each Act for the last 5 years by States and what is the amount of funds involved. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. I remind him that the Treasury has just released figures which show house completion figures for the various quarters from September 1975 as follows: September, 30 900; December, 3 1 900; March 1976, 33 000; June, 36 300; September, 37 400- a 2 1 per cent increase over that period. Will the Minister comment on whether, on the information at hand, the trend appears likely to continue, and whether it augurs well for the recovery which we are still talking about and which seems to be under discussion in other places? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Is it proposed to install push-button telephones in government offices throughout Australia, or is it the intention to retain them for other than Government use, at least until the costs can be justified. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of reports from the Royal Australian Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force that in excess of 3000 foreign fishing trawlers are now operating in the waters adjacent to Australia's territorial waters, and as this represents an increase of 600 per cent in 9 years, will the Minister advise whether any proposals exist for joint venture arrangements with other countries or whether the Government has investigated the possibilities of such arrangements which would enable a major expansion of the Australian fishing industry? 
I am not sure whether I should direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, the Minister representing the Attorney-General or the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
-A11 right, try the lot. It has been drawn to my attention that the number of armed holdups in Australia has increased quite alarmingly and that it is estimated that twothirds of these holdups are carried out with imitation weapons. Can the Minister advise what steps can be taken to prevent the importation, manufacture or sale of imitation weapons of such quality that they can be confused with real weapons? 
I shall be brief because there is little in the way of fact or opinion that has not been fairly adequately canvassed at this stage. I regret that I am no constitutional lawyer, as are some of my predecessors in this debate. I would have liked more time in which to study the position a lot more closely but time was not available, apparently. I have to meet the position in the time available. I regret that this legislation has been introduced and I have some regret also for the method by which it was introduced. I also regret that win, lose or draw the Government probably will long remember its exercise in dealing with this matter. 
In all the years that I have been interested in or involved with politics I have believed in the structure of the Senate and have defended its position. If I did not think the Senate was important I would not want to be here now. There can be no argument that the importance of the Senate would rate in inverse ratio to the number of voters in a State. I like the Senate the way it is and I am not persuaded that the proposed changes will make it any better for Tasmania, if they are made. Every watering down of the Senate, of what it does and how it works weakens the position of Tasmania. I understand that the dominant population States might well prefer the greater apparent power to their States, but if that is so they must also recognise that as their power may increase it is achieved at the cost of the smaller States. They should also remember that Federation would never have been possible had it not been for the consideration given by and to the smaller States. This matter was debated a couple of years ago. It was voted on before I came to the Senate. I shall not bother entering into that matter. My decision relates not so much to whether this is good legislation or whether it is in the interests of my constituents, but to whether I should try to prevent them from having the right to say so themselves. I do not like the Bill. I would at least like to see the legislation amended. I would support such a move. I recognise, however, that the executive Government, the Opposition, the Constitutional Convention and the States believe that the proposition should go ahead. My personal views and decisions may be of little consequence but, as a representative of Tasmania, I believe that at this juncture I must allow my constituents the opportunity to do as I do, and that is to make their own decision. 
I ask the Minister for Science: Has any progress been made with the acquisition of property in Tasmania for the new Antarctic base? I ask the question at this time particularly in view of previous questions and in view of the advertising for sale of the H. Jones &amp; Co-IXL property in Hobart. 
I too will not be opposing the Bill in the final vote. I have not found that the reasons for the legislation have been sufficient. I do not accept that it is sufficient reason to say that there are too many elections. I do not accept as sufficient the reason that elections are costly. What does concern me and what has not been explained is that limiting elections by legislation is the first step on the road to having no elections at all. There are now only 24 democratic countries left in the United Nations and I would not want to see that number come down to twenty-three through Australia being the next one to drop off the list. I do not like the legislation, but I will also allow my constituents to show their own feelings. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Adoption of Report 
Motion (by  Senator Durack)  proposed:  That the report of the Committee be adopted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. It concerns a Press report of a meeting of the North Western Tasmanian Committee on Post-Secondary Education, which is based on what is referred to as 'the replacement of grants by student loans'. Will the Minister advise the Senate whether it is his intention to eliminate post-secondary grants and to replace them with a student loan system, or whether any changes to the system are contemplated? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade advise whether there are any moves in progress or being contemplated to discuss with the New Zealand Government the current implications of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement as it affects several very sensitive Australian industries, particularly in the field of textiles? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. The Minister for Overseas Trade has been reported in the media as having expressed concern about the effects of the growing over supply of cattle in Australia, a situation readily acknowledged by all people with any knowledge of the cattle industry. Can the Minister advise what steps are being taken currently to relieve this position by increasing the sale of live cattle to overseas markets, particularly those which would not interfere with existing beef exports? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the announcement by the Minister on 10 March that of grants for fishing research totalling $266,569 only $2,220 was allocated to Tasmania, and for one very minor project only, can the Minister advise what other projects from Tasmania are still under consideration or have been rejected in this financial year? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In the course of a television interview recently it was claimed that one person in ten in Australia takes and suffers from overdoses of pain killers, mainly aspirin and APC. In view of the range of the program, can the Minister advise whether one person in ten is a reliable estimate? If not, is a more reliable estimate available or is there any reliable way that such an estimate can be authenticated? 
I too would like to extend a warm welcome to  Senator Lewis  on his entry to the Senate and to congratulate him on his maiden speech. I hope that he has a long and enjoyable stay in the Senate. I have noticed that in both Houses of Parliament during the Address-in-Reply debate many members have been attracted to speak on the subject of unemployment. I recognise that after inflation unemployment is the greatest problem confronting Australia today. Many figures and interpretations of those figures have been presented to us. But I have been quite unimpressed by the fact that most of the figures have been put out of context into a political presentation and that many of them have been slanted to suit an argument. The figures have been used as a method of attack far more than as a means of trying to assist those who are involved. I will make some effort to see that the figures available from various sources are put together and produced in context. Most of the figures are produced with connotations that are political, economic or sociological but seldom are tied in together. I do not wish to engage in an argument about any of the figures. Certainly I have not entered the debate to be provocative about them. I have no intention of placing any blame for the present situation, but I wish to state the position and to indicate, amongst other things, the total inseparability of the figures relaing to employment, education and immigration. Hopefully, I will come to one or two conclusions and leave some aspects for honourable senators to think about. I would like to try to place these figures into some sort of context. 
I start with immigration. As we all know, many migrants have come to Australia since the war. There have been a great many successes amongst them in the way they have settled into the community and the way they have become so much part of the Australian way of life. Unfortunately, there is still a large majority of migrants who came to Australia and immediately moved into what are normally regarded as being the lower socio-economic groups. They came to Australia where they were pleased to get work. They took what work was available and they appreciated it. However, in many cases they finished up working on the hydro-electric schemes in Tasmania or the Snowy Mountains, working on roads and in mines, as cleaners, builders' labourers and so on. While many migrants were assimilated, many of them were not. 
The figures available now would indicate that approximately 40 per cent of the total number of unemployed persons were not born in Australia. Many of them are unskilled or can be classified as having lower skills. There is still a percentage whose grip of the language is less than good. We are often told that a means of combating the present situation is not to bring in any more migrants. Even now in a time of high unemployment the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  produced a list on 3 March 1977 containing over 120 occupations for which immigrants may enter Australia and obtain employment. These vacancies are not in all States and they are not in many cases completely open. Immigrants must have a firm job offer before they can come to Australia, but there are over 120 classifications for which migration is possible. They are not all impossible classifications. They include wood machinists, motor mechanics, bricklayers, tilers, glaziers, panel beaters and stenographers on the one hand and chiropodists, orthodontists, optometrists, psychologists and other such qualified people on the other hand. 
Yes, chefs are included. The reason for this is that there are many occupations in which Australians do not choose to work. There are also some technical jobs for which we do not wish to train. We have to look at these positions in an overall way to make sure that we try to encourage as many of these people as we can. We also must remember in the present employment situation that since 1970 376 109 migrants have come to Australia. That is the total figure for net immigration into Australia. Out of these migrants, over 100 000 people have been placed in the Australian work force. More of the 376 109 people are being placed all the time. 
I turn to deal with education. I am not one of those people who is not terribly satisfied with the education system that we have today. I believe that education is a mixture of schooling, training and preparation. I do not see education as the end. I see it only as the means to the end. I am not satisfied that it is sufficiently fitting children for the opportunities that society provides. I am not sure that it creates good expectations. It may well create expectations but they may be expectations that we cannot fulfil. I think that in many cases people are being educated beyond the limits of what is available. I do not think that we look at education as a way of preparing and training as much as we should. For those educators who say that this is not their job, I would ask them to rethink their position and their responsibility to society as a whole. 
In 1964, 38 per cent- over one-third- of all 1 6-year olds were still at school. By 1 9 70 this had increased to 55 per cent- substantially over half the children. In 1964, 17 per cent of all 17-year olds were still at school. By 1970, the percentage was over 30 per cent. In the recent report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development the comment was made that although children stay longer at school they receive no meaningful vocational marketable skills during that extra period of learning. I believe that if we are to keep children at school for an extra 2 years we must have them leaving school with more chance of fitting into society as it is today. I am not satisfied that in many cases they are leaving school with what I suppose we would say is the discipline of work which is necessary to justify one 's place in the sort of society we have. I do not know about their attitude to life in some cases. I do not know whether the world owes us a living the way we wish. I do not know whether the teachers can give them what they want. I do not see that the world is an oyster. It may be a limpet. Perhaps the goodies are in the middle and all you have to do is to crack the limpet and get them out. 
It has often been said that education is a system run by academics to produce academics. If that is the case it is totally wrong. I do not say that it is the case, but I think that we must make sure that it goes a lot further than that. I think that education has to fit children for the life that society has to offer. This is changing all the time. There are various schemes in practice in other places that I believe we could use productively in Australia. I think that a system of part education and part work is still most appropriate. I think more emphasis can be placed on this. Young people can see the value of what they are doing in the context of why they are doing it. I think so many young people do not appreciate why they are at school or the advantages of being there. 
I was interested to read in the local Press on 5 March that  Senator Carrick  said that further education would be made an equal partner with the universities and colleges of advanced education. Technical and further education has always been the lame child. I think that if we follow through that sort of a statement we will get real advantages. We have been told always that universities are the ultimate in education. This is definitely not so. I see the colleges of advanced education and technical colleges as being at least equal to universities.  Mr Ken  Jones, the Secretary of the Department of Education recently produced an article on the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development investigation. He made some excellent points about what schools should be doing and how the change from school to work can be best coped with. There is a lot of ways to do this. If the Department is prepared to go ahead with the results of the summary we will have a lot better system in which to work. The community at large must broaden the term 'education' and also, I repeat, work on the fact that there is no second class education. All education is equal and first class. 
I go back to the question of expectation. I do not know much of it can be supported. I do not think that society can provide everybody with exactly the job they want, in exactly the position they want and under the circumstances in which they want to undertake it. I think we have been through a period of full employment when jobs were rightly easy to get and a lot of choice was available. I do not consider that as being entirely normal. I do not know that many people go through life doing all the things that they would like to do. I believe, particularly in the younger years, that the most important thing a person can do is to get a job. Once he has a job he can then see about changing it, if he wishes, or making it what he wants. 
I think one of the big neglects is that we are not educating people sufficiently for their leisure. We hear of young people suffering from boredom and getting into trouble. This is because they have never been taught to do anything constructive with their other life- their leisure life. I have been lucky in that I have always been able to have 2 lives. I have had a working life and a nonworking life. I have had considerable enjoyment from my non-working life. I know that people such as shift workers think that their life is when they are not working and that their work is when they are accumulating what is necessary to live the way they want to live. I think that we are not doing nearly enough to see that people have something in which they can interest themselves. 
If they have an interest they can then do a job that is available while thinking of their real interest. 
There is a tendency in places to talk about propping people up, putting them into jobs and keeping them there whether or not they are performing any function. I do not think that that is good for the economy, for the country and in particular for the people involved.  Mr Joy  expressed this aspect very adequately in the summary of the report on the Tasmanian railways. He said: 
It will not help Tasmania, Tasmanian transport users, the remaining railway employees or ultimately, the persons actually concerned, if Tasmanian Railways is to go on hiring people to do unnecessary work, or work which uses value at only a fraction of its costs ... To maintain employment on Tasmanian Railways solely to reduce unemployment would be to make an implicit decision that the output from the positions concerned, which rail users demonstrably value at only a fraction of their cost, is the most productive use that can be found for the persons concerned. We cannot accept this; we are sure that a creation of public or private sector employment for an equivalent number elsewhere will be of far greater benefit to Tasmania, both immediately and in the longer term. 
They are fine words; we hope the concept becomes possible. We have to work to produce something along those lines. We have to remember that we just cannot keep people doing something for the sake of doing it. I will come back to that a little later. 
The technology of work generally has changed a lot. Apprenticeships have always been up and down. There have been times when apprentices have filled all positions advertised. There have been times when they have not. There have been times when applications have numbered more than vacancies. It is rather disconcerting to see that the figure of 42 000 apprentices in 1973-74 dropped to 35 000 in 1974-75 and to 32 000 in 1975-76. Industry and business, whenever they are in a holding situation, always slow on training first. It is most unfortunate. It creates a vacuum and as the economy picks up the problems are just about as great as they were before. 
An article in the  Australian  of 3 March under the heading 'The Skill Famine in a crazy case ' points out the problems that go with this type of a situation. It points out that a time of run-down training has to be maintained for when the economy picks up. The  Australian  of 4 March stated that the number of tradesmen in the work force had fallen by as many as 156 000 since 1971. It also stated that the report from the Australian Apprenticeship Advisory Committee warned that a shortage of skilled workers would have serious long term effects on business and the economy. I think we all accept that. I do no more at this stage than to implore all business and employers to take advantage of the government schemes that are available for the training of apprentices. We must have more apprentices than we have been getting. 
I was interested today to receive advice from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  that the National Employment and Training scheme which in January 1976 was accommodating 7300 persons was accommodating by the end of February 1977, 15 500 persons. That is a very valuable increase and will do a lot to get the system started. It is one of a variety of things which hopefully we will be able to use. Taking a more positive approach I have also had a look at employment. In 1970, 5 351 000 people were in the work force. In 1976, 6 1 15 000 people were in the work force. This is an increase of 764 000 people- threequarters of a million people. I also found that 197 100 people had 2 jobs. They represent 3.3 per cent of the total work force, so that if they did not have 2 jobs that figure would immediately represent the equivalent of 57 per cent of the current unemployed. The number of working couples has increased from between 250 000 and 300 000 in 4 years, on the best method of deduction that I could come up with on the working figures, until now over 50 per cent of families in Australia are 2-income families. I do not object to that; it is not up to me to do so. I am not passing judgment, but I do think that as a community we have to consider all the moral, sociological and economic questions that are implied. On the last figures that I have been able to obtain, there were approximately 3 800 000 working family units in Australia and over 2 million of them were 2-income families. That is difficult to ignore at a time when unemployment is high. As I said, I do not object to that. It is the community at large which must look to it. 
In periods of stability and prosperity we tend to have full employment and to increase our immigration, but we also go through periods when we increase the school leaving age and reduce the age for retirement. If one looks at the patterns in the post-war period, it will be found that such changes occurred to fit the circumstances. They are not happening now. I do not really believe that we can automatically increase the school leaving age to twenty or reduce the retirement age to fifty. At the same time, university enrolments in 1951, which was the beginning of the only period I have been able to get on a 20-year basis, were 32 000, and in 1971 that figure had increased by 4 times to 123 800. 1 am not sure that those people who enrolled had any expectations at the time they commenced their university courses, and that concerns me greatly. 
If we consider the employment disaster period between June 1974 and January 1975, when unemployment rose from 79 000 to a new plateau of 3 1 2 000, we were hit at a time when the country was just not ready for it. No preparations had been made and there was no idea, in either the short or long term, of what was going to be done about it. It has taken a couple of years under both governments for us to consider the situation. Industry, education and government alike were similarly caught. We have  to  accept that such a position was not envisaged by any government at any time. Everybody is working on it and we are still hopeful of coming up with some sort of solution. This is an age of skills. The unskilled went and machines came in, with things like checkout counters, as the wage explosion took over. Generally speaking, persons possessing job skills are untouched by the current employment crisis, and I quote that statement from an article entitled 'Dole Bludger' which appeared in the  National Times  on 1 March. In that article  Mr Brewer,  who is a Commonwealth Employment Service man, said that from his experience in a survey that had been done, 83 per cent of the unemployed had earned less than $105 net in their last job. The article went on to say that to be unemployed is to be young, a migrant, or to have few saleable skills, and I think that is the area which we all understand and on which we must continue to work. 
During that period between June 1974 and January 1975 we went through the process of an increase in junior wage levels, equal pay, 4 weeks annual leave, long service leave, 100 per cent workers compensation,  ITA  per cent holiday loading, and so on. I am not against any of those things; they are all good. But I think we should have taken about 20 years to bring them in if we were to bring them in without the sort of disruption that has occurred. They are all good, but the country, the community, industry and government were not ready. 
That takes me back again to the question of productivity. We cannot have what is not there. We cannot take out what does not exist. On the question of productivity, the Parliamentary Library has provided me with figures for selected countries. The latest figures available were for 1 974, and I am told that Australia 's relative position has declined a little since then. Of the 1 1 countries shown- Canada, the United States of America, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom- where the gross domestic product was divided by the labour force to produce the gross domestic product per member of the labour force, Australia rated seventh. The figures ranged from as high as $US 1 1 ,88 1 per head to as little as $US4,769, and Australia was $US6,923. With the high standard we have set, our level of productivity is struggling to support the rest of the figures. I think that the greatest effort we can make now is to try to bring productivity up to the level of the other factors that go with it. I am not saying that wages are too high; I am saying that productivity is too low. 
Where do we go from here? I have been reading the newspapers to try to find people who can produce solutions to the problem. In the  National Times,  Mr P.  P. McGuiness under the headline 'The Solution to our Economic Problems' came up with a suggestion, but he qualified it by saying: 
There is a solution to the problem- but it is politically unacceptable. 
His solution was: 
. to redistribute income away from currently employed workers to those unemployed. 
He believes that we should tax 2-income families sufficiently to support the non-income families. But as he said, is that acceptable? Who is going to bring it about? I did a quick calculation, and on the basis of 2 million 2-income families and 350 000 unemployed, that solution would represent a tax of approximately  11 lA  per cent on the 2-income families. Another suggestion was made in the  Australian  on 3 March under the heading 'Five ways to provide jobs for our potential workforce'. I will read these suggestions because I think they are well worth inclusion in the record: 
I ) Job creation programs: These include developmental projects such as roads, e.g. improving the Hume and Pacific Highways, new or improved ports . . . 
I would certainly support that, and I know that the Government has been looking seriously at ways in which those sorts of jobs can be included. Several speakers in both chambers have suggested that many people who are receiving government benefits at present would like to do some work for the amount of money they receive. 
Number (2) in the article related to a 'Reduction in working hours and /or increase in annual holidays '. It was suggested that it may well be possible to divide work more evenly among people. A lot of people are caught up on what I suppose we would call the 40-hour week syndrome who do not really want to work 40 hours. But no provision is made in our current work program for people who want to work, say, 20 hours a week and have 5 half-days playing bowls, watching the cricket, doing the gardening, or building a yacht. I have pages of objections about what would happen with workers compensation, holiday pay, superannuation and all those sorts of things. But I believe that such a project is reasonable and that with goodwill on the part of all people a solution could be found. 
Plenty of people- shop assistants, teachers, even the current young people who have quite limited expectations and modest requirementswould be perfectly happy legitimately to work for less than 40 hours a week and to receive commensurate remuneration. But I do not think I would like to go to an employment office and say that I was looking for a job but wanted to work only 20 hours a week. I think a lot more could be made of people working only 20 hours a week. Such a system could be introduced into supermarkets and in plenty of other places. I suggest that it is another matter that could be looked at. 
No. (3) in the article relates to 'Fiscal measures', such as the abolition of payroll tax, progressive taxation on joint household incomes and higher tax on overtime earnings. I do not know how popular some of these suggestions would be either, but I believe that they are all suggestions that ought to be considered seriously at a time like this. I think they have to be taken into account. Incidentally, the article to which I am referring appeared in 'Forum' in the  Australian  of 3 March and was written by Dick Klugman, a member of the other place. The fifth point in the article states: 
Alternatively, we can accept the fact that, say, five to six per cent of the potential work force will not get work. If our population contains only about that proportion of people preferring idleness on unemployment benefits to work at much higher incomes, then maybe we should let them choose. 

 Mr Klugman concluded the article with probably the  best  sentence of all in saying: 
It is certainly high time all of us were aware of the alternatives and began discussing them rationally. 
I think we all would agree with that. I certainly support the general way in which he has approached the subject. We are in a position that our society not only created but also encouraged. Whilst little blame can be placed on anybody, responsibility rests with everybody. I think we should start by educating the educators. We have to forget the snobbery about first and second class education. We have to remember that education is a means and not an end. Too often it has happened the other way around. The community has to regard work as work and workers as workers. Too often people have been interested in getting a ticket to hang on the wall which states that they are, say, a bachelor or arts when they would have been better to have had a ticket to hang on the wall stating that they were a qualified panel beater. We have to look at getting schools to work 2 shifts a day. We have to educate the older members of the community and train the younger members. As a community we have to consider all the moral, sociological and economic aspects of the work situation today as well as considering the purely political consequences of the work pattern. 
I think we have to go back to a few of the old fashioned ideas. We have to consider the work ethic as a basis and to consider that at the bottom of prosperity is productivity. We all have to be proud of work and proud to produce. We have to realise that the country gains strength from development. Already we can see a slowing down in the hand-out mentality. I think we are getting over the old printing press psychosis towards which we were heading. Progress is slow and it is steady, but we are on the road. I think to talk of unemployment is a very negative approach. I urge us to be more positive and think of employment, talk about employment and all work towards employment. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether there are any firm plans for the use of a larger proportion of higher education funds on technical and further education in the next financial period. Will it be part of the Government's policy to increase the number of student places in this area with a view to training more people in fields currently showing vacancies and likely to continue to do so? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry advise whether there has yet been an assessment of the Australian Dairy Corporation's butter promotion with a view to seeing whether as a result there has been any apparent sustained increase in the sale of butter? Does the Minister consider that the $ lm spent by the ADC and the manufacturers has been spent advantageously to the farmer? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport advise what reaction has been received from local government bodies on the recently announced schedule of funding for roads? Does the Government expect that the efficiency of the system will improve with the amalgamation of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Bureau of Agricultural Economics yet completed its investigation into the dairy manufacturers as referred to in chapter 2 of the Industries Assistance Commission report on the dairying industry? If it is not complete, when can its completion be expected? If it is complete, when will the results be released? If the Minister does not have the information, could he find out the position? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. The Minister is probably aware that Japanese manufacturers are planning a thrust into the Australian electronics market late this year or early next year with their newly developed domestic videotape recorders. One Japanese company alone has stated that it is producing a quarter of a million of these new machines a year and will be moving into the Australian market shortly. Unfortunately, two different non-compatible tape cartridge systems have developed in Japan. In the interests of Australian consumers and knowing the excellent background studies that Australia has done in relation to the standard PAL colour television system and cassette tape recording systems, can the Minister investigate the two cartridge systems and support the Japanese Ministry of International Trade in trying to standardise the systems and so maintain uniformity in Australia? 
-Can the Minister for Industry and Commerce advise whether Press reports arising from the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement meetings reflect the decisions taken? Are any further statements to be made? If so, when can further information be expected? 
I address my question to the Minister for Science. I understand that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has reduced the research into the elimination or control of ragwort which is one of the worst noxious weeds in parts of Tasmania and Victoria. If the States were to contribute on a dollar for dollar basis would the CSIRO be prepared to consider increasing the research again, and if so would the Minister put the proposition to those States concerned? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. A memorandum circulated to honourable senators on behalf of the Australian wine industry indicates that the effect of changes brought in with the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Act 1977 would have the effect of reacting very severely against that industry which is already having problems of liquidity while meeting deferred tax payments. Will the Minister ask the Treasurer whether this position was taken into consideration when this Act was planned and whether consideration can be given to taking action that would at least restore the intentions of section 3 1 B. 
It seems that a lot of store is being placed on producing a White Paper, irrespective of whether it is ready and irrespective of whether it is appropriate. I do not think we want just a paper or just another lot of promises. I think that what we need is some performance and some progress. The actual paper itself is the least important in this chain about which we are talking. When the paper is presented we know what we want it to provide. We want it to be the blueprint that we hope it will be. I do not see that the production of an interim document or one that is not consistent with present and future conditions will be any use to us at all. A statement was produced on this matter to the effect that due deliberation was given on a considerable range of submissions, which numbered, I understand, some 130. Conditions have been changing considerably. The document when produced must be based on what appears to be a reasonably stable situation for the present and future and must be consistent with conditions and the Government's aims, prevailing and anticipated. 
Manufacturing activity in Australia has increased over the years. It was on the increase for many years. It reached a peak some 2 or 4 years ago. Australia has always been a trading nation. What Australia does is very much tied up with what happens in other countries; what we buy or sell is related to conditions in other countries. As a trading nation we have to make sure that we are in reasonable harmony with our trading partners. The problem in the last three or four years was that our costs rose too high. This makes selling activities difficult and buying too easy. 
The work force in 1971 was 5 35 1 000 people. By 1976 it had increased by 764 000 to 6 115 000 people. But the population was increasing faster than that. It is important to realise that, in this period, many more jobs were created, even though a lot of jobs were lost. In the dread period from June 1974 to January 1975 when unemployment increased by 233 000 people in 6 months, the change in manufacturing industry in Australia was brought home to us all. I will not go over whatever reasons caused this state of affairs. I will not try to place any blame. This condition arose because of the weakness of Australian society at the time. We all accepted it. We all lived with it. 
It is significant that between January 1976 and January 1977 unemployment increased by 1 1000 in 12 months. Honourable members should contrast this with the increase of 233 000 which occurred in the 6 months from June 1974 to January 1975. I think it is apparent also to most people that the money that is currently being spent on unemployment would be far better spent on assisting industry. I think we also know that money can be spent only on one or the other- not on both. If we spend it on unemployment, we cannot spend it on industry, and vice versa. I believe that there is still plenty of room for more jobs, but the distribution of jobs and wages at the moment is not good enough. There is too much return for too few while too many receive nothing at all. This of course has given rise to technological combat with machine against labour. 
While wages continue to increase at the present rate productivity is not increasing at the same rate, nor is our capacity to sustain such rises. This increases our problems overseas. We have only to look at our standing with countries such as Hong Kong, Korea, the Philippines, China and Taiwan to see where these factors place us. We are also having trouble competing with the higher developed countries such as the United States of America and New Zealand. While our rate of inflation continues to increase faster than the levels of inflation among our trading partners, the problems can only continue. In this regard I do not think that anybody can possibly query the claim that the Government's main responsibility regarding the economy at present is to deal with inflation. That is clearly the right line to follow. If we were to provide Government measures that would give a great impetus to business at the moment out of balance to and failing to recognise the needs of the rest of the economy, we would suffer again the worst surges of inflation as we did in 1974-75. The period is still difficult. Costs are increasing. Markets are shrinking. Higher levels of imports threaten our industries. We have a non-improving production. We still have to work hard on these problems. In this period people in many cases seem to be trying so desperately to put themselves out of work by the actions that they are taking. People still demand cheaper overseas goods while at the same time forcing up the prices of what they make which is becoming harder to sell. 
The economy is very much a moving target. It varies so much from day to day. With men like  Senator Cotton  and Messrs Anthony, Howard and Macphee monitoring it on a daily basis and doing their jobs well, I think we have much to be thankful for. At a time like this when the textiles area is the hardest hit of the manufacturing industries, I think it is well to take note that the Manager of the Textile Council of Australia personally wrote to the Minister and thanked him for the work that he and his officers have done in regard to negotiations with New Zealand. Manufacturing industry generally has never been served as well as it is served now. With the new and improved Department of Industry and Commerce, the Bureau of Industry Economics, the updated arrangements with the Industries Assistance Commission, the Temporary Assistance Authority and the Department of Productivity, industry has now more voice and more places in which to be heard by experts than ever previously was the case. 
Over a period I have expressed concern at the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement and its complications and implications in the Australian trade field. I would like to say a little about it now as a Tasmanian looking at Tasmanian industries. It is significant that Tasmania's main industries in the manufacturing field centre on textiles, timber and timber products, dairying, particularly butter and cheese, paper and pulp, processed vegetables, carpets and so on. All these items are well produced in New Zealand. These products are always in direct conflict with New Zealand trade arrangements. Every one of these items is in trouble in relation to New Zealand products at present. I have raised these matters with the Ministers and with the departments concerned. I have had very good and fruitful discussions. As a result of the last visit to New Zealand by  Senator Cotton  and  Mr Anthony  much progress has been made. 
At times when trade becomes freer, our own industries cannot be ignored. I was pleased to hear  Senator Cotton  make the point so strongly today that we are trying to free trade in as many areas as possible but we still must consider the Australian situation and its relativity. NAFTA has been particularly anti-Tasmanian. All the things that Tasmania does well New Zealand also does well. Accordingly, NAFTA has been of great concern to me. 
Strangely enough I shall refer to figures from the same document to which  Senator Wriedt  referred when he began his speech, the ANZ Bank business indicators of April 1977. In the normal course it is said that figures can prove anything and any document can be selectively quoted to produce whatever answer we are looking for. Whereas  Senator Wriedt  read from the beginning of this document, I read from the end of it. In the section headed 'ANZ Bank Index of Quantity of Factory Production ' I noticed that of 69 items listed for quantity production, all but 1 1 have increased in the 12 months period from 1975 to 1976. These were mainly in the textile, clothing and footwear areas. Certainly, we need improved productivity, better work distribution, the easing of inflation and greater investment to get the economy back to where we would like it. None of these requirements can be induced by the Government. Each of them needs personal attention. I am well satisfied that the Minister and the Government have the matter well before them. They know exactly where we stand and where we are going. I am satisfied that the Minister will produce the document when it is right, when the time is right and when something permanent and definite can be said. But, in the meantime, those in the community who are frightened of the success that may be coming will continue to undermine stability and to talk down progress. I urge people to ignore the call for the White Paper for the sake of having it and to be prepared to take it when it comes in the form in which the Minister wishes it to be lodged. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In view of the information from France that there has developed a liking for a wide range of non-advertised and plain wrapped goods which sell for as much as one-third less than the previous price, will the Minister make every effort to encourage such a practice in Australia as a means of further improving the recovery? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources ascertain what testing of the areas of Queensland phosphate rock has been carried out since September 1976 as to both the extent of the deposits and the phosphate content thereof? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health advise what progress is being made in upgrading the Torrens Island quarantine station for the receipt of imported livestock? Will the Minister be applying for funds in the next Budget? Is there a date by which it is hoped the station will be operative? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade advise what progress is being made and what is the attitude of the Government in respect of the export of livestock, in view of the statement reported to have been made by a  Mr J.  O Toole that a 5-month ban would be imposed on exports to certain countries which he nominated? Does the Government agree with that proposed action? If not, what course of action does it propose to follow? 
-The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Act 1964 is now to be repealed as a necessary but probably the least important thing to do with the change in road transport legislation. When the Bill was brought in in 1 964 it was undoubtedly a very forward thinking Bill and a very good Bill, but it is interesting to read in  Hansard  of the time that even then it was opposed. It is equally interesting to find now that its repeal is being opposed. The success that the legislation and the operation that it set up had is probably what has mainly led to its demise. The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads has done very well and has achieved a very high regard both in Australia and overseas. I think that it has a status and a stature that would be envied by many other organisations and bodies. In this regard I would like to make specific reference to the excellent contribution made by  Mr Loxton  and to the fact that he contributed very largely to seeing that the job was finally completed. 
I have always firmly supported the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. The new arrangements have caused me, like so many others, to think quite a lot about what it will do and how it will work. I too have received letters from many local councils, as arranged by their federal body- letters which were sent out at a time when the information was not available. All the letters that I received from councils were based on a premise that was never established. In Tasmania I have seen members of about 12 councils and I have written probably to a further twenty, which is about 75 per cent of all the councils in Tasmania. Since I have either spoken to them or written to them not one council has written back or commented in any way to the effect that they were still of the opinion that they originally expressed. For my own part I looked both backwards and forwards to see what had been done and what was likely to come. To try to get the basic principle into some sort of perspective I looked in the  Year Book  for 1975 for a reference to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and found that there are 822 000 kilometres of roads in Australia. This represents twice the per head distance of countries like Canada and New Zealand. With all the climatic vagaries that Australia has, we have to remember that distance is Australia's cross. We have to consider the very element of the distance and the 7 682 000 square kilometres that comprise Australia 4000 kilometres from north to south and from east to west- make it an absolute nightmare as far as transport is concerned. In Western Australia in particular, with 2.5 million square kilometres and a population of only about one million people, the provision of transport is extremely difficult. 
Also we have to consider that the growth in road transport has been extremely spectacular. In 1 965 there were 0.32 cars per head of population and by 1975 this had risen to 0.44. By 1980 it is estimated that there will be 0.5 cars per head of population, which is an increase of 50 per cent in 1 5 years- a 50 per cent increase on what had been regarded as being fairly normal growth. However, with this growth in car population there has been a decline in population density. As general affluence has increased, so has the mileage per car. 
People no longer try to live close to their jobs. This criterion has become secondary. As a result, the mileage rate is increasing by 3.6 per cent per car per year. We also ought to take into account that in 1 954, 65 per cent of the population lived in the cities but by 1971 this had grown to 71 per cent and had created considerable added congestion which, again, had not been planned for earlier. I do not like reciting a lot of statistics but I think it is necessary to include some basic information so that we can see the extent of the problem. I should like to add finally the fact that in 1965 there were 3.6 million cars and by 1975 there were 5.9 million cars- a rise of 64 per cent. By 1980, it is estimated that there will be 6.9 million cars- an increase of a further 16 per cent. That is the rate at which the problem is catching up and passing us. 
With that background, I now ask: What is the future of the Australian car? I think that we have to look at it not only in relation to roads but also we have to consider that commerce, industry, housing, environment and, most of all, people, are all part of the problem of the car. Public transport, private transport, trains, trams, ferries and aeroplanes are all part of the same picture and they all have to fit in and they all have to be part of the overall picture. We have to assess the value of the services versus costs. I think I need go no further at the moment than to say that what we have at present simply is not good enough. I think all honourable senators agree with that. Is the service going to change or are the people going to change? Do we settle for the almighty car? Who is going to pay? Should we continue to knock down thousands more houses so that we can have more freeways and more parking stations which will result, of course, in more pollution, noise and so on? It will take all of the resources that we can muster to produce an answer before we even start to try to correct the problem. Plenty of alternatives are being offered. I have heard of many. I have heard people promoting the idea that there should be immense taxes on cars or petrol; that there should be immense parking fees; that we should ban cars from the centres of the cities altogether; that we should provide free buses; that we should provide monstrous parking areas at railway stations; and that we should provide free city bus services from the train depots. All these ideas bring to mind the question of who pays and is the cost reasonable? How much of the central cities and inner suburbs should be torn down to make room for roads and car parks? Should we consider producing tax inducements of some magnitude or severe penalties to ensure that people use the suburbs more? 
Public transport at the moment serves those who are best able to serve themselves. It fails to look after the people who were so aptly described by Nicholas Clark as YOPHS-the young, the old, the poor, the helpless and handicapped and the sick. Public transport does very little for any of those groups. It really serves the people who are able to make their own arrangements quite satisfactorily. This particular aspect alone is one which will need examination in greater depth in the future. The costs of transport cannot be continually ignored and cannot be overlooked. Trains alone in Australia lose $750m a year in running costs. Allowing nothing for interest and nothing for depreciation, this represents 10 per cent of the total income tax collection in Australia. When one takes into account the costs of the Melbourne loop, a new Sydney airport, a second Sydney bridge or the West Gate bridge, one is dealing in figures that have reached a level that we have not had to take into account in Australia before. These figures are getting higher and we are left with them. We cannot be sure of the future but we can expect that the car will remain the main item with which we will have to deal in the field of transport. In years to come there will be more cars, more kilometres travelled, more people, more noise and more pollution. We must mobilise all expertise at the top level to prevent further decline and to provide the service required at a cost that the public can afford and is prepared to pay. 
I am well satisfied that the proposals put forward in this legislation can help. 1 have examined, point by point, the items raised by local government in relation to this matter. I should like to deal with them in order. I do not consider that it is a case of losing something or of getting something as good but of getting something better. I should like to go through the points that were raised by local government associations in a document I have before me and the points which were contained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I will deal with one point at a time. The first question asked by local government associations was whether the amalgamation should be effected by legislation rather than administrative decision. In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
There have been suggestions that the new BTE should be established by an Act of Parliament, that its powers, duties and procedures should be set out in legislation. The Government has given careful consideration to this question and has reached the firm conclusion that legislation is not required. The present BTE is not established by legislation but is attached to the Department of Transport . . . The new BTE will be able to react to changing circumstances. 
The second point raised was that the Bureau should be attached to the Department rather than incorporated within the Department. The Minister stated: 
There has been a degree of concern expressed at the Government's action in amalgamating the 2 bureaus. This is quite understandable given the success the bureaus have both enjoyed in undertaking their respective duties. I repeat, however, those same duties will continue to be undertaken, but we believe to an even greater degree of success. 
The Government is confident that practice will show the new Bureau providing an even better service to governments at all levels and industry than the separate bureaus have in the past. 
The third point was that all previous policy advisory functions should be maintained. The answer to that one is that the new body will continue the present functions of both the present bureaus. The primary functions will be to assist and advise the Government. Its duties will be in part to undertake evaluations of the Australian road situation; to advise and assist the Australian Government in its consideration of financial assistance; advise and assist the formulation of policies aimed at the reduction of transport costs; undertake research and advise on the improvement of transport efficiency; advise and assist on the rationalised planning of transport facilities; advise on the optimal allocation of resources in the transport field; and assess and advise on transport planning and administration procedures. 
The fourth point was that advice should be direct to the Minister for Transport rather than through the Department which has responsibility for the other transport modes. The Minister said in his second reading speech: 
As I have already said the new BTE will act independently of the Department of Transport in research activities and in giving advice to the Government. I repeat, its Director will continue to have free access to the Minister for Transport. That is the Government's clear policy and direction on this matter. 
The last point is that the Director should be given senior status with a high level of professional and administrative autonomy and possess wide practical experience. The answer to that one is that the rights of officers and employees of the Bureau will be safeguarded. The Minister said: 
I am sure that members of the Bureau of Roads who transfer to the new Bureau of Transport Economics will quickly appreciate the greater career opportunities available to them. 
Those are the points that were raised earlier and the answers that are given. I have found no major objection raised by the people to whom I have given those answers. 
We must also consider that the decision on amalgamation was supported by the Coombs task force. At page 1 66 of its report it stated: 
It is no more sensible to maintain two separate bodies both concerned with the economics of transport than it would be to maintain a Bureau of Agricultural Economics and a Bureau of Wool Economics. If the two Bureaus were amalgamated, the whole would be more useful and powerful, in an analytical sense, than the two separately . . . 
I think we all have to agree that that is basically commonsense providing we get the goods in the end, and I for one am satisfied that we are getting them. If the new body can carry out the work that is being done by the Bureau of Transport Economics there is no real objection to the amalgamation of the 2 bodies. If it is able to cover Commonwealth policy concerning the reduction of transport costs, improvement in transport efficiency, co-ordination of transport systems and rationalised planning of future transport facilities, I do not think we should look to any more from it than that. There is no doubt that the new organisation will provide greater efficiency and remove a lot of the overlapping which could take place under the present system. The new body will also enable the Government to obtain full utilisation of the people involved and to get the maximum out of the expertise that is available. 
I would like to conclude with just a word or two on the transport situation in the island State. Tasmania may have only 67 800 square kilometres of area and only 1 8 500 kilometres of road or 0.46 kilometres of road per head, but what it does have that is different from other States is 300 kilometres of water between it and its nearest neighbour, and that is separation. Those honourable senators who remember the pre-air service days would know what that separation then meant but since then there have been many changes. We now have jet air services, overnight freights, roll-on roll-off ferries and freight equalisation and there is talk of hydrofoils. We have all that, but last week we did have total isolation. Total isolation does not involve only monetary cost and great inconvenience; it involves for more. As far as Tasmania was concerned there will always remain the scars of lasting damage that go with the loss of markets and the loss of tourists who will never come back, and things of that sort. The people of Tasmania do not care who is at fault. It does not matter. It is not right that disagreements be settled in the way that they were settled because the whole of the State suffers and it suffers permanently. Transport is of no use unless it is reliable. Anything that can be done through this legislation I hope will assist our transport problems. I look forward to the implementation of the intentions of this legislation and I support the Bill. 
I support the passage of the Life Insurance Amendment Bill and the Insurance Amendment Bill. I shall make a few comments which I believe are relevant at this time. Very few people fully appreciate the size and stature of the insurance industry. The 45 life assurance companies and approximately 220 fire and general insurance companies spread throughout Australia control an awfully large proportion of the business of Australia and do a great deal towards adding to the stability of both business and private life. The proposals being put forward have been approved by the industry with the reservation that it generally feels that they have not gone quite far enough. I certainly agree with this. I think there is plenty of room for further amendments to the Acts. I hope that over the next year or so at the most we will be able to have a new Life Insurance Act. It has been a good Act. It is now being partially brought up to date. The money values in the legislation are being changed. The Treasury is still working on this matter. The industry has made substantial submissions to Treasury. While not many of its submissions have been taken into account at this stage I believe that they will come up in the next set of amendments proposed or, hopefully, in a new Act. 
I mentioned the size of the industry. Over $3 billion a year is paid by Australians into life, fire or general insurance. Another figure worth remembering, just to give more weight to this industry, is that in the field of natural disasters the cyclone in Darwin cost the fire and general insurance companies between $180m and $200m. It was the biggest payout ever in Australia. What is interesting is that it was a complete industry loss. With the systems of reinsurance and co-operation, both in Australia and overseas, of this $ 180m to $200m approximately $130m was paid in by overseas companies. I shall comment on a couple of other areas. I believe that clause 36 of the Life Insurance Amendment Bill is probably the most important clause in that it allows the minimum valuation basis to be updated. This will be a great value to all policy holders and will enable higher bonuses to be paid. The appeals areas have been extended and the Administrative Appeals Tribunal clause will be implemented to allow for a wider range of appeals. 
An area that I would like to see under scrutiny is what is referred to as the 30/20 rule. I hope that in the next series of changes we may find that more flexibility can be introduced into this rule. With the amount of money that the insurance industry handles, I believe that we must ensure that the investment of that money is for the greatest national good. I query that it is for the greatest national good if the 30 per cent has to be put into government security at a low rate of interest, which prevents the policyholders from obtaining a reasonable bonus. They are the owners of the money. The benefits that come from it should be theirs. 
The change in investment patterns during the last few years has been significant and has reflected various changes in the financial structure not only of the insurance industry but of the commercial sector as a whole. It is interesting to note that between 1965 and 1975 life companies changed their investment in fixed assetsproperty, furniture, etc.- from 9.8 per cent to 21.8 per cent, at the same time reducing the investment in mortgages and loans from 33 per cent to 18 per cent. I think that is quite a noticeable trend. At the same time, investments in government securities, local securities, debentures, secured and unsecured notes, preference shares, ordinary shares, holdings in controlled companies, etc., have varied only from 57 per cent to 58 per cent. The insurance industry has done a lot for Australia. Industry at large could not have advanced without the protection of insurance. 
The main reason that people still buy life assurance is for security. The second reason is for an investment. Primarily it is for security. Whichever way it is taken, life assurance has to compete with all the other investment forms for funds. There is a strong and competitive industry. The companies compete very highly for business. The standards of insurance in Australia are the equivalent at least of the standards anywhere in the world. The main trend in the last few years has been the change from ordinary life assurance to superannuation. I believe that is a trend that we will continue to see in the next few years. Between 1971 and 1975 there was an increase of 39 per cent in annual premiums in ordinary insurance business, while in superannuation business the increase was 1 19 per cent. In industrial business the increase has been only 14 per cent. I think I can do no more than support the passage of the Bills. I agree with the Opposition on this course. 
I rise to give my full support to the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Amendment Bill 1977. 1 do not do so because I like it but because I see it as a short term necessity or what we might call a band-aid and an aspirin while we wait for the doctor. By next year I hope to see a vastly better scheme as part of an overall housing plan. All the main Acts that provide housing funds under various headings in the community are all treated in a politically loaded manner and too seldom are debated publicly. For instance, if I dared mention changes to, say, the Aboriginal housing set-up, I am sure  Senator Cavanagh  would be in the picture. If I started to discuss defence Service homes I am sure that  Senator Bishop  would be in the picture. When we start to discuss aged persons or dwellings for pensioners  Senator Grimes  comes into the picture. This occurs before we even start to get round to talking about the big one- the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. 
The whole system of housing funding can be improved. It has to be improved if the maximum assistance is to be given to those we want to help, those with the best entitlements. Too much money for housing gets fiddled away or winds up going to the wrong people with an insufficient priority. I know that the money spent could produce more houses and cover the greatest need areas better than it does at present. I shall be doing all I can to prevent the perpetuation of what I have seen clearly demonstrated as being far less than ideal. 
The community care of our aged has been one of the major sociological changes in Australia during the last 10 years or thereabouts. Greater affluence in the community on the one hand has brought greater independence on the other. To many the normal course of making room for the aged parent no longer fits into the social scheme. It has changed substantially. We are in an age when we are seeing the results of longer life and earlier retirement. These too are influencing the situation very greatly. When the wide range of valuable philanthropic organisations moved into the field of housing for the aged, they were able to do a great deal. They built the framework of the new system. With a strong local and civic basis their organisations have been of great advantage. The high level of local involvement has been the secret of their success. They have achieved remarkable success rates. Whether they have built accommodation in units of two or three or whole retirement villages, the community units have come to be very much part of the community as a whole. 
I can see a few changes that would be desirable but I look forward to a strong continuation for years to come of a system in which those who can help themselves will be encouraged to do so and those in need of help will have it provided. There is still a great under-utilisation of resources in the housing field. A correction of this situation will require, firstly, the optimum utilisation of funds from the public sector to house those in the greatest need and, secondly, a far wider involvement of the private sector to ensure the greatest utilisation possible of the resources available. It is my hope that some of the suggestions being made currently in this area will be approved and that the whole system can start from a new base and meet the sociological revolution concerning the housing of the aged. The implications of the Holmes report are also under scrutiny. Such recommendations as would affect the overall position have to be identified and dealt with. Many reports are now available covering the housing of the aged and considerable information is available on the public record. How this information is used is of the greatest importance. I hope that the various parliamentary and party committees will give the evidence they receive the fullest consideration with a view to making the best arrangements possible for those whose due is that they should be adequately provided for. 
Sitting suspended from 12.54 to 2.15 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. With the collapse of a number of Australian apparel manufacturers, those who stood by those manufacturers for as long as possible by buying the Australian made goods are now being penalised in that they are being prevented from obtaining quotas for overseas supplies by reason of the allocation of import quotas to those confederates who, by their level of imports, were substantially responsible for the downfall of the Australian industry. As considerable Press and industry speculation exists on matters relating to the auctioning of or tendering for import quotas for textiles or apparel, can the Minister advise whether discussions will be held for the reallocation of import entitlements, having regard to the great changes that have taken place in the retail trade since quotas were applied? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Science. Can the Minister advise what progress is being made in the development of efficient colder climate dung beetles? What trials are being carried out and is Tasmania included in the current experiments, as I know of several farmers who are keen to participate in such trials? 
I should like to follow up the fishing question with the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the losses incurred in the detection and apprehension of foreign fishing vessels in Australian waters, has the Minister considered, or will the Minister consider, making changes to the penalties for the offence from confiscation to one of fines? Evidence at an Estimates Committee indicated a loss of approximately $10,000 per vessel apprehended and minimal recoveries only on the vessels concerned. This indicated that fines and costs may be more appropriate and that the countries whose vessels fish these waters may well be prepared to agree to such a change. Will the Minister put this proposal forward? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the vast over supply of potatoes in Victoria this year, is the Minister aware that in January there was an import of 164 568 kilograms of dehydrated potato, equal to more than 1000 tonnes of fresh equivalent, into Victoria at a value of 65c a kilogram? Can the Minister advise who imported this product and how it compares with the Australian product in price and quality? Will the Minister ensure that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs is aware of this position when considering the Industries Assistance Commission submission on the potato industry and the effects that the import of dehydrated potatoes has on the price structure for Australian growers and processors alike. 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Transport. The transport problems of King Island are well known. Last week the Minister,  Mr Nixon,  gave approval for the sale of 2 DC4s from Qantas Airways Ltd to Brain and Brown Airfreighters Pty Ltd, conditional upon the proprietor cancelling the purchase of 2 Carvairs on which I understand $100,000 deposit has been paid and which would be lost. Can the Minister advise whether the conditions are still as stated, whether or not they have been accepted and whether or not a reasonable service will be continued? 
-There always has been a lot of fascination about driving or owning trains. It reached its height at a time when various people rushed off and brought 2 beaten-up train sets at the one time. That was taking matters a little too far but we are left stuck with the fact now. However the sale gave great pleasure at the time to those 2 second-hand dealers, Dunstan and Neilson. They thought they had well and truly got stuck with their old train sets until they found this willing and anxious buyer who charged along, paid double the price and did not ask for any guarantees or anything. It did not matter whether the trains worked or not. That was the way it happened. 
When train services were set up originally in the late 19th century trains were very much the big thing because it was pre-automobile days and the choice was either trains or horses. At that stage it was very important that adequate transport should be provided and it was decided that it should be trains. That was the only other means of transport. In Tasmania the trains started in about 1865 and they did not reach their peak, I think, until 1930. The length of track reached 1093 kilometres. This length has been reduced to 850 kilometres by a few closures. But the rail system still exists and it is very important. It still has a place to fill. We regret that it has suffered from between 20 and 30 years of absolutely total neglect, a total avoidance of all responsibility, particularly great ineptitude and just plain bad management all rolled into one. 
By 1967-68 the Tasmanian Railways had reached the stage where they were losing $1 per train kilometre. By 1970 the figure had passed $2 and by 1975-76 it had passed $3. Still, losses on trains are nothing new and they are not small. At a recent transport seminar I attended I was told that the Australian loss on trains has now reached approximately $650m a year or approximately 10 per cent of the total personal taxation paid in a year. Rail costs seem high because every bit of them is totally identifiable whereas road transportation costs are not. Railways produce balance sheets but road transportation does not. If we could transfer more of the heavy traffic from the roads to the railways we could remove a lot of the overall transport loss. 
As  Senator Mulvihill  said recently when we were talking about roads, there is still not enough integration or an overall traffic policy. If we could put more of the heavier cargoes onto the railways and less on the roads it would be better for both systems. We could reduce the losses on one and save a lot of the costs on the other. 
The main purpose of railways is to handle the long hauls and the bulk cargoes. But we have to update railways somewhere along the line. At present the costs of loading, unloading, shunting and things of that sort are the main costs. If rail is to remain the force that it should be, a lot of changes will have to be made in the most expensive areas of use. There will have to be more encouragement to use rail and possibly even some disincentives not to but this will have to be considered in line with road costs and rail losses. 
The Joy report was given much publicity in Tasmania in particular. It is an independent assessment. While there are several items in it that I do not like and feel at the moment I cannot fully support, I accept that they are probably quite correct. However, they must be considered fully. When due consideration has been given to all the issues then certainly some action will be necessary. I would like to quote one or two of the conclusions of the report. The first states: 
Tasmanian Railways has slid into its present losses (nearly $3 for every $1 revenue in the current year) because of increasing road competition for traditional traffic, and the entering of some bulk freight contracts on unfavourable terms. 
The unfavourable terms are quite a feature of most of the contracts that apply to the Tasmanian rail system. The third conclusion states: 
Without radical changes in the traffics which are carried, and the methods of operating, Tasmanian Railways' deficits will rise explosively from their present level of over $9,000 per head of staff. 
I repeat, 'over $9,000 per head of staff'. The seventh one states: 
Tasmanian Railways will never make a profit, but it should be possible in a few years to reduce the deficit. 
Conclusion No. 2 1 was as follows: 
In attempts to make the limited track maintenance funds go as far as possible, Tasmanian Railways has been forced to make a number of doubtful economies. 
I suppose that derailments at the rate of about one a week could be classified as doubtful economies. Just how long some goods remain either on the track or beside the track while repairs are being made is becoming really alarming. 
In summary, while it is nothing to be proud of, one of Tasmania's greats is that it has the worst rail system in Australia. Nobody will argue with that point. The recommendations and implications of the Joy report have to be considered fairly thoroughly. Various recommendations have been made concerning 3 lines in Tasmania. One is the line to Circular Head, one is the northeastern line, and the other is the line for the passenger service known as the Tasman Limited. I took up the matter of the Circular Head rail system with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I was aware of the fears that residents had of total closure of the line. They said that  Dr Joy  had taken incorrect information into account. 
The Circular Head area has several industries -dairying, meat, timber and fish in particular. The people rely on transport to get their goods interstate. There is a shipping service from Stanley but the majority of the traffic is usually via Burnie and sometimes Devonport. It is important that the people have a completely reliable service. At present practically all the traffic is carried by road because that method is reliable. I discussed the matter with each of the industries in the area and nobody told me that he would not use rail if rail were provided in a way that he could use. I approached Australian National Railways to see whether it would be prepared to quote a one-up rate for a partly rail and partly sea transport system from Smithton to Melbourne. While I understand that a representative of the ANR has been to Smithton and interviewed representatives of industries concerned, I also understand that no proposition has been put forward yet. In the meantime the very survival of the Circular Head line is in the balance. I want the read portion of the letter dated 3 May I received from  Mr Nixon.  It says in part: 
The Committee has not recommended closure of the railways beyond Wiltshire Junction, but has recommended that full load traffic only be accepted in the Stanley/Smithton area, with loading and unloading by the shippers . . . unless the cost of operations in the Stanley/Smithton area can be substantially reduced, the rail services in question have a very limited future ... the future of the Tasmanian rail system, including the lines to Smithton and Stanley, will be made only after a detailed examination of the Committee's report and taking account of the views of the Tasmanian Government. 
That is what is important at the moment. We must see that the local interests are fully protected. I am not so sure about the future of the passenger service. It is poorly patronised, it is expensive, it has become badly out of date, it is too slow and so on. A lot was said in the Press 12 months ago about the possible closure of the rail, with people saying that it was too expensive to retain. An estimate by people who could calculate the volume of traffic normally carried in Tasmania indicates that it would take 450 semitrailers on 2 shifts a day and $25m to $30m spent on the roads to shift the same amount of traffic that the Tasmanian rail currently shifts, in spite of the problems that it has. To do that would throw such items as logs, sulphuric acid, cement, ores and a lot more containers on to the roads. The roads certainly are not equipped to cope with that. 
The main purpose of the legislation was stated as being to enable the ANR Commission to manage the State railways in accordance with agreements between the Commonwealth and South Australia and the Commonwealth and Tasmania. As far as the employees are concerned, it is a tidy-up act. The retirement scheme that has been put forward has now been dealt with sufficiently so that it seems to satisfy the unions concerned. I quote from the Tasmanian Press recently.  Mr David  Northey, State Secretary of the Australian Railways Union, was quoted as saying that it appeared that 'Tasmania's rail workers would benefit from the transfer' and that 'personnel would either retain their wage position or improve their earnings'. That is a long way from what was stated less than 12 months ago, in September 1 976, when the  President  of the ARU in Tasmania,  Mr Doug  Jones, said that the State's 2000 railway employees could be out of work and the Tasmanian railways system scrapped. I am glad that that did not come about. I fully understand the problems that the railway employees faced at the time. I refer to page 63 of  Dr Joy's  report. He said: 
At the end of September 1976, Tasmanian Railways employed 1955 staff. Staff numbers have fallen considerably over recent years from a peak of 2956 in 1 955. 
At page 77 he said: 
The major benefit which Tasmanian Railways bestows on Tasmania at the moment is that, by employing about 800 more people than can be justified on social benefit grounds, and about 1 500 more people than could be justified on crude financial grounds, it brings in between $8m and $l5m each year in payrolls . . . 
On that basis I understand the feelings of the employees. I refer now to one or two particular items. Section 46, sub-section (2), sets up a provision for a normal appeals board set-up. The employment questions generally are regularised in line with similar employment. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is to replace the Public Service Arbitrator. We must remember that there are severe problems in a small organisation such as the Tasmanian Railways. There are 24 unions, 26 awards and 600 classifications. I notice that a  speaker  in the other House said that in his opinion there were too many unions. The question of retirement at age 60 years, with the permission of the Commissioner, is universally approved. The giving to members of the option of retaining their State rights is also generally applauded. Proposed new section 46, sub-section (5), irons out the misconduct question. I am very pleased that  Mr Northey,  on behalf of his union, has given basic approval to all these things. 
Even the then State Minister,  Mr Chisholm,  who was very rapt in certain aspects, was quoted in the Press of 13 August as agreeing that the Commonwealth had relieved the State Government of debt charges totalling $63.3m. That, together with the Federal Government paying $5m for operating costs per year and the statement by the Commonwealth Minister in the last week or so that the Commonwealth would expend $23m for upgrading of the system, certainly sounds like being a fairly good deal for Tasmania. Tasmanians, I can assure the Government, are very satisfied with the treatment that they have had. I feel that I must read this little piece that appeared in the  Examiner  last year, at the time that  Mr Chisholm  was complaining. There was a letter in the Press which stated: 
In the fairyland of Tasmanian politics - 
We know what is meant there-  we are witnessing scenes of sheer hypocrisy and railwaymen in the audience should fully understand the depths in which the scenes underline their sell-out 12 months ago. 
The Premier,  Mr Neilson,  sits in his corner, pulls his budget plum out of the economic pie and says what a good boy am i. 
He also tells us that the sale of the railways made it so. 
He tells us that the railways were a liability but he does not say that 20 years of Labor Government mismanagement gave us the shambles of a railway that exists today. 
He tells railwaymen for the first time of their near brush with industrial death. 
The alternative to selling them', he said, 'was to close them down'. 
Anybody working in the industry must wonder whether that was the State Government's opinion only, or whether others are thinking on those lines now, from the federal side of the fence. 
Then we have the State Minister for Transport,  Mr Chisholm  as Cinderella, sitting in the ashes of his old railway and shedding crocodile tears as he tells of Demon King Nixon's threat to break the agreement if freight rates are not increased. 
He says we are being forced by the Federal Government to increase the rates, as though the ANRC has no right to look after the revenue of the bankrupt railway which it inherited. 
There would be no opposition to the 1 5 per cent increase if it were a State Government decision because such finance would be going to the State Treasury. 
By opposing the ANRC direction, the State Government was trying to obtain a further Federal Government subsidy for Tasmanian freight. 
The hypocritical position would then be that the unwanted railways would incur further losses to suit a State administration that had already said they were a liability. 

 Mr Nixon (the Federal Minister) could not break the rail agreement, and if  Mr Chisholm  reads the legislation which he helped to pass he would know this. 
Making cheap political capital out of the situation does neither the State or its railwaymen any good. 
The facts are that the ANRC can vary the rates and services of the railway and its directives are mandatory. 
This was agreed to by the Whitlam and Neilson governments and has nothing to do with political claptrap. 
It was signed by R. C. Robertson, State Secretary, National Union of Railwaymen. The whole of the Australian railway system is under scrutiny at present. I suggest that the statement in the White Paper on manufacturing industry stressing the need for flexibility and the ability to cope with necessary changes in industry applies also to the transport situation. Changes are essential. Innovations and rethinking are imperative for survival. I am a person who genuinely supports the rail. An adequate system is necessary. Particularly in the case of the Tasmanian rail service, a limit must be set on the standards and the financing of it. I hope this is one of the things to which we can look forward. Rail has an important place. I think finally I should quote this statement of the Minister in his second reading speech: 
Rail services must be provided to meet the needs of the States concerned at the least cost to the community and inquiries such as these undertaken by  Dr Joy  will assist the Government and the Commission to decide how this is to be achieved. 
I think that is the basis of it. I commend the Bill. 
-As a member of the organisation which from the early 1960s did so much to have the system of housing loans insurance established in Australia, I support this Bill with great enthusiasm. It is the second half of the total mortgage insurance package. To me, it is very much part of Liberal housing policy and liberal-thinking housing policy. To understand the purpose of the Bill, we must go back to the early 1960s, in the days when home loans were restricted to something like 50 per cent or 60 per cent of the valuation. At that time the commencement of the system of mortgage insurance added millions of potential home owners to the market by enabling lenders to lend substantially more than they had in the past. As with everything else, as an action it had a corresponding reaction. It was no exception. There were many immediate advantages of the system. The disadvantages which it brought must be remembered, because it created a demand both for houses and money which had been unprecedented in the years before. Both of these factors tended to increase the price of houses when the system started. 
The system commenced in fits and starts. There were times when the demand grew very quickly. There were other times when it slowed down. There were times when it was necessary for the Government to put various constrictions on the money made available. Looking back now, I am prepared to admit that while the decisions were unpopular at the time they were nonetheless necessary, as can clearly be seen now. The position carried on for longer than I think was expected then because at that time we were going through a period of steady increases in income and steady predictable growths in the national economy as a whole. The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation and mortgage insurance generally did much to keep the system going. The pressures that they placed on ownership in the early years produced some relief in the rental market. As one went ahead, the other was relieved to some extent. Many of the tenants at that time who had been unable to purchase until then became potential purchasers. 
On this basis Australia became one of the top home owning countries. There are no records which show that Australia was at any stage close to 9 out of 10 of its people being potential home purchasers. There is no information available today which would indicate that the number of potential home purchasers is down to two out of ten. These comments do not do anything to further the cause of the Bill. There is no doubt that since the war mortgage insurance has been the most significant single change in the conventional housing policies of the country, and it must be recognised as such. 
This is an important Bill, as was the first one. In any total housing policy, mortgage guarantee or mortgage insurance will of necessity be the cornerstone. At the commencement of the system there were no commercial entrants. It was not envisaged at that stage that there would be any. When the legislation came forward it was noted that provision had not been made for them. This was taken up with the Government of the day, because it was felt that provision should have been made then. Now, after this long period has elapsed, that provision is being incorporated. There was no doubt that the introduction of nongovernment insurers was welcomed by the HLIC and by the investing public at large. It certainly added a lot of zing to the HLIC and put it on its toes, to the stage at which it became a very virile operative organisation. I am fortunate to have been in close association with the HLIC since it commenced. It certainly comes to my notice that my old and dear friend Lyle Moore did so much for it before it got off the ground. He was later one of its commissioners. The same can be said of Frank Blundell who is still with it and who has been with it from the very early days, in a range of activities, and who looks like staying with it for some time to come. 
The Corporation was never an organisation set up to produce vast profits, but it was set up to perform a necessary function. It took some years before it had sufficient profits to take it out of the range of organisations which may have needed government support. It is really only in the last few years, since 1970, that the profits have been of any magnitude. I note that for each of the financial years from 1970-71 to 1973-74 it made over Sim profit. It made $2.4m in 1974-75 and almost $3m in 1975-76. With the aid of those profits, it produced reserves of $ 12.7m to this date. It is a business that needs some capital because, being a once-only premium which will cover long term mortgage, there is a long term liability, even allowing for a reasonable rate of inflation. 
I am unable to understand the objection expressed to the paying of some of the reserves out of the funds of the HLIC. People with a good grip of insurance and finance believed that it was perfectly safe to remove $4.5m from the reserves, as they would serve no purpose there, when that money could be put to far better use in other ways. After allowing for all the contingencies, the funds of the organisation are still in excess of $8m. That is held to be sufficient for any eventuality. I am very pleased that the organisation is now to pay normal commercial operating costs, stamp duty, taxation and dividend. It is a good organisation. It has proved itself through the years, and it is capable of standing on its own feet. It has done so until now and will continue to do so. The people involved are not looking for any props to put under it. They are not looking for any special inside running to take advantage of their competitors; nor do they need it. The Corporation has established itself as a virile competitor. Now that it has been freed of some of the constrictions which it had, it is able to move in the market place and to compete in a red blooded way with any competitor. It can take the same risks. It can pay the same overheads. It can have a full competitive place in the market. 
On the other hand, it will encourage private operators to do likewise. Whatever is said to the contrary, it can be only for the good of the market to have virile competition from the outside sector. I think it is a very good move to allow it to cover mortgages on land. It is easy for us to look back now and say that, if that had been the case over the last 10 or 15 years, we would not have suffered all the problems we have in regard to the sale of land under vendor terms. I trust that those States that have not already done so will now be able to make provision for the complete banning of vendor terms. 
I am pleased to see also the legislation extended to cover rental property. That is long overdue, since rental property represents the biggest shortage in the present market. Any assistance which can be given to allow people to build rental housing will be greatly appreciated. During the time that it has been in operationduring that time it has insured $3.5 billion worth of mortgages for 235 000 insurers- the HLIC has done very well. I trust that it will continue to expand. 
Mortgage insurance has done more than anything else to influence the housing money market of Australia. It has had a tremendous influence on the building society movement and has really taken it from the relatively small position that it occupied 1 5 years ago to one of great strength in the housing business today. Building societies have gone through a period of tremendous growth. Mortgage insurance has completely stabilised their market, has made them a respected investment and has encouraged people to invest with them. 
During this period we have seen the trebling of the number of 2-income families. The higher incomes and greater savings have generated considerable funds which have gone into housing. Losses during the period have been absolutely minimal. A loss would be quite easy in inflationary times when a 95 per cent loan in one year is perhaps an 80 per cent loan the next year or when a 90 per cent loan in 1 965 would probably be less than a 50 per cent loan now. But that was not always the position. In the early years of stability and growth the situation kept everybody honest and really good management was required to see that the risks were calculated correctly, that they were well covered and of a good, sound nature. 
I commend the Corporation for the excellent management that it has had during its period of operation. The HLIC has made a most valuable contribution in all sectors of housing- construction, sales and finance. Great credit is due to the founders for what they did in the early days. I greatly appreciate the value that the Government places on it and the position it holds. I have said before, and I say again, that when introduced the legislation setting up the Corporation was the best single piece of legislation to deal with housing since the war; and it still is. The amendments proposed by the Bill before the Senate will make it better. It still definitely is the cornerstone of any total and integrated housing policy, in that it encourages home ownership, produces private sector participation, enables the public sector to concentrate on the needs area, and adds great stability all round. I give the Bill my full support. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. A telegram received today from the Premier of Tasmania makes several extravagant assertions as to the disadvantages to the smaller States in the changes to the role of the Grants Commission arising from the proposed changes to the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act. Can the Minister advise whether  Mr Neilson  has the right impression, whether it is the intention of the Government to advantage New South Wales and Victoria at the expense of the smaller States, or whether his concern is unjustified? 
Having received representations for additional staff in the guidance division of the Department of Education in North-Western Tasmania, I ask whether the Minister for Education can advise whether under any of the functions of his portfolio he can provide assistance, or is the staff allocation entirely a matter for the State authorities? What should those people who contact me do? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of reports which indicate that sales of meat to the United States of America are running at less than our United States quota average due to the poor American prices being paid, can the Minister ascertain what steps will be taken to encourage exporters to fill the total quota? Can he ascertain whether real risks of having next year's quota reduced will arise if that for the current year is not filled? At the present rate, the shortfall would appear to be approximately 50 000 tonnes. 
I support the 5 dairy industry Bills now before the Senate. Whilst I would like to speak at some considerable length, which I believe these matters deserve, I will react to the necessities of the situation and act in the interests of the Senate and in keeping with the general co-operation that has been extended by other speakers this evening. I think it would be fair to say that no other industry, primary or secondary, has had to adjust to the extent that the dairy industry has had to do in the last few years. I do not think there is any industry in which it came as such a surprise either to the industry or to the community as a whole. It has been suggested that the industry might need to revamp, but I think that at all levels people believed it would still come right again, even though they understood for many years that- 
Debate interrupted. 
-I believe that the importance of Great Britain's inclusion in the European Economic Community had been overlooked and that many of the problems that have arisen were as a result of that. In the main dairying areas of Australia we have undoubtedly efficiency second to none in the world. I do not think it is easy for us to write off the effect that that has right throughout the industry when we know how efficient we are but, just the same, we have to adjust and it is not very easy. Over the period that the numbers have been declining from over 60 000 farmers to fewer than 30 000 farmers there has been, just the same, constant upgrading of stock, better feeding, better management, increased productivity and more efficiency generally, which have largely counteracted the decline which the reduction in numbers may have produced. Many of the improvements that have been made are really quite remarkable, but they still have not prevented the decline that was needed in order to rationalise to the level of trade which is now available to the industry. The forces from both within and without Australia have led to this, particularly the EEC question which I have already mentioned. When that happened it left this most efficient and valuable industry very much in a heap. 
Within days of my election last year I started seeing dairy men, quite a few of whom are friends of mine whom I have known all my life. I was born on a dairy farm. The current tragedy of the situation came through to me very clearly. Coupled with the overseas collapse, the ravages of inflation and falling domestic consumption," everyone needed help. On 13 April last year  Mr John  Howard, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, put the matter to the Industries Assistance Commission. I am most grateful for the consideration and general help that I have received in so many places in Australia while I have been going around and trying to improve my understanding of the industry as a whole. While I was doing this I was very appreciative of the way that I was received everywhere I went. In all the places I went to among all the people I saw I found only two or three people who did not have sufficient understanding to realise why we were there. I would say that there were only two or three people from whom we had to suffer abuse of any sort. I found that the people who adopt an abusive attitude turn out to be counter productive for the people they presume to represent. 
The appalling seasonal conditions of last year, pertaining right through the latter part of 1976, served to make the overall position that much worse, and the industry really wound down towards the end of last year. When the Crawford report was received and we had more meetings in various places we found that generally the report was fairly hard to handle. Very few people understood it and very few people could see the relativity between the 3 sections or how they were going to tie in. It made the job of selling the new dairy situation fairly difficult. If it had been all in one piece it would have been difficult enough, but in 3 pieces it was even more difficult. In the period until now I have had many discussions with the Minister and the departmental officers. I appreciate the consideration that I have received to the suggestions that I have made and the requests that I have put. I feel it necessary to go on record in expressing my thanks both to the Minister and to the Department for the way in which they have helped me and the people I have tried to represent. 
I would like to issue something of a warning and say that stage 1 will not solve all the probelms of the dairy industry by any means. It is not a cure-all. But I hope that it leads us to a way in which we can find some assistance. In converting the entire industry to the management and operation of the Australian Dairy Corporation a tremendous responsibility is being placed on that body. The whole industry will be looking at one body- the ADC- to give the lead in organisation, marketing and technology. The industry will be looking for a lot of new technology, new products, new processing and new packaging. It will have to start to take more account of what the customer is looking for and not just what the market is trying to supply. Campaigns like the 'Only Butter Butters' will need to be more carefully planned and better carried through if they are to be successful. I believe that more and more the promotion has to be on the lines of what the market is looking for. We will have to find new avenues, and the ADC will be responsible for this. 
One of the problems from which we suffer is the sheer snobbery which goes with much of the cheese importing. In particular I draw the wood on the invasion by stealth of some of the cheeses that are coming in from New Zealand. In my view the Government is still not taking this matter seriously enough. I have been pressing for a revision of the method of classification of cheeses coming in from other countries and I will continue to do so, however long it takes. I respect our trading position with other countries and the import question generally but I do not accept that we can let our own industry go down the drain against the ravages of exporters in other countries who are being subsidised to put cheese into Australia on a price basis that can only be considered as dumping. I have no objection to other ordinary imports under regular methods and legitimate deals. 
As far as Tasmania is concerned I have a few still unresolved matters that will require quite a lot of attention. In Tasmania at present the plant utilisation is only between 50 per cent and 60 per cent, and this is resulting in a very high unit cost. The alternative to this high unit cost is to have amalgamations and probably the construction of a centralised dairy plant, at some considerable cost, which would have to pay a different set of higher costs than the ones currently in hand in order to reduce the costs on the other. At whatever cost, the fullest retention of the flexibility of the product mix is necessary. I have severe reservations on the distribution of entitlement and I do not envy whoever is going to be the new chairman of the new State authority in Tasmania as he will have to be a man of very great wisdom and judgment to ensure that the entitlement is distributed in the fairest possible way. How this is to be distributed between the 3 co-operatives and the 2 proprietaries, I do not know. I think everybody has a leaning either towards the cooperatives or towards the proprietaries, depending on their background. 
I raise one particular case in our area and that is the cast of Cadbury Confectionery. It runs a small milk processing operation in that the company handles exactly the quantity of milk it needs for its operations. It has done this for many years. The company does not interfere with any other suppliers of any sort. It pays a reasonable price depending on what it can stand. There is no way I can see that an organisation such as that should be included in any sort of a quota distribution. I do not think that its suppliers should be included either. But I do not see how we can organise a scheme that may leave one firm out on its own. 
The question of compulsory acquisition of fresh milk is one of the matters that has caused some problems in Victoria, as I understand from the previous  speaker  in the debate and gentlemen with whom I sit on this side of the House. I believe that I fully understand and appreciate the situation as it is explained to me. But what the dairy industry needs most particularly in Victoria, the biggest producing State- and my remarks are more applicable to Victoria than anywhere else-is stability. I do not go along with the situation that could leave any or all of the difficulties up in the air or not knowing when the next crisis is likely to arise. This is what it is all about. I believe that  Mr Smith,  while not wanting to see the farmers disadvantaged, has not considered all the possible disadvantages that could arise. But as the legislation provides that equalisation in this matter can be implemented only at the behest of the Australian Agricultural Council of which  Mr Smith  is a member, I do not see that he should be disturbed. 
I have substantial regrets about the phasing out of the equalisation organisation as we have known it. It has performed tremendously valuable service for many years. I think that far too few people fully understand and appreciate what that organisation has done. It certainly is due to come under some criticism. But its main crime is, I think, that it has done its job too well. It has so satisfactorily shielded both farmers and manufacturers from the full market signals that the industry has never really know the problems existed because equalisation covered it up. If the Australian Dairy Corporation can perform its functions as well as the equalisation committee has done, I and the dairy industry as a whole will be very happy. 
The initial product levy is aimed at arranging compulsory equalisation between the domestic price structure and the export sales on the range of products. As  Senator Primmer  has already outlined them, I will not repeat them. This is an extension of the present voluntary arrangement and is the basis of stage 1 of the scheme. The underwriting last year by the Government was of great assistance when the industry was in the trouble it encountered then. The purpose of the underwriting should be explained a little more to farmers. Its purpose is to enable payments to be made ahead of when they would otherwise be made by providing that guarantee from the Government for the money. In itself it is not necessarily a price support scheme although a couple of the pools last year turned out that way. 
Last year's opening underwriting was of the order of 50 cents per lb. It has now grown to approximately 65 cents per lb. But the final price will depend on the markets, the Australian supply, consumption generally and the efficiency of the factories concerned. It is all the more necessary to produce according to the markets available. This is where the duties of the ADC will become very difficult. I give a warning on this underwriting question also. It is much the same warning that was applicable under equalisation. It is not a way of covering inefficiency, wrong technology, wrong products or just bad marketing. The companies which may be tempted to make a quick and bad deal in the belief that underwriting will cover them I hope will be badly mistaken. The Australian Dairy Corporation has many added responsibilities that I do not think it has even started to know about yet. I certainly wish  Mr Webster  every success. Like the industry at large, I support this part of the dairy legislation in the hope that we can settle in as quickly as possible and get the next bit going. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, without notice, on 3 May 1 977: 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade advise what progress is being made and what is the attitude of the Government in respect of the export of livestock, in view of the statement reported to have been made by a  Mr J.  O' Toole that a 5-month ban would be imposed on exports to certain countries which he nominated? Does the Government agree with that proposed action? If not, what course of action does it propose to follow? 
I regret that having taken 12 months to put my story together I will have to deliver it in 10 minutes. I am rather disappointed. I should like to raise a couple of points with respect to this legislation. No witness which the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce interviewed said at any stage that the Government should keep out of the area of control of the meat industry. No one said that controls were not necessary. I am not upset by the degree of authority that has been vested in the Minister in this legislation in the areas specified. I should like to draw attention to a table that was produced in the House of Representatives  Hansard.  I seek leave to have this table incorporated in  Hansard. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. The Victorian Government, according to today's Press, was yesterday urged to sell land and to use the money for housing purposes. Such a suggestion prompts me to ask: Would the Government consider having an investigation instituted to test the question in depth and in particular to establish the level to which extensive public sector purchase of land has contributed to the degree of increase in the price of residential land and to test the economics of the whole theory of vast advance purchases of land? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources the following question, without notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources ascertain what testing of the areas of Queensland phosphate rock has been carried out since September 1976 as to both the extent ofthe deposits and the phosphate content thereof? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics on the viability of the rural economy on King Island reached the Federal and Tasmanian governments some weeks ago. Can the Minister advise whether there has been discussion between the State and Federal ministers concerning joint action for stabilising the island situation? When will a formal joint statement be made so that the people involved may commence the necessary action as soon as possible? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  Will you consider the wording required for the presentation of petitions to the Senate in the light of present circumstances to see whether some alterations and simplifications may be appropriate, without removing the underlying expression of appeal 'And I, your petitioner, as in duty bound, will ever pray'? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Regrettably, odd cases are still coming forward indicating that a small minority of the medical profession has abused the position of trust doctors occupy by making false Medibank claims. As their own association does not appear to be taking disciplinary action against them, has or would the Government consider deregistration as the appropriate penalty rather than a fine which is of little consequence to such people? 

 -Can Senator Cotton advise whether the Callaghan inquiry is complete? If so, when will the report be put down? 
I ask a question of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Local government throughout Australia appreciates the very real assistance provided by this Government, and in an effort to provide even better service to ratepayers is seeking a variation to the timing and procedure of announcement of funds being distributed to local government. The problem lies in the lateness of the notice. This year it was given in late July, by which time councils were required to have completed their 1977-78 budgets. As a result this can produce the real possibility of rates being increased unnecessarily. The question therefore is: Will the Government investigate and, if found possible, advise amounts on a best estimate possible basis in June of each year subject to any adjustment, more or less, being made in the following financial period? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. An announcement was made in the Press on 18 August that 37 000 shop assistants in New South Wales would be eligible for pay rises following a determination of the New South Wales Industrial Commission. Under the determination rises for 15-year-old casuals will be from a present rate of $ 1.74 an hour to $3.48 an hour. Can the Minister advise whether the Government has considered the decision and the likely effects of such a rise on the continued employment prospects of these people and the thousands of others who regularly look to casual employment, particularly students who used to rely on jobs over the summer vacation months? 
-Following on the question asked bv  Senator Devitt,  I now ask the Minister for Science whether, if a further Qantas flight to the Antarctic is organised, he will give consideration to affording members of Federal Parliament the opportunity to make that trip? 
This would enable them to inspect the area from the air and become more familiar with Australia 's Antarctic involvement. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Last week 's Press recorded the impending closure of the renowned fashion apparel business of Norma Tullo. The announcement listed several factors which included Australian industry's inability to provide the quality fabrics she needs, strikes and other problems that prevented her from receiving the fabrics she ordered, and an inability to make quality fabric garments out of inferior fabrics. Is it the intention of the Government in its latest instructions to the Industries Assistance Commission to provide a climate in which people like the great Norma Tullo can continue to produce world class apparel with Australian fabrics of a quality as was previously possible? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations able to advise the present position relating to any moves to solve the demarcation dispute concerning which union members may tie up ANL ships and which has now tied up all Australian National Line shipping terminals in Tasmania? Is the Minister aware of the current repercussions, which are disastrous to Tasmania's interstate and overseas trade? One company, Australian Pulp and Paper Mills, has today announced the probability of standing down 3,000 employees and meat exporters are concerned that Japanese contracts may be cancelled through non-delivery. What is the Tasmanian Government doing and what action does this Government propose to prevent futher damage to Tasmania's industries? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I have received an answer from the Minister to a question that I asked on 17 March last on painkilling tablets, indicating that the National Health and Medical Research Council had recently made recommendations which it was hoped would be incorporated in State and Territory legislation. Can the Minister advise whether this recommendation has gone forward to the States and Territories? If so, with what result? If not, when is it expected to go forward? 
I ask a question of you,  Mr President.  Will you cause to have an investigation carried out to assess the possibilities of using the existing office  speaker  system to provide honourable senators with the Australian Broadcasting Commission news at 12.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. daily while Parliament is in session and at which times the Senate is not sitting? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Do the lands agreements with Aborigines in the Northern Territory require that the Aborigines are responsible to see that all livestock under their control are subjected to testing for diseases as required, particularly bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis? Is the Minister satisfied that all livestock are being tested? If he is not satisfied, what steps are proposed to ensure that there will be no hold up in completing the eradication program for the diseases mentioned? 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce yet concluded the details relating to the announced rearrangement of the distribution of import quotas on textiles and apparel and in particular the rules on transferability of quotas and the distribution of the 1 5 per cent set aside to assist in easing anomalies? If not, when is it hoped to do so? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The interference caused to television reception in many places through citizen band radio has now become so prevalent that some television stations have begun broadcasting instructions to viewers on how to combat the problem. Does the Minister agree that is should be the responsibility of the citizen band radio users? Will the Minister take up the matter with his colleague with a view to having the problem rectified by those responsible for causing it? 
I ask the Minister for Science to advise the Senate of the success or otherwise of the arrangements for a mail drop onto Macquarie Island in the sub-Antarctic. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. On 18 August I asked a question concerning the tabling of the Callaghan report and was informed that it has been sent to the Tasmanian Premier for information and comment. Has that comment been received? When does the Minister expect to present the report? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. In the publication  Foodweek  of 23 August 1977 the chief executive of Edgells, a Petersville company, was reported as saying: 
Well be supplying our Australian needs mainly from our new Petersville International Plant at Blenheim. 
He went on to say: 
Our new plant will be ready in November- it has to be. We've already planted the crops, mainly peas, corn and mixed vegetables for Australia. 
In view of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement arrangements for orderly trade, can the Minister advise whether he has taken steps to prevent the Australian industry being undermined by these highly padded imports? Can the Australian vegetable industry be assured of such necessary government action as would give reasonable long term security against these practices? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I have previously inquired into the question of the likely fulfilment of the quota for the supply of Australian beef to the United States of America. As we are now drawing to the close of the selling year, can the Minister supply or obtain the latest possible figures of his expectations of the final likely quantity to be shipped? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade a question. Can the Minister advise whether the arrangements under the New Zealand-Austalia Free Trade Agreement, which covers the incorporation of New Zealand imports into global quotas and the 50 per cent local content rule, could and would be implemented to cover both New Zealand grown vegetables and vegetables grown overseas and processed or part-processed in New Zealand where such exports to Australia threaten either the present NAFTA arrangements, where applicable, or other vegetables not covered under the present arrangements? 
Will the Minister for Industry and Commerce advise the Senate whether the Government has an attitude to the suggestion of employment subsidies being used as a substitute for curbs on imports? If so, what is that attitude and what effect will it have on the future of the Australian manufacturing industries? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on IS March: 
1 ) What amounts, by States, in each financial year since 1970-71 have been made available for fishing industry research grants. 
) What are the details of the grants relative to Tasmania. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. The  Courier-Mail  of 1 October carried a statement quoting the Secretary of the Cattlemen's Union,  Mr Barry  Cassell, as saying that he had received threats concerning his current position from big beef industry interests with international links. As I expect that the Minister would view such reports very seriously, as I do, will the Minister undertake to set up an investigation into the allegation to report back to the Senate on: Firstly, who made the phone calls to  Mr Cassell;  secondly, which beef industry interests such caller represented; thirdly, with which country were the international links; and, fourthly, what action the Minister can take against the person or organisation making such threats? Should any of the information requested not be available, can the Attorney-General have  Mr Cassell  advise the basis of his assertions? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
1 ) How many persons comprise each of the three Services at (a) 1 July 1975; (b) 1 July 1976; and (c) 1 July 1977. 
How many (a) officers; and (b) persons of other ranks resigned from the Services during each of these periods. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The first edition of the  National Farmer  newspaper reported that Australia's brucellosis eradication campaign may be brought to a halt by meatworkers banning the handling of reactor cattle because of disease considerations. In view of the essential and vital progress of the campaign, will the Minister consider including another alternative to the program by allowing compensation to be paid to owners of infected cattle who have the cattle destroyed on their own properties, if there is any possibility of a problem that may retard the already lagging campaign? 
-I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of an increase of 1 8H per cent in the door-to-door price of Tasmanian timber delivered to Victoria resulting from increases in Australian National Line freights, can the Minister inform me whether the freight subsidy rates for timber are under review and whether an adjustment is being considered? If so, when can an announcement be expected? 
I rise to speak for the motion. To me this Budget will continue to constrain inflation, restore another further measure of stability to business and family groups, and provide an incentive to the production areas to benefit from some inducements. At the same time it will continue to distribute large amounts of money to areas of great need and offer fresh incentives, particularly in the housing area. My main interests are in the areas of industry- primary, secondary and tertiaryand in particular items in the rural, manufacturing and housing sections and the related areas. In the rural area the beef cattle section has had much publicity of late and in my opinion rightly so. The beef cattle industry now deserves much discussion, thought and help in a variety of ways. First and foremost, when considering the beef industry we cannot overlook the fact that in 1964 there were 14 million cattle in Australia. By 1969 there were 20 million and by 1976 there were 33 million. We have to consider what effect this has had on the industry as it remains and as it stands right now. Whatever discussions are held, this aspect should and must not be overlooked. When we start to consider this matter, we must look as such aspects as the places where this growth has occurred and why it has occurred at all, particularly in these areas. We must look at whether it is a growth of the industry itself or whether it is a transfer from other industries. In particular, we must acertain where the market is, if in fact there ever was a market. 
What concerns me greatly is that I have found out, on current reading, that there are still various representatives of the industry who are talking at the moment about a further expansion to a level of 40 million. Can we cope with such an expansion, particularly bearing in mind that we must  accept the Fact  that we have a commodity which is in substantial supply and that we are selling it on a buyers' market? If we are to achieve a market for our meat, it has to be on the basis that it provides exactly what our customers want. We must take much more trouble to present whatever it is that our customers seek. Australia has seasonal and climatic problems. I think we all admit that there is no such industry as the cattle industry but rather there is a collection of industries spread throughout Australia. They are all different but they are dealing in a somewhat similar commodity. These variations make marketing very difficult and assistance to the industry nearly impossible, especially to be fair all round. 
The growth of our export industry has been remarkably good. Whilst the Australian Meat Board, the Government and the industry have received a great deal of abuse in the last few years about cattle prices and surplus cattle, the fact must not be overlooked that, in 1974-75, 517,000 tons of meat was exported. In 1975-76, there was an increase of 37 per cent in exports to 708,000 tons. By 1976-77, there was an increase ' of a further 20 per cent to 857,000 tons. In other words, there was an increase of 50 per cent over two years. That is a remarkable increase. 
Unfortunately, we are finding that our continued success will be dependent more and more on disasters in other places. Our markets must aim at places where there may be droughts, famines, floods or failures of one sort or another. For our industry to keep abreast of the marketing situation, we will have to depend on exporting large quantities of meat to various places on a casual basis. While we are doing that, we must . remember that Australia itself is subject to a range of problems. Right now we seem to be going into the teeth of a fairly big drought. The effect of this drought is difficult to assess. It is only early in the season yet but it has affected the big cattle producing areas. Many people are starting to try to assess the numbers of cattle that, they believe, are excess to our requirements. In one State alone, it is being mentioned that there is probably a surplus of four million cattle. If the drought does not break and is as severe as appears possible, I think we may lose most of those four million surplus in that State. 
As I said, in Australia at the moment we have about 32 million to 33 million cattle, and we are experiencing these sorts of problems. When we compare the Australian cattle population with the cattle population of other countries, we find that it is not very great. The United States of America currently has a cattle population of about 123 million and that number is falling. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has a cattle population of about 1 10 million and that number also is falling; Brazil has about 96 million and that number is rising; and India has about 75 million and that is fairly stable. Although Australia has a cattle population of 32 million to 33 million, it is the biggest exporter of beef on the world market. Australia is a nation trading in manufactured goods and in the products of its primary industries. 
The position of our beef market is extremely important. We have to be careful. We must plan carefully. We have to investigate fully all the assessments that are made from all the different sources. Assessments come from many sources. In this regard, I think we would have to admit that our assessment of the industry in the last few years has not been good. I think that the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation will be a better equipped body to check out those assessments. For instance, when subsidies are being propounded for assistance to the industry, including for the spaying of heifers, Baden Cameron, the Executive Director of the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, who has just come back from a trip to Europe, North America and Asia, states: 
There is little doubt in the minds of market experts that the decline phase of the beef cycle is well and truly established, and several are ready to predict a beef boom within the next two or three years. 
He follows this by stating: 
Australia had nothing to gain from cutting its own herd numbers or by spaying females, as it constituted such a small proportion of the universal cattle numbers. Our chief task must be to break with the world cattle cycle, to grow when it shrinks and shrink when it grows. 
From what he has observed, he is of the opinion that, to match the downturn that will be experienced in some of the other areas, we would be better to try to retain our breeding stocks at this stage. The industry must be able to depend on the advice it receives from top authorities. It must be able to depend on the information that comes from the Meat and Live-stock Corporation, the Department of Primary Industry and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
A need will still exist for a large number of adjustments to be made in the industry. I think we all feel great sorrow for people who are unsuccessful in any ventures they undertake, whether in primary or secondary industries. I believe that, to have the opportunity to engage in one 's own enterprise, is one of the great aims that are left to us. This does not always mean that we are automatically successful. The  Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics  in January made a couple of points that I believe are well worth noting. At page 49, it stated: 
Importantly, many producers who are currently under severe financial pressures are the same producers who were on low income farms during the boom conditions of 1973-74. For example, during 1973-74, some 52.9 per cent of beef specialist producers had net cash incomes of less than $5,000, including 15.9 per cent who had negative cash incomes. 
At page 58 of the same edition, this theme was followed through: 
Beef producers can be sub-divided into two groups: 
the majority of producers who will survive the current depressed prices, and 
b) the substantial core of producers who cannot survive, and, therefore, may adjust from the industry. 
That is important, and I think it is one of the items that is being overlooked at the moment. A great number of people who are in financial trouble now have in fact been in financial trouble for probably five years. The vast majority of people in financial trouble are people who have come into the industry within the last 10 years and many within the last five years. A great number of them were able to adjust into the beef industry from something else but they have got into financial difficulties through lack of business ability, lack of knowledge of the industry, buying poor stock or over-priced stock, and buying properties with the wrong improvements or insufficient improvements. In almost every case they have had a faulty debt structure which was taken up at a time when they believed the beef industry was very profitable. That has brought them a fresh range of troubles now and all the things that they did wrong at that time have finally caught up with them. 
In many areas 1977 has been a far better year than the previous two or three years, but that has not stopped these people running out of money and it has not stopped their creditors from moving in to try to collect money that has been owing for three or four years. Although we are receiving a lot of complaints from all sectors about the financial plight of the beef producer, in the main that plight is not one of 1977. The article to which I have just alluded mentioned that the first group were survivors and the second group were not. A lot of people- we have seen them in most rural areas of Australia- have a remarkable capacity to survive, and great numbers of them will continue. A lot of Australia has never had the boom farming conditions that have applied in other areas. Parts of Australia have never had highly prosperous farm industries, and the people in these areas have always been able to continue, whatever happened. Most of them will continue now, but the new developing areas and the in-between areas are the ones which will have the most difficulty. 
The construction of a scheme that is going to be of real assistance to the beef industry is a most difficult operation. The country now is different and the conditions are different. Farmers in some places can stand on their back verandahs and whistle their cows and they will all come but in another place if a farmer whistles he would not reach the first beast. Any scheme of assistance has first of all got to be equitable to all farmers. It has to benefit the maximum number of people. It has to be of assistance to both breeders and fat.teners wherever they are. It has to do what it can to enhance the demand for beef, as well as being administratively practical. It must be able to get money out quickly and not prejudice market recovery from that point on. That is the basis on which the Government has currently taken on the beef relief programs. I think some of them are going to be quite difficult, but months of work have gone into the consideration of a tremendous range of alternative schemes and if we can get people of goodwill to continue to look at these and work on them I am sure considerable benefits will flow to the industry we are trying to help. 
All of the schemes that have been put forward have been thoroughly investigated. Most of them have been lodged with the best of intentions but very few have been feasible or practical for a variety of reasons, one in particular being that conditions which apply in one area do not apply in others. I believe that has been the biggest difficulty in trying to get any assistance to the beef growers. However, we are sure that changes are going to be necessary and the Government will have to play its part. The Meat and Livestock Corporation will have to play its part, the public its part and the growers their part. The Government will have to develop a climate for satisfactory recovery of the industry. It will have to control inflation and contain the cost mechanisms. It will have to go into a legislative program to provide some assistance where it is absolutely necessary. The Meat and Live-stock Corporation is the body that really has a big job. Its main operation is going to be to sell. It has to find markets and work those markets very carefully. It will have to co-ordinate all the people involved in the industry and take on board the views and aspirations and abilities of all the growers and processors throughout Australia. It will have to e the eyes and ears of the Government and the industry. It will have to be reliable and sure enough of what it is doing so that the Government and industry will be able to depend completely on what it says. It will have to promote a product to the people and promote the producer to the people. 
The public will also have to play its part and give support to the industry and an understanding of its plight. We have to learn to live with the industrial issues involved. The industrial people have to remember that the beef people exist, and vice versa. A couple of weeks ago I heard a certain gentleman make a statement that we walk the same road. I accept that we walk the same road, but I am not sure who built the road and who is going to maintain it. Do we walk the same road with one person dragging a cow by a halter and another person coming along behind with a shotgun? I hope that is not the case. The producer will have to play his part and increase his efficiency. He will have to work to the standards that are required by the customers. He will have to study to ensure that as a cattle producer he is producing exactly what the world markets require. 
In the  Stock and Land  of 8 September Baden Cameron mentioned that in Australia the producer gets about one-third of the retail price of the meat; in the United States the figure is about two-thirds; in Canada it is about three-quarters. I think the producers in Australia would be very happy with two-thirds and they would be delighted with three-quarters. It is necessary that we consider why this happens and how we can go about ensuring that the producer gets a share of the total price commensurate with the investment he makes and the effort that he puts into production. One of the things we have to consider is that in 1973 boners in a meat works earned $102 a week. In 1977 they earn $302, an increase of 196 per cent. In 1973 the average wage was $101.50 and the figure in 1977 is $198.70, an increase of 95 per cent. The rates for boners have more than doubled in that period when compared with the average weekly wage. It is also reported that in central Queensland the costs of industrial disputes alone averaged between $20 and $30 a head of all cattle slaughtered, and that $20 or $30 a head comes directly from the producer's cost. 
That came from the secretary of the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council. 
Debate interrupted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Reports of a Canberra court case which revealed that an Australian Capital Territory poultry farmer with a quota for 85,584 hens in fact, on inspection, had 118,421 hens or 38 per cent above his quota, must clearly indicate the advantages of having industry levies in respect of hens and not, as in many States, on eggs where authenticity is virtually impossible to establish. Will the Minister draw the attention of the Minister he represents to the case to take the matter up with the Australian Agricultural Council to have those States not on the hen levy system changed to it forthwith to retain the advantages of industry regulation so far achieved? 
When I concluded on Tuesday evening I was discussing the costs that go with the sale of meat and the wage rates paid to boners in particular, which have increased by 195 per cent over a period when average weekly earnings have increased by 95 per cent. I was also preparing to examine other areas of cost. 
The main reasons for the increasing costs are to be found outside the industry and are now being influenced by such things as the fact that in many meatworks, I understand, slaughtermen are able to complete their daily tally by about 1 1 o'clock in the morning, at which point they become eligible for overtime. 
We have also the export quota for the sale of livestock adding to the cost of the industry generally, and reducing returns accordingly. I frankly do not accept the idea that Australia's export policy is to be determined on the wharves of Woolloomooloo. The Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union is talking about preserving the share of its members, but I think it reasonable to repeat that their share is already very good and, as I have said, increased from 5 17,000 tonnes of export meat in 1974-75 to 857,000 in 1976-77, a 50 per cent increase in two years. I would like to see a lot of effort given to further increasing our livestock exports; there are many advantages to that course at this stage. It would give us a chance to change the various stock components that exist. It would assist in achieving a quick clearance of certain areas of our livestock population, where that would be desirable. It would enable us to balance our disposal generally. It would give us the opportunity to develop meat markets m certain places and it would provide additional cash flow to people who, at the moment, need it very badly. Livestock export would take the form of exporting cattle and sheep for both slaughter and breeding purposes. A few months ago I had the opportunity to attend the World Shorthorn Convention in Sydney, where visitors from overseas stated that Australian Shorthorn cattle were at least equal to the best cattle in the world. It was recently reported also that Angus cattle here were better than those in the country of origin. 
-The Murray Greys are doing very nicely as, of course, are some of the European breeds that have been recently introduced, but I would not like to proceed further on that point. 
The trade commissioner service has recently produced an excellent document on the potential for livestock sales. It goes into great detail as to the countries where such sales would be possible. It appears that the best opportunities are presented in those countries that are closest to Australia- Malaysia, Hongkong, Singapore, the Solomon Islands and Indonesia. Those countries are trying to build up herds, so there we are presented with a great opportunity. Our cattle have much less disease than is found in the cattle of most other countries. If we can build up a reputation for having a good quantity of high quality cattle there is no reason why we cannot continue to expand for years to come. 
I also favour the export of livestock because, in many cases, where cattle are going to be slaughtered the opportunity is presented to give the people a chance to acquire a taste for meat, after which we would be able to convert them to the buying of carcass meat, as we have begun to do in a big way in the Arabian countries. I think that is the best way to expand our exports. 
The financial questions concerning farming that are being debated at the moment are largely, as I have already said, a hangover from problems that have arisen over the last few years. The Bureau of Agricultural economics recently produced figures indicating that the trend towards increasing costs has lessened. I would like to give the figures for half a dozen items only. Their index shows that although the figure for total prices paid in 1974-75 was 30 per cent, in 1975-76 it had been reduced to 17.2 per cent and in 1976-77 to 11.5 per cent. Replacement parts showed, for the same years, figures of 2 1 per cent, 20 per cent and 12.5 per cent. Building materials showed a drop of 22.6 per cent to 17.3 per cent, to 13.6 per cent. Wages dropped from 37 to 13.6 per cent, and to 9.7 per cent. Insurance dropped from 51.5 to 36.6 and then to 5.6. Interest fell from 62.7 to 20.3 and then to 10.5. That shows a downward trend in the ratio of costs. Clearly, this is progress and I think we can only feel sorry for the farmers who have, justifiably, started to despair about the declining reserves and lack of cash flow that they have experienced. 
I was interested in an article which appeared in the first edition of the  National Farmer  under the heading 'Myth of the Meat Marketing Miracle'. The most important thing that was said in that rather wordy article, which said little else, was: 
Governments cannot guarantee access to overses markets; stabilisation schemes cannot guarantee profitability. The right to produce is not the right to make a profit. 
It is unfortunate, but that is the way it is. There are a great number of farmers who are trying to assist. There are many people who are working very hard to bring about a recovery. Most of them have been in the business all their lives, or for generations, and fully understand the vagaries of farming, but that does not cure the problem. I do not think it is any solution at the moment to have the screamers entering the field. They are really achieving nothing but getting the backs up of people who have traditionally supported the farmers and have tried to understand them. This is a time when understanding is absolutely vital. 
It concerns me greatly that a journalist of the standing of Ronald Anderson, who is widely read throughout Australia, was prompted to produce an article under the heading 'Memo to farmers: Sell or shut up! ', which went on to say: 
I'm sick to death of hearing farmers whinging about what a tough life they have and how hard up they are. 
I'm sick of hearing about farmers who live poor and die rich. 
And I'm sick of paying taxes so that farmers can preserve their assets for their children. 
It's about time some farmers started seeing themselves as part of the Australian community. 
I think it is deplorable that we have reached the stage when journalists who have supported the rural industry for so long are starting to take that attitude, more or less in desperation. We need the support and the understanding of the people in the cities as well as the people in country areas. It is most unfortunate that a handful of rowdies should destroy the understanding that has been built up over many years. 
Finally, in respect to the livestock question, I must raise the matter of disease eradication. I am very concerned about brucellosis and tuberculosis, but mainly brucellosis, and the remnants of it existing throughout Australia. In the national herd context, there is not a lot of brucellosis. But it exists in areas where it will really take work to clean it up. It is the absolute time bomb with which the industry is faced. I and the industry generally appreciate very greatly the extra funds that have been made available to get on with the eradication campaign. I believe that some States are exhibiting what must be called criminal contempt of the situation in neglecting something that just cannot be neglected any longer. I feel also that the producer organisations are not taking the matter seriously enough. I believe that they should be demanding of their parliamentary representatives and their governments that eradication be completed and be completed quickly. 
There is a time fuse on this bomb. The first of the major exporting countries that can operate on a basis of having clean meat is at a tremendous advantage and will totally disadvantage all other meat exporting countries. The first meat exporting country to produce clean meat will wipe Australia out of the meat exporting market. I attended a meeting in Queensland last year at which I spoke to one of the gentlemen prominent in the industry. I asked him: 'What are you doing about your brucellosis eradication?'. He said: We do not have time for brucellosis eradication. We are too busy trying to make a living'. He became very upset when I replied to him: 'If you do not do something about brucellosis eradication, you will have all the time in the world to consider if. 
We had a particular problem in the Northern Territory where, under the Aboriginal Lands Act, the Aboriginal communities have quite substantial numbers of cattle. Apparently, although the ordinance states that the cattle should be tested, there is no way that the relevant authority can see that this is done. Great concern will have to be shown for this problem of encouraging the Aborigines to participate in the program for their own good. Like the rest of the cattle producers in Australia, the cattle will be of no use to them if there is no market anyway. 
I would like to leave the rural situation and talk for a few minutes about industry in general. I will start with the Tasmanian scene. We have been very grateful in Tasmania for the Callaghan inquiry into the structure of industry and the employment situation in Tasmania and the report it has produced.  Sir Bede  Callaghan made a very thorough assessment of the Tasmanian situation. If I had to summarise what he says in a sentence, I would say it like this: If you like Tasmania, live there and enjoy it. But it is not the place to go to if you are in business. Of course, Tasmania has all the usual problems that go with business plus the local ones. It is the most decentralised State. But Tasmania has only the problems of decentralisation and none of the advantages that go with it. In Tasmania generally labour is too dear. Hydro-electric power is far too dear. In fact, power for industry is 25 per cent dearer in Tasmania than it is in decentralised areas of Victoria. Maintenance and installation of plant and equipment is very expensive. Spares are difficult to obtain and delivery is slow. Telephone costs, telex charges and everything else are tremendously expensive. Freight costs, in spite of freight equalisation, is still dear. The freight equalisation proposals, as they have been implemented, have provided the greatest single advantage that any government has ever given to Tasmania. However, they do not give Tasmania anything at all; they only reduce some of the problems that it suffered more than the other States. 
There are two or three areas of the report that at this juncture I would like to quote from, although the report itself I understand will be debated in the Senate later. Although the headlines the newspapers carried the day after the report was released quoted the Tasmanian Premier as saying there were 20 ways in which the report showed that the Federal Government should assist Tasmania, they did not go on to state the ways in which the Tasmanian Government disadvantaged Tasmanian industry. I would like to read one or two paragraphs from the report. It was submitted to the inquiry as stated on page 13 of the report: 
Perhaps the strangest facet of the Tasmanian industrial scene is the constant desire to attract industry to the State combined with virtually no practical incentives to retain manufacturing in Tasmania ... the Victorian Government oners finance, land and buildings, subsidies for the transfer of plant and personnel, for those establishing in country areas. In addition there is a 100 per cent payroll tax rebate, and also the remission of land tax. Few, if any, of these inducements are available to Tasmanian industry. 
On page 95 of the report mention is made of various minor items. For example, it is stated that 'average income in Tasmania is considerably lower than in the other States. Spending power of Tasmanians is significantly reduced'. It is stated also that during the past decade, the unemployment rate in Tasmania has been, on average, one-third higher than the all-Australian average. These are things that have always been part of the Tasmanian industrial scene. It is stated on page 1 18 of the report, with respect to the submission of the Tasmanian Government: 
The State Government claims that its existing priorities preclude further assistance of a financial nature to industry. In this respect, the State is no longer competitive with other States for the establishment of a wide range of new industries (both Australian and foreign companies). 
Other States provide considerably more financial incentives to industry such as payroll tax rebates, rail freight concessions, establishment grants and loans. 
The final quotation I wish to make from the report is contained on page 122 where it is stated: 
I have indicated elsewhere in this report the need for the Tasmanian Government to prepare programs to assist the development of small business. 
In other words, what  Sir Bede  Callaghan is saying is that certainly Tasmanian industry is disadvantaged but the biggest disadvantage it has is the Tasmanian Government which has made it adequately clear that it does not want industry in the State and is not prepared to do anything to help it. I think that the quotations I have just read should be coupled with what was said by  Mr Peter  Walker, the Federal  President  and currently State  President  of the Taxpayers' Association. In commenting on the Tasmanian Budget, he said: 
The 1977 Tasmanian Budget leaves this State with the hardest and most discriminatory probate taxes in Australia. 
Providing an inducement for getting industry or people into Tasmania naturally is not easy. The job that  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce and other Ministers are doing to try to assist Tasmania will require some consideration from the State Government as well. Tasmania has played a prominent part in the Australian textile industry for many years. The closure of Kelsall and Kemp (Tasmania) Ltd was a very bad blow to Tasmania and a great loss to the textile industry of Australia as a whole. I feel that a textile industry holds a very important place in the whole of the Australian economy. However, the textile industry, like the butter and cheese industries, requires assistance and it is both desirable and necessary that it should have assistance. 
Having had a good look at many of the textile operators in Australia I am satisfied that by production standards many of them are very competitive. They are efficient but on a cost-wage basis they have problems. It is a national problem. It is not a problem peculiar to that particular industry. Not enough people are prepared to concede that this is the point. I do not see that we should try to eliminate efficient industries, but I certainly believe that in the case of certain industries that were mentioned here yesterday they should be eliminated unless they are prepared to become efficient. Having spoken to the textile and clothing industry organisations and having kept an eye on the market place as well, I believe that the textile and clothing industries at the moment are looking to a better period of trading than they have looked to for a number of years. I believe that the changes that have been made to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement and to the trade arrangements with New Zealand have tidied that area a lot. The whole system of quotas has been rationalised. I think that by the time arrangements have been completed everybody will know exactly where they stand. We have reached a stage when retailers are now in need of stock. The way is open for an expansion in many new businesses. I think that now the quota has been adjusted, many of the rackets that have beset the industry will decline. 
I understand the retailer position. What retailers need most is stock and business to run at a profit, but I must admit that I am not convinced that the extraordinarily large import business has, in fact, benefited the customer to the degree that it should have done. In spite of the prophets of doom and gloom we can see that business has improved. The business section in the  Age  of 6 October under the heading 'Boom profit year belies slump' made a couple of important points that even the protagonists cannot ignore. It said that a survey of stock exchange listed companies reporting for the year to 30 June revealed that profits jumped 28.3 per cent from $800m to $ 1,028m and that sales, with a few exceptions, were also buoyant, rising by 18.8 per cent from $2 1,644m to $25,954m. This is very healthy and it shows that we are starting to make some progress again. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: As a preliminary inquiry by Royal Australian Air Force experts has revealed that a bird may have caused the recent crash of an FI 1 1 aircraft in northern New South Wales, can he advise whether any progress has been made towards developing a more suitable, and tougher, windscreen or other protection for these and other aircraft under the Minister's control? 
-In rising to speak on the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1977 I wish to make a few comments on the 1 973-74 Housing Agreement which is in its final year, the amendments that are yet to come forward and the changes that are likely to be made to the scheme. The scheme goes right back to 1 946, in one form or another. As I said, this is the last year of the 1 973-74 Agreement. From its inception the scheme has been one of good ideals, but in many cases governments seem to have got off the track. I have taken the opportunity to read the housing debates in 1 945 and 1946, and I will advert to those later. It is interesting to observe the purpose of this scheme when it was started and to ascertain whether we have changed or whether the purpose of the scheme has changed. . 
This Bill provides $390m as advances for welfare housing. It authorises payments to the States amounting to $195m in the first six months of 1978-79. The Bill also gives the Treasurer approval to borrow the funds. Under the legislation the money will be distributed by the States either through the State housing authorities or through the Home Builders Account by the terminating building societies. Under the terms of the Agreement the advances are repayable over 53 years, with interest at 4 per cent on money distributed through the State housing authorities and at41/2 per cent on money distributed through the terminating building societies. Loan eligibility is one area that, to me, is quite questionable. At present an applicant must receive less than 85 per cent of average weekly earnings to qualify for a loan from a State housing authority and less than 95 per cent of average weekly earnings to qualify under the Home Builders Account. Under the Agreement only 30 per cent of the money made available to the States is to be applied to the construction of houses for sale; the rest is to be applied to the construction of rental housing. 
The current Housing Agreement came  into  force on 1 July 1973 and concludes on 30 June 1978 when there will be a new agreement which may well be before the Senate, as I understand it, this session or very early next session. Under this Bill the advance of $390m will be distributed as follows: New South Wales will receive $128m; Victoria, $101m; Queensland, $39m; South Australia, $58m; Western Australia, $36m; and Tasmania, $25m. In 1973-74 there was an allocation of $218,650,000; in 1974-75, $385,400,000; in 1975-76, $364,600,000; in 1976- 77, $375m; and, as I said, the allocation for 1977- 78 is $390m. 
The amendments to the Act that have been foreshadowed have not come to hand, but we believe that they should be available very shortly. The main purpose of the amendments has already been discussed with and agreed to by the various States. The amendments will enable Tasmania and Victoria in particular to relax the limit on housing constructed for sale by State housing authorities. They will allow the New South Wales and Tasmanian housing authorities to sell houses for cash and to put that money back into housing construction as quickly as possible. They will allow each State to fix its own limits in respect of the amounts to be charged for management fees by terminating building societies and the amounts that can be deducted as approved charges for the handling of loans from the Home Builders Account. 
The new Agreement will come into operation a s from 1 July 1978, but by that time the Commonwealth Government will have provided under the present Agreement $ 1,734m, including the $390m allocated under this Bill. By that time more than 300,000 houses will have been constructed since 1945 and a total amount of approximately $4 billion will have been expended. When I was reading the 1 945 debates I found that on 1 3 September 1 945 the then Minister,  Mr J.  J. Dedman, outlined in his second reading speech the basic fundamentals of the scheme which I believe are still virtually the same today. I will quote a couple of things that he said: 
. this Bill provides a plan for housing and rehousing families of the lower income group . . . 
I do not think that is questioned. He also said:   . . covers only rental housing of a good reasonable standard, for those who are in need of proper housing accommodation, and who, for various reasons, do not desire or are unable to purchase their own homes. The Agreement would not preclude subsequent sale to a tenant at the discretion ofthe housing authority. 
In addition, each State has passed legislation for the encouragement  of home  ownership by means of rental purchase terms with small deposits- in some cases no deposit at all . . . 
He also said:   . . to let these dwellings, whatever their economic rent may be. . . By economic rent I mean the costs which ordinarily enter into rent, such as interest, repayment of capital, maintenance, rates and taxes, and administration. The difference between one-fifth of the family income and the economic rent would be rebated. As the income rises or falls, however, the rebate will diminish or increase. 
He also said: 
Naturally, a family which requires a rental rebate will have to disclose its income, but this is quite reasonable, considering the large sums of money involved. 
I also indulge myself by repeating the comment that put him into immortality. He said: 
The Commonwealth Government is concerned to provide adequate and good housing for the workers: it is not concerned with making the workers into little capitalists. 
That appeared on page 6265 of  Hansard  of 2 October 1 945. Those basic points are still valid today. We have got away from several of them. The main requirements are to see that we get back to what was originally intended, bearing in mind the changes that have occurred in the general sociological structure of the country in the period since. The sort of sociological changes I refer to include the very high incidence of two income families, smaller family units, the greater mobility of people generally, the fact that the aged are cared for far less at home than they were in 1945 and thereafter, and the fact that a lot of units accommodate young people who would never previously have been away from home. 
In providing funding for housing, housing departments, housing commissions and the terminating building societies have taken what I suppose is a logical step. They have dealt firstly with the people who are easiest. This does not include people in the greatest need. The Housing Department in Tasmania provided strict rules that it would not, under any circumstances, take on anybody who had been in trouble with previous landlords for non-payment of rent, people who had been in trouble with the law or people who had had a matrimonial break-up. If it is not up to the State housing authorities to look after these groups I fail to see what their best function should be. People who are in need of help should be helped by the community. We hear tirades every now and then about the evils of the landlord. The private landlord has done a tremendous amount to provide a lot of housing, in some cases at high rents, but in most cases at normal, economic market rents. I believe the system got out of hand when living in a Housing Commission house became a bonus and not a benefit. The new Act I trust will work towards eliminating bonuses and looking after the poor. 
The Henderson report on poverty showed clearly how few of the people in government provided, government funded houses needed that benefit. It also showed how many people in genuine need of assistance from the State were renting in the private sector. The only reasonable way to put housing on to an equitable plane is to convert both rentals and purchases to a basis of market equity. The rental of all housing provided by the Government should be based on market rental. The rebating of rent for people who are unable to pay market rental could be done through the housing assistance voucher experiment or by any other form of rebate that the State governments in their wisdom may choose to allow. The worst thing politicians or businessmen can do to people is increase a charge. It does not matter whether that charge is for rent, milk or anything else. To overcome this factor, if all rents were charged at the economic rental prevailing and discounted so that in the fullness of time the discounting was varied, this would make the tenant concerned much more cognisant of the actual rental position. 
A lot of people are receiving benefits to which they have no entitlement and for which they have no need. They are doing this at the expense of those in real need. I noticed in an article earlier in the year that a family with an income of $500 a week was paying $25 a week rent. None of us could possibly countenance that the Federal Government or State governments should continue this unfair subsidy. It is easy for people to call for more money. More money on its own has never been the cure for anything. The wise expenditure of such funds as are available is what everybody should be calling for. If we can use this allocation of $390m or the money available after the next allocation to better advantage I believe it will be ample to fit in with the economic ability of the industry to provide houses and the necessity of the people to obtain them. We are still knocking down houses all over the place. It has to be considered very carefully as to whether this is desirable or whether the knocking down program should be eased up for a while. Again, the Federal Government and State governments are the worst offenders. 
If we can change this scheme to make it possible for more people on the lower income levels to be looked after we will find that those who are waiting for a bonus now will start to look after themselves to a far higher degree. We need to bear in mind the desirability of taking people ofT the housing list people who do not need to be on it. It is normal for people in the real estate, building and banking fields to say to anybody who is a little short of money that they should put their names down with the Housing Commission or appropriate body. There are thousands of people on the list who do not want or need a Housing Commission house. In many cases they have had a house for years. They are probably not eligible for a Housing Commission home anyway but they have not bothered to take their names off the list. Of course, it is the same with the unemployment figures. The system of rebating has to take account of the size of the family and the total income of the family. The present agreement specifically excludes sufficient allowance for both these factors. 
If we can get the market rental concept into full operation and incorporate it with a rebate system, whether through the housing assistance voucher or not, there will be immediately and automatically a considerable increase in housing. This will create a greater direction of funding to those in greatest need. It will put less pressure on the public sector by the bargain hunters. It will lessen encouragement to be a tenant and consequently increase home buying. As a result, it will automatically provide a greater involvement by the private sector in housing funding and it will provide a quicker turnover of the public sector funds to give a greater utilisation of them. There can be absolutely no justification for the subsidising of the multiple income families or the higher income families as we now have it. I also hope that all restrictions on the sale of housing authority houses will be removed as quickly as possible. Everybody should be encouraged to relieve the pressure on the State authorities and to make it possible for the money of the State authorities to be utilised on providing assistance for those who really need it and need it most. 
I hope that we will see a far greater utilisation of the co-operative building societies and the Home Builders Account. The administration and the cost structure of the co-operative building societies are magnificent. They have done a remarkably fine job. I believe that a far greater portion of the assisted housing funds should go through such organisations, again with recognition of the income of the participants and the fact that bonus interest is allowable to them only for such time as their incomes require it. The cooperatives have provided a magnificent service and their expense ratio leaves absolutely nothing to be desired. 
I have found housing always to be a good line for the newspapers. I have before me a book of cuttings from the newspapers which I read quite regularly. Most of them are highly emotive, barely accurate and, regrettably, designed for the politics of housing. I certainly do not wish to indulge in exchanges with either Federal or State participants in the arena, but is is a complete inaccuracy and a gross distortion to say, as one State Housing Minister said, that the building industry will be set back even further this financial year and, according to a newspaper article headed 'Housing to reel again', to say: 
The queues for State housing loans and for rented housing Department loans will grow because of cut backs in Federal spending on State housing. 
The same Minister came out a week or two later and said that Tasmania had had a great victory in the discussions with the Federal Minister and, whereas a couple of months earlier he had been saying that under no circumstances would Tasmania work on the economic rent basis, was quoted as saying: 
The continuation of low interest money will mean that rates will be kept within a person's capacity to pay and I am looking for more generous schemes on rental rebates so the tenants will need to pay only what they can afford. 
Paying what they can afford is exactly what the scheme is all about. To say that they should pay only what they can afford is somewhat of a distortion because the question of whether it is only', 'as much as' or 'what is the economic rental ' is a matter for determination. 
I think that the old Agreement has clearly moved away from the original aims. I think it now fails to take into account the needs of the period from 1978 onwards. I believe that the States have to start to re-think completely what is going to be the pattern of housing in the next few years. For instance, I believe that the biggest single change in the housing field will occur with the emphasis that will be placed on accommodation for the aged which, I believe quite inappropriately, goes through the Department of Social Security. It could well be transferred back to the department which has responsibility for housing. I believe that the involvement of the States in the planning in this respect will need to be far better. The utilisation of the funds will be what housing is about from here on in. 
-When I was speaking in this debate last Thursday I was about to say a few words in relation to housing and the implications of the funding for housing in the Budget. The Government has made a variety of moves in an effort to consolidate the various housing programs and the programs that ultimately will make up a substantial housing package. As we all know, there has been a great expansion and alteration of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation legislation and the home savings grants scheme; the housing allowance voucher scheme, which is an experiment, is virtually under way; a new Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement is coming up; and so on. We are making real progress towards achieving a fully integrated housing policy. 
I welcome the voucher experiment that has been undertaken, even in the raw state in which it is at present. I believe it to be a quite useful framework which we can convert into something that can be much more useful than the current proposal. It could be adapted to cover a much wider range and to serve a much more useful purpose. The experiment will show the range that it can cover and how it can be used in various ways. The Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, which was debated recently in this chamber, had reached the stage where it was too far off the track and had been so for too long. When the new Bill comes forward I trust that it will provide the frame-work within which welfare housing can be dealt with in a much more practical way. 
In the area of decentralisation, what has been proposed and the methods of using the funds are, to me, far better than previously. The funding will certainly provide no fancy frills, but it will provide help in places which can show that help is justified and that the money will assist in a particular area of development. When we consider decentralisation funding, I think it is time that we looked back to see how much money we have spent in the last three or four years, what we have done with it, how we can justify it in terms of the results achieved and, alternatively, what else we could have done with it and what we could have achieved. I believe that the Commonwealth will continue to fund decentralisation. I hope that it does. I believe that the funds can be used for very good purposes and can produce results if they are spent correctly. 
I should like to say a little about land development. The Budget provides funding for the land commissions in the amount of $ 14.1m, which will continue to be spent in the various States. It is all part of the program of housing development. I have reached the stage where I have the greatest reservations about either the Commonwealth or the States being involved in the provision of land and the development of land. It is not only what has happened in Victoria that has caused me to have doubts about the effectiveness and efficiency of the State authorities. If we were to analyse at this stage the amount of land that is held by State authorities years and years in advance of requirements and if we were to realise what a small proportion of the cost of a developed block the cost of the land actually is, I believe that it would not be difficult to come to the conclusion that the money spent in this direction would have been far more productive if it had been put into housing. 
The big need at the moment is houses. I cannot justify in my own mind tying up land for 10 to 20 years in advance, thus depriving the people of today of housing, ostensibly to provide cheaper housing for the people of tomorrow. Various vagaries arise from such planning: Firstly, I am not satisfied that these blocks of land are coming on to the market more cheaply, in the main. Some of them are, but in the main they are not. Secondly, there is no doubt that they distort the development of the cities and towns in which the land is held. Thirdly, they make the servicing and development of the land that is not developed by the authorities far more expensive. Fourthly, they can influence the whole demographic process of town development. If the States and the Commonwealth departments believe that we have the right and the capacity to indulge ourselves to this level, I for one certainly do not. 
In this regard we cannot overlook the situation in Canberra. 1 understand that at present- I believe that this came out in the debate on the Estimates- about 7,000 or 8,000 blocks of land are available for home building in Canberra and that approval has been given for a like number to be developed this year. So, by the end of this financial year there may well be about 15,000 developed blocks available in Canberra. I think this sort of operation needs much closer scrutiny. I believe that a far greater input from practical people would help to rationalise work of this nature, to ensure that it develops with an even flow. It is all very well to continue to develop as a means of keeping things rolling, but there is a limit to how much we can keep things rolling. By the same token, if we achieve a mammoth surplus the adverse results will be much greater. 
I believe that generally the public sector would be better advised to buy developed land- land ready to build on- at the time it needs it, or perhaps one or two years in advance. It is perfectly reasonable for the private sector to provide a whole subdivision of developed blocks at an agreed price and on an economic basis. I am still satisfied that the public sector does not possess the ability or the know-how to develop land to the same extent. I will conclude by saying that I believe we can expect many changes in the housing pattern over the next year or two and over the next decade in particular. I support the motion. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Estimates in the Budget provide an amount of $750,000 for development of accommodation for cattle and horses at the Torrens Island quarantine station. Can the Minister advise the amounts of money and accommodation to be provided for cattle and horses respectively, when tenders for the work will be called, and the anticipated time of construction? Does the Minister propose that the station be used for providing entry for cattle and horses originating in other selected countries but currently held in New Zealand? Will it be opened up to allow stock to enter directly from other approved countries with favourable disease status? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
1 ) How much Australian beef has been exported to the United States of America from the beginning of the 1976-77 selling year to date. 
What is the total quantity of beef which the Minister anticipates will be shipped to the United States for the selling year 1976-77. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As the Australian National Line accounts reveal that the line would have made a profit of $ 14.4m for the year ended 30 June 1977 had it not been affected by what were termed 'extraordinary items', which we may assume to be nonrecurring, can the Minister use his best endeavours to ensure that those areas of Australia with no alternative surface freight systems be assured of either a reduction or at least no increase of freight rates over the next 12 months? Is it the Government's wish that the Australian National Line should provide the most economical service possible or that it should be a major profit earner? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Industry and Commerce.  Mr John  Uhrig, Managing Director of Simpson Pope, in an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 24 October 1977 puts a case for enlarging the export side of Australia's manufacturing industry. Can the Minister advise whether any of the Ministers he represents have under consideration any new proposals that would provide impetus to manufacturers to engage in a higher level of export trading, or would he be prepared to consider submissions on the matter from the various sections of industry that could be involved? 
I rise to speak against this quite amazing matter of urgency. I regret that we have fallen into the pattern of these Wednesday waffles, as they have become known. But this matter of urgency is even a little more unusual than most. I find that we face it with even less enthusiasm than usual. I see the question that has been raised in two pieces. The motion mentions both economic uncertainty and election manoeuvring. Let me examine the first matter of economic uncertainty. I suppose that we really need to look at what creates economic uncertainty. Undoubtedly, the thing that creates economic uncertainty most is high inflation. It just so happens that Australia has the lowest inflation rate since 1972. So it is not that. Would it be rising interest rates? I do not think that it would be that either because at present our interest rates are falling and the lowest they have been for some years. Would it be rapidly rising costs and wages? I do not think it is that either. To support that view I quote from the same document as  Senator Button  quoted from selectively. It states only 69 per cent of the firms reported higher labour costs in the September quarter compared to 76 per cent in the June quarter. Only 66 per cent of firms reported higher overhead costs in the September quarter compared with 74 per cent in the June quarter. The price index of manufactured goods rose only 0.4 per cent in August. So it is not rapidly rising wages and costs. Would it be massive tax increases? No, there have been no massive tax increases either. It was in the two years before we came to government that tax went up by 89 per cent. 
We have had a reduction in tax. We have had tax indexation and various other benefits. Would it be the abolition of industrial benefits, investment allowances and the constant hacking of the private sector? I do not think that has happened since about 1974-75 either. Is the Government wildly and irrationally throwing industry to the wolves? For instance, is it striking a 25 per cent tariff cut across the board? That is not right either. The Government has been looking at selective industries very carefully in both the primary and secondary sectors. It has treated them on their merits. Would it be speculation on the currency? The Government has not been speculating on the currency. But there has been speculation on the currency. If there is anything that will create economic uncertainty it is certainly speculation on the currency by people who choose to destroy it. Would it be crazy changes in the ministry and in policy such as was exhibited between 1972 and 1975? 
-We could not. There have not been any changes since then. The policies of this Government have been steadfastly followed right along the line from where we started. I hope and trust that we will continue to follow them. Is it weakening trade? Australia is a trading nation. Perhaps we should look at the figures for the June quarter. Exports of goods and services rose by 2 per cent. Imports of goods and services fell by 5 per cent. Preliminary figures for the September quarter increased by one per cent despite its being a difficult period. Recorded imports fell by 5.5 per cent in the same period. What is the trading position in the September quarter? After a deficit of $31m in June there were surpluses of $77m in July, $88m in August and $117m in September. The position is expected to strengthen even further as the year progresses. Is our trade letting us down? 
The whole question of economic uncertainty can an be answered by the points I have raised. If it is not economic uncertainty, we had better look at the election manoeuvring. Two years ago various options were open to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  bearing in mind that there were two main constraints. There had to be a Senate election before May 1978. There had to be a House of Representatives election at the end of 1978 or in early 1979. The referendum held in Australia showed that voters wanted simultaneous elections. They included members of the Australian Labor Party. They included  Senator Douglas  McClelland who spoke a lot about when the election will be held. They included  Senator Button.  They included  Senator Wriedt.  They included the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  It was shown that concurrence of the elections is preferred. 
The Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition have both said they believe it should be so. Taking that into account, the options are reduced. Elections have to be held by May of next year. So who has been doing the manoeuvring. It was established months ago that the options will run out by May next year. To make the elections coincide they will have to be held within the next few months. We all know that. What we are really talking about now, in spite of all the eloquence, is a matter of three or four months at the most. Who is doing the election manoeuvring? Who started it? The first person I heard speculating on when the election would be held was  Mr E.  G. Whitlam. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Earlier I raised the question that there had been much unwarranted and pointless speculation on the part of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam.  Upon reviewing the record further, I find that when he was Prime Minister he had two opportunities, one in 1974 and one in 1975, to call for elections, but that his track record on those two occasions was not terribly impressive. I really wonder why he feels that he would be any more competent to call an election when we are in government than he was when he himself was in office. 
It was the Leader of the Opposition who began fostering speculation and trying to get uneasiness going in the country. It is easy to get an audience in the media, if one can get things on the move. It is certainly not the Prime Minister who has been talking about an election, nor has it been the Government in general. It has been talked about only by those who would like to have the say in this country. God spare us from a situation in which either they or the media will ever have that say. 
Let us now try to tie the two together a little and consider where points of economic uncertainty exist- and there certainly are some. Before the dinner recess  Senator Tehan  mentioned, in fact, that there is economic uncertainty in Victoria. With more than half a million people stood down, of course there is economic uncertainty. For the 3,000 who have lost their jobs permanently there is great uncertainty. I do not think any of those people would blame the Prime Minister for that. In the building industry also there is uncertainty. It too is plagued by this handful of barbarians who are dedicated to the destruction of the Australian economy. While we have that situation continuing there will, of course, be uncertainty. Nobody in bis right mind would in such economic circumstances be prepared to suffer the vagaries of trying to construct a building. Is that the fault of the Prime Minister. 
In regard to primary industry, let us consider our overseas exports of wheat and of live sheep. Both of these industries are in a state of uncertainty at the present, but is it the Prime Minister that we have to look to lay the blame for that uncertainty? The uncertainty that exists is being engendered by those who do not wish to see Australia continue to settle down, continue to hit the prosperity curves. We must be careful not to fall into the trap of excessive spending and wild extravagance. 
On glancing back to the Budget debates of the last few weeks we find that one by one senators from the Opposition side have been speaking about spending, spending, spending- wantonly, recklessly, thoughtlessly- and guaranteeing one thing only a return to the glorious halcyon days of 1973 to 1975. The Opposition can promise only a return to those hazy, crazy days that we thought we were at last rid of. I have come to accept their growing unhappiness with the improvement in the economy, because so much of their hope for a return to government must of necessity be built around disaster, and as that danger moves further away, so too do their chances of governing. I understand this and find it regrettable, but at this stage there is no question that the motion before the Senate could be even semi-seriously considered, and accordingly I oppose it. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Executive Council of the Australian Postmasters Association has approached senators with a proposal that post offices should operate Medibank and has set out many items of the possible operation. Can the Minister advise whether the proposal has been investigated by the Minister he represents and the Minister for Health to assess the possibilities of such a change? If so, has any decision been made? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the statement by the Tasmanian Minister for Transport, as reported in the Tasmanian Press of 27 October, that the Commonwealth Government had suspended payments of between $4m and $5m a year for the next five years and that work on the upgrading of Tasmania's railway system might have to be stopped within a month, can the Minister advise whether funding has been suspended? If so, why, in view of the agreement and the Budget allocation? If not, why should the Tasmanian Minister have made the statement? Is it reasonable to seek to have that Minister not only correct the statement that he made but also to add a comparison of the commitment of the Federal Government over the last two Budgets with the amounts spent by the State Government over the previous 20 years on the Tasmanian railway system? 
I believe  Senator Georges  has become a little overliteral in regard to what has been said by the Committee, and its intentions in saying it. I think I can join the Committee in stating that there is no doubt that the departments with which we dealt made their presentations extraordinarily well; that we were well satisfied with the material that they brought forward. 
Already we have found, in checking upon the results of the comments we made, that one department has drawn up a list of cancellations of subscriptions to newspapers and the like. As with computers, libraries are becoming one of the basic necessities of life. From what I have heard during the hearing of various committees with which I have been associated, it seems that libraries are very much the growing art. Before we know where we are, once a department or ari office collects four or five newspapers a day it needs a librarian to tabulate and to file them. 
-I just believe that to perform useful work is one of the prerequisites. The same applies with the beautification of the work place. I certainly go along with beautification of the work place, but I am not prepared to admit that in many instances it is not better to have a nice movable screen with flowers painted on it rather than space being taken up with screens and pot plants which, on the admission of departmental officers, occasionally get destroyed. At the frivolous times of the year people might up-end a glass of beer on to one of the expensive palm trees or something like that. 
On the matter of computers, again it was not the question of labour which concerned members of the Committee, as I recall. It is purely and simply a technical matter. It is a matter of the use of and the need for equipment, of the justification for its installation in a place and of the extent to which computerisation is to be undertaken. It is very much a field for technocrats. When people come to make a decision as to what type of equipment is necessary, just who does know the answer? I believe that it might well be that somewhere within the organisation we should have a panel or an expert who is able either to lay down specifications or at least to look at the specifications for what the various departments have in mind. 
Since the hearing of the Estimates Committee I have taken the trouble to ask questions of computer operators in various departments and even of computer firms. I found that every department and every firm had different ideas. In hardly any of the cases are decisions made by people from within the department. It is all a matter of which salesman can put up a proposition that suits the circumstances of the time. I regret that in most cases there is no question of considering compatibility of equipment, equipment that could be transferred from one department to another or even used for a different purpose within a department. There seems to be a great shortage of sources of proper advice other than from computer firms. Naturally, the computer firms are trying to induce departments to purchase or to lease their equipment, as the case may be. There is great confusion as to exactly what is necessary. 
I found that the question of whether to lease or whether to buy comes into this quite a lot. I believe that in many cases decisions are made according to the actual amount of money' which the section of the department believes it can extract in the Estimates. They can always justify their decisions by saying: 'The price is going up so we bought it', or 'the model is likely to change in a year or two so we leased it'. I found the answers I obtained and the answers obtained in the Committee hearings concerning the decision made were quite unsatisfactory. I believe that some firm decision should be made that we should not obtain equipment that is likely to go out of date; that we should try to get equipment that is compatible, and so on. I have many friends in the computet industry and have had long talks with some of them. They are practical people. I believe that somewhere along the line we need to engage somebody to set up some criteria with which departments should have to comply before purchasing or leasing this type of equipment. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Science. The Tasmanian sugar beet industry last week conducted visits connected with the establishment of a pilot plant for determining the feasibility of a power alcohol operation. An amount of $400,000 for research, spread over three years, was reported as being considered, with the State Government to provide half that amount. Can the Minister advise whether the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or any other organisation under his control has any current project under way for the development of power alcohol and whether there has been any approach from the Tasmanian Government or the sugar beet committee for the $200,000 mentioned? Will the Minister also advise what other assistance his Department could or would currently be able to provide to the committee? 
I, too, would like to speak to the Tasmania Grant (The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited) Bill 1977. It is a pleasure to follow  Senator Devitt  in the debate. He has a very intimate and personal knowledge and understanding of, and a sympathy attitude to, the situation. I think it would be fitting also if I expressed my regret that the people of Tasmania will not have his representation after 30 June next year. It certainly will be a very substantial loss to many people who have appreciated the understanding that he has been able to give to matters concerning the northern and western area of the State. 
Certainly all Tasmania will appreciate the help that this Bill will provide. It will provide help not only for the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd, the people of Queenstown itself or the whole of Tasmania. I have had about 30 years of association with Queenstown in one way or another. It is a place that has always held a great deal of interest and fascination for me. I have got to know many of the people for whom it is home. I suppose that over those 30 years I have organised thousands of people to visit Queenstown because I believe that it has so much of interest to the visitor. I suppose that over that same time I have been instrumental in seeing that hundreds of copies of the book  'The Peaks of Lyell'  by Geoffrey Blainey have been sold and distributed. Again, it was so much a worth while exercise. 
I will endeavour not to go over the ground covered by  Senator Devitt.  This CommonwealthState agreement was completed on 15 August on a dollar for dollar basis. As  Senator Devitt  says, we are awaiting the Industries Assistance Commission report. I made inquiries at the end of last week and I am of the opinion that its presentation is imminent. I certainly hope that its recommendations will be favourable. But, whether they are good or bad, I would like to see them in the next day or so. A quick improvement in the world copper markets appears most unlikely. It is very difficult to see an improvement occurring. I understand that 80 per cent of the world copper production today is being produced on a loss basis. It is produced in countries in which governments are prepared to subsidise its production in an effort to obtain orders. 
I understand that the current world price of copper is about $1,030 a tonne, having fallen from a peak figure of $2,240 a tonne in April 1974.I also understand that for the Mount Lyell mine to be a profitable operation the company needs to receive in the order of $1,500 a tonne for the copper produced. All the time the prices have been falling the costs have been rising. We are told that the company lost $ 11.1m in 1976-77, $5.5m the year before and $8.3m the year before that, making a total loss of about $25m over the last three years. As a result, optimism would be very unrealistic, to say the least, at this time. But there can still be hope, and we are hoping. Attitudes expressed in the reports of the company at this stage are not surprising. I believe that it is taking a quite realistic view. It was stated in the  Australian Financial Review  of 14 October 1977: 
The London mining, industrial and investment group Consolidated Goldfields has written off its entire beneficial interest in the Mount Lyell copper mine as a cost of $32.8m ... 
The report goes on to say: 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In view of the numbers of refugee immigrants coming into Australia, can the Minister advise whether refugees are accepted irrespective of health and other qualifications and whether it is considered that persons not eligible for immigration under normal causes may endeavour to gain entry as refugees? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 August 1 977: 
1 ) How many students, in the years 1974, 1975 and 1976, commenced studies under (a) the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme; and (b) the Adult Secondary Education Assistance Scheme. 
How many students (irrespective of the year in which their studies commenced), in respect of assistance under these Schemes, ceased studies prior to completion of their courses in the years 1974, 1975 and 1976. 
Are students who receive benefits and fail to complete their courses liable in any way for benefits received. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 August 1 977: 
Can students who do not complete their courses be replaced by others who were unable to gain entry at the commencement of the course, once a course has commenced. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
1 ) How many tertiary students ceased their studies during or at the end of academic years 1974, 1975 and 1976, without completing their courses. 
How much per head do withdrawals add to the cost of educating those who remain in the courses, in underutilisation of staff, facilities and equipment 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
How many students had withdrawn from studies at the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education by the end of the first semester 1 977, from the original 1977 enrolment of 1st year students, 2nd year students, and 3rd year or later students. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It refers to a recent incident involving the apprehension of a Japanese fishing boat in Commonwealth waters adjacent to Tasmania. Can the Minister advise whether 10 Japanese fishing boats were in the area by arrangement with or at the request or with the knowledge of either the Federal Government or any State government? If so, was the presence subsequent to or dependent upon any continuing access to the resources of those waters? Has there been or is it proposed that there be an agreement that would require Commonwealth approvals or actions in support? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Yesterday I asked a question about the approval of a joint venture fishing proposition in southern waters. I have since been approached by another group of fishermen in which a similar joint venture has been discussed. In view of the rapid changes to the world fishing resources management, will the Government withhold any joint venture approvals for the present, firstly to allow full consideration of the capacity and ability of the Australian fishing industry and its relation to the available resources and, secondly, to allow full discussion with the fishermen involved or affected? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Government yet made a decision on the level of dairy underwriting for the forthcoming season? If it has been made, has the Minister the details? If not, is he able to say when such a decision will be made known? 
I ask my question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. The Press on 16 February reported that a lack of spare parts had forced the closure of the radar landing equipment at Amberley Air Base making it necessary for the base to rely on civilian assistance from Eagle Farm airport. In view of the fact that the Royal Australian Air Force has five squadrons at Amberley, including the two Fill squadrons, when is it expected that the troubles will be rectified, or has it been considered desirable to investigate an alternative to the present French equipment? 
I take this opportunity to speak in the AddressinReply debate and to say how much I appreciated the presence in the Parliament of  Sir Zelman  Cowen. I also take the opportunity to welcome  Senator Haines  and congratulate her on her maiden speech. I am sorry that she will not be here very long, but in occupying the interregnum position that she does between the former Liberal senator,  Senator Hall,  and her successor I regret that she is unfortunately to become another in the long run of unsuccessful political ploys of Don Dunstan, and I am sorry for that. I am pleased to have been told that a proposed joint venture fishing proposal put forward in Tasmania and recommended by the Tasmanian Government to the Federal Government for approval has not been approved and, I suggest, rightly so. The detail of the proposal is important, but it is the principle as much as the detail I wish to discuss. 
The proposal was known as Tasmanian Fisheries Co. Pty Ltd and was a joint venture on a 50-50 basis comprising on the one hand  Sir Francis  Duval or his nominee and on the other hand Japanese interests- the National Federation of Fisheries Co-operative Associations and Hachinohe Fisheries Co-operative Association. The proposal was for feasibility fishing and encompassed a fleet of 10 boats, three 350-tonne trawlers and seven 300-tonne squid boats. The feasibility period was to be three years and another seven years of additional fishing were to follow. 
I am not totally opposed to joint venture deals and could even favour good ones but by a long shot they are not all good, and in regard to them great care needs to be taken by all parties, the industry and governments both State and Federal, before anything further takes place. I see no purpose in having a joint venture arrangement unless it is impossible to arrange an Australian operation, and I think it is reasonable to endeavour to deal direct with overseas interests and to go around joint ventures if that is more desirable. In Australia the history of joint ventures is only fair and I believe that the history is relevant to the matter under review. Northern Australia Fisheries Pty Ltd was a joint venture which started operating in February 1 969. It comprised 50 per cent Japanese investment from Taiyo Fisheries of Japan, 25 per cent investment from Peko- Wallsend Ltd and 25 per cent investment from Duval Holdings. It was formed to undertake exploratory fishing and involved nine boats, eight catchers and one mother ship and was licenced to operate out of Darwin. It was provided with a five-year exploration permit and it was required to replace imported vessels with Australian vessels and Australian crews within five years. It was also to build new shore stations. 
The full information on the venture is not easy to get but it is fair to assume that in the period in which the venture operated it would have taken not less than 20 million lb of prawns which then would have had a landed value probably in excess of $15m. Within months of facing its obligations- within three months, I believe- the operation suddenly ceased, the boats fled and the operation left nothing for the industry or for Australia. There was no technology and there were no markets, no trained men, no ships, no shore stations, and the profits went to the Japanese and their connections. 
In 1967 South Sea Fishing Co. Pty Ltd was a joint venture which comprised Fishmaster Pty Ltd of Brisbane and a subsidiary of Taiyo Gyogo and it got a territorial licence to operate from New Guinea. All sorts of proposals were put forward about training New Guineans and using joint crews. The venture operated in the waters of New Guinea for a month or two and then moved straight into the Gulf of Carpentaria. By 1973 the venture had reached the stage where replacement of its boats and crews was due, so after taking, we presume, approximately 14 million lb of prawns with a value in excess of $ 10m it moved out. This was another disaster. I must add that during this period Gollin Holdings Ltd had a joint venture and carried it through fully at Groote Eylandt and Darwin and that business while not in Gollin 's hands at present is still operating satisfactorily today. The Northern Research company has also established and performed a joint venture satisfactorily. The history is not good enough and clearly there need to be rules made and enforced. I no longer see it as a case of a first in any deal situation, and clearly joint ventures need two components to make them work. Firstly, we have to find reputable overseas interests and, secondly, we have to find reputable Australian nominees with Australia's interests at heart. 
I refer again to the Tasmanian situation. I regret that it apparently was not possible for the Tasmanian Minister for Fisheries to participate in this deal. Even when there was a fairly lengthy Press conference it was carried out by the Tasmanian Minister for Development,  Mr Batt,  and. not by the Minister in whose portfolio fishing comes. In a hour-and-a-half Press interview on 22 February  Mr Batt,  besides not answering any questions, left many more questions unanswered. For instance, he has not yet stated why he believed that Tasmania needed a joint venture. He did not say why it was necessary to tie the project up for a 10-year period when there was absolutely no benefit for Tasmania, or why it was necessary to call the project exploratory when it was clearly exploitation, or why it was necessary to approve of seven exploratory squid boats when squid fishing in eastern Tasmania has been thoroughly carried out by Tasmanians in Tasmanian boats, the records of these operations being held by the authorities in Hobart. 
Why did we approve of three exploratory trawlers when only last week we prevented a local trawler from netting in the area in which there were Japanese boats? He did not say why we were to accept a 10 per cent processing clause when it was a 50-50 venture, nor did we find out whether the 10 per cent that we were going to be allowed was the prime fish or the cats' meat. I believe that is of great importance. He did not say why the Government backed down from the 5 1 per cent, 49 per cent proposal, which would have given Australian control, when pressured to do so by the Japanese interests. He did not say why there was no list of the loosely mentioned benefits for Tasmanian fishermen. They were mentioned but there is no list of them to enable us to determine whether they could be considered benefits. He did not say where the development ports would be, and I do not see why they should not be named. Why was no date announced for the work? If those wharves are to be built and if work is to be provided within the period, that should be stated. He did not say why there was no cost estimate of the works which would be required by the joint venturers or why there was no advice as to who would pay for the work which was to be done. Nor did he say why it was recommended that there was no licence fee or why no indemnity payment was sought against us going through another of these northern Australian fishery deals where the joint venturer takes the fish and leaves us with nothing. He did not say why a proposal of this sort had not been discussed with Tasmanian fishermen or existing interests in Tasmania, or why this deal appeared to be better than the one which was rejected out of hand only last year. 
I have investigated some of the local issues with the local people and I have received some information. Over the last few years there has been considerable exploration around Tasmania. It has not been total by any means but we have considerable information on the catching of squid, jack mackerel and other species which were listed in the agreement. There are men in Tasmania, for instance Paddles Taylor and Captain Dick Davies, who are well known in fishing circles around Australia and who have done considerable research. They have carried out work recently and in fact are still doing exploratory work in Tasmanian waters. There are people like the Hurseys, who are well known in other circles, Peter Rockcliff. Dick Richey and the like who know these waters and who have done all manner of exploratory work. They can provide a considerable amount of basic information. They have provided this information and apparently, it has been completely disregarded at a time like this. There are certainly circumstances where extension of the exploration is desirable but at this juncture surely it is not necessary for this exploratory work to be carried out within the 12 mile limit. 1 was on the east coast of Tasmania two or three weeks ago and I was told by local residents that they had had difficulty sleeping at night because of the noise of the Japanese boats and the squid lights on board. I am sure this would not have been the case if the boats had been outside the 12 mile limit. 
We know that there was no Commonwealth approval for these Japanese boats. We know that the whole deal was fixed by the Tasmanian Government some time last year- November or earlier. We know that approval for them to leave Japan and to start fishing was sought by 29 December last year. We know what they were coming for because all the details of the ships, the dates and the functions were published quite openly in Japanese newspapers. We know that they were fishing for squid in Tasmanian waters because this could be seen quite readily from the shore. We also know that the Government was fully aware of the situation and that arrangements were made quite openly by it. We know that the ships caught squid because when a boat was taken into custody it had squid on board. We know that the captain believed that he had all the necessary approvals to be within a few miles of the shore because he said so at his trial. From all this we know that either the Tasmanian Government or the joint venturer believed that obtaining a Commonwealth licence must have been no more than a trivial formality. But the term 'exploratory fishing' is certainly a misnomer. 
The boats were fishing hard and they fished consistently. The Tasmanian fishermen can tell honourable senators exactly when the Japanese fished and where they fished. It would be very hard to justify that what they were doing was an exploratory operation.  Mr Batt  affirmed in the Press that Australian observers would be on board all Japanese boats to supervise the operation to make sure that only the allowed species and areas were fished and to assess the operation from a scientific and technical point of view. That is the announcement he made. But in all the information we have I am unable to find where he ever bothered to complete arrangements with the Federal Government, the Department of Primary Industry, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or anybody else to do with fishing, and to see who would be on board any of these ships. Although, as  Mr Batt  would say, exploratory fishing was clearly under way as arranged, there was apparently no observer on board. Even now I am unable to find whether there has been any technical or scientific assessment record provided by the operators of this fleet since it arrived in Tasmania at the end of January. 
I think the concern which has been shown is very clear. This is obviously a very poor deal. But what we have not found out and what we hopefully may find out one day is from where the benefits of the deal will come. I assert that undoubtedly substantial benefits will go to the Japanese joint venturer. I also assume that  Sir Francis  Duval will have been amply recompensed for his involvement. But having read all the information I can obtain I am unable to find any reference to how good this project will be for Tasmania. Nor am I able to find any advantage in it to the Tasmanian fishermen. There are vague references to participation but there is no single item in writing, or even a suggestion, as to how this will happen.  Mr Batt  rebuked  Mr Bingham  who very correctly saw through the whole mess.  Mr Batt  admitted that he had sought Commonwealth approval for the venture on what he described as an internal document between the joint venture partners. He expected the Federal Government to approve of a deal and, as he said, once the company had been issued with a Commonwealth licence it would have had to put its plan to the Tasmanian fishing authority for approval. I find it incredible that  Mr Batt  or the Tasmanian Government would put forward a proposal about which they had no details and, expect their own gullibility to get through to the Federal Government. 
If it is possible to have a good fishing venture in Tasmania I, and I think all the fishermen and other interests will certainly be wholeheartedly behind it. But there is no future for Tasmania in being sold a deal which has no virtue and no continuing value. If we approve a deal which is as disadvantageous as this we will prejudice the whole operation of fishing and joint venturing in Australian waters as a whole from here on in. I had no hesitation then in expressing my opposition to it nor do I have any hesitation now. 
Another point on which I would like to touch quickly in the time remaining deals with industry generally. I do not wish to enlarge on matters such as employment and unemployment, but I do wish to say that Australia as a trading country obviously has to buy and sell. The best market for Australian goods surely must still be Australia. We are a major manufacturing country. We need to remember that. I am wholeheartedly behind the appeal to 'Buy Australian'. I am not saying that we should buy Australian regardless, but I am saying that we should look first at the label. Whenever possible we should choose an item with an Australian label. That applies to textiles and clothing, footwear and carpets, motor vehicles, paper and paper products, timber and timber products, and goods such as cheese and wine. 
Over the last few years it has been possible to see the way in which our position in some of these industries has tended to decline. In 1968-69, 33 per cent of the market supply of textiles, yarns and woven fabrics was imported. By 1973-74 that figure had reached 43 per cent, which represented an increase during the period of 30 per cent. I might point out that these are the latest figures I was able to obtain from the Industries Assistance Commission. In the same period the figure for knitted materials increased by 77 per cent, clothing by 160 per cent, footwear by 140 per cent, wood products and items of that nature by 40 per cent, electrical appliances and equipment by 26 per cent, and leather and leather products by 33 per cent. There were many reasons for that increase and for its continuation beyond 1973, but, whatever the reasons, it is absolutely deadly for our economy at present. I understand very well the position of the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations and I also understand the Australian position. In the case of many of the imports there is no quality advantage and no price advantage, but in the majority of cases, regrettably, the goods are coming in because of the higher retail margins. These imports are very damaging to local manufacturers and there is little benefit to the consumer. 
I implore people to look first at the label and, if the item is imported, to check the local alternative. It may be their jobs that we are trying to save. It may even be the firm for which they or their families work that we are trying to save. A friend of mine usually gives quite nice gifts to .his employees and to various friends at Christmas. He is in an industry which is very substantially import competitive I noticed that this year his gifts were import competitive goods. In that respect I would say to Australians: Before you look for imported liquor from Portugal, France or Germany, look at the Australian product. Until you have tried all the Australian wines, please do not buy from overseas. Do not buy an imported car until you have proved that you cannot get an Australian car that suits you. The Australian cheddar, edam and gouda cheeses are equal to any in the world, but the retailer margin assists the imported cheeses and consumer snobbery makes it 'flash' for customers to be seen at the counter for imported cheeses. It may be those customers whose jobs we are trying to save. 
I do not want to attack the local retail trade but I would like to throw up a point for consideration. In the case of the big retailers particularly I have found that the situation is quite acute. The treatment of the Australian clothing industry has been both rotten and disgraceful. Absolutely no credit should go to the firms involved. I have had many complaints, and I imagine most other members of this chamber have had them, of the treatment of the industry not by overseas countries but by Australian firms. Many of the big retailers think that it is quite reasonable to go overseas and place orders for goods with a six, nine or even twelve months delivery date. They have no guarantees, no recourse of any sort. They then come home and grind the local manufacturers into totally unreasonable terms of delivery to fill in around their imports. The retailers do this on a basis that they could not get and would not seek from their overseas suppliers. 
In many cases they leave orders for the local manufacturers until it is too late to supply for the season for which the goods are required but they expect the local manufacturers to stay solvent, to stay in business, and to be ready to go into action at a moment's notice. That is totally unreasonable. The solution to the problem lies mainly in the hands of the largest Australian firms. The big firms have the ability to make or break and, regrettably, too often it seems that they deliberately take the latter course. I ask all customers to look at the label and to buy Australian. 
It is my wish that the Government should sponsor an Australian trade fair, which I think should be held in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, to display in one area items of clothing, footwear and so on for the whole of the Australian trade. Whilst I recognise the problems retailers have in adequately covering the manufacturers and the vast distances involved, it is necessary to do something to make that possible. The benefit of holding a trade fair would lie in the fact that the manufacturers could get together and see how they compared with one another. They could meet the widest possible range of potential customers, they could assess the products of their opposition in a variety of fields, and they could meet their competitors for general discussions, planning and co-operation. All sorts of benefits accrue to the customerretailer when in one place he is able to see and compare a whole range of goods. He can make real comparisons as to price and quality when he can see all the goods together. Such a trade fair would avoid the necessity of visiting many factories in many different cities and would enable the suppliers of accessories and so on to get together. 
I ask: Would any of the six big retailers welcome a major Hong Kong merchandiser coming in under Hong Kong rules and setting up next to them? If they would not, then 1 ask those retailers to think a little more about the clothing manufacturer because he is in exactly the same position. I would like the Government to support the provision of signs to retailers for display in their shops stating that all the goods in the shop, the window or display, as the case may be, were of Australian manufacture and that for Australia's sake one should buy Australian. Remember, whenever we hear people talking critically about unemployment we should make sure that in the first place they are buying Australian. 
Is the Minister for Science aware of the operation of a subsidy system in the United States of America which provides a financial inducement for private individuals to install approved solar heating devices for approved purposes as a means of encouraging energy conservation? Does the Minister see such a scheme as providing worthwhile benefits in Australia? If so, will he pursue the matter with the Treasurer? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Attention has been drawn to a margarine price war which is having a detrimental effect on the producer sections of both the oilseed industry and the dairy industry. Attention has also been drawn to the fact that there have been price reductions of as much as 35c on margarine retailing at approximately 90c, which is a 40 per cent reduction. If the product can face such a massive price cut, it appears that ample room exists for an inquiry into the pricing of the product to assess whether the producers of oilseeds are underpaid or whether the subsequent margins are grossly excessive. Will the Minister endeavour to have such an inquiry initiated? 
I would like to say how much I appreciated  Senator Brown's  comments. I found the information that he provided very interesting and so typical of so many industries throughout Australia. Most speakers have covered very carefully the various items proposed in the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill and the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, and I believe it would be more appropriate if I spoke in slightly more general terms about a range of trade and industry questions involving tariffs and the Industries Assistance Commission. 
It is fair to say that we are all free traders at heart. Many industries require and receive assistance but I do not think any of them relish the position they are in. Certainly those which do not receive assistance would not relish their position. Tariffs in any form are never popular but they are also little understood by the public at large. They are always subject to great publicity. They are always the basis of considerable disagreement and they are usually subject to gross journalistic distortion, depending which side of the argument anyone takes. 
Before we can really start to come to grips with tariffs we have to consider their historical background. We do not have to look very far into Australia's history to find that Australia was once basically a primary producing country whose export income came from wool, wheat and frozen meat. That was the order in my school days. Subsequently minerals started to play a fairly important part and started to distort the position somewhat and to cause the Australian population to move about. At about the same time the Australian people started to become concerned about what they regarded as the vast yellow hordes moving south and decided that what Australia needed was people. Those people needed jobs and we adopted the principle of buying industries to employ the people who were coming into Australia. We went out of our way to try to find labour intensive industries. They were preferred. We also became involved in the import substitute argument. We went to great lengths to isolate the items we were buying with a view to setting up an industry to produce them or to induce an overseas firm to come in and produce them. At that stage we all went along with what was happening and we were quite satisfied. 
As is being found in countries that have developed since, we found that generally as standards increase problems really commence. In Australia, slowly but surely the position began to decline and we soon found ourselves heading into lower production areas. We found that greater mining returns were starting to influence the gross national income. We went through a period of huge wage claims and a general loss of competitiveness with the less developed countries. We brought more people into Australia. To them as to us, Australia is home. I do not think that it is in anybody's mind that we should now ask them to go away. I do not think that it is in anybody's mind that we should immediately put them all on the dole. But I think we have to look for some sort of solution, bearing in mind these two extreme alternatives. 
We would all like free trade. I think we all understand and appreciate the regularly propounded position of countries that belong to the Association of South East Asian Nations. Generally speaking, we appreciate their position more than they appreciate ours. The trade statistics establish that Australia treats the ASEAN countries far better than do any of their other trading partners. Ten years ago we would not have thought that an Industries Assistance Commission would be necessary. As little as ten years ago we were still relatively competitive and our industries were still building up. It is only as a result of what has happened that some sort of organisation has become necessary. The times have changed and the circumstances are not the same. We find now that even the IAC has to be changed. 
When we look over the businesses that are established in Australia we find, firstly, a group of local industries which purely and simply cater for a local trade. Secondly, we find a group of overseas industries which have decided to manufacture their products in Australia and which have Australian markets. Thirdly, we find a group of overseas companies which shelter in Australia behind the over-generous tariff protection that they are able to obtain. Finally, we find a group of local industries with high skills and technology which are able to meet the world markets and succeed both at home and overseas. The various industries obviously need different treatment according to the categories into which they fall. We can be proud of a great number of our companies. We only have to look at the list of export award winners to see that some particularly fine efforts have been recorded, in the main by a group of fairly small companies. Many of them are family companies. They have met the market. They have competed in the real outside world, and they have done it the hard way, and prospered. We have to give them full support. 
At the other end of the scale, we have a small group of overseas firms which came in because they thought Australia was a soft and foolish place where they could achieve an advantage. They provided as little as they could, sheltered under any of the Australian weaknesses they could find and have succeeded in taking advantage of the tariff situation. This was spelt out fairly clearly in the IAC inquiry into the ball bearing industry which, whilst I am not singling out the ball bearing firms, is a typical example of the class of industry I have mentioned. It is reasonable now to give notice that these sorts of operations can no longer continue down the primrose path and will have to face reality and come to grips with bad technology, low initiative, even the question of non-competition with their companies from overseas, and poor planning. A business that is generally covered by tariff overprotection will just have to come to heel. 
Apparently the biggest problem class at present is the labour intensive industries although some of these, as  Senator Brown  said, are as efficient as any in the world. At this stage we have to consider efficiency as being based more on the productivity standards of the people involved than on any other basis. I do not think that we can look just at the industries which are disadvantaged on costs alone when there are some industries that are neither efficient nor in receipt of a cost advantage. Certainly I would put clothing in the former group because the standards by which our clothing manufacturers operate are as efficient as any in the world. On a garment per person per hour basis we are at least as efficient as any of the good manufacturers anywhere in the world. I believe that we would have to put shipbuilding in the latter group and perhaps the car industry is fairly close behind it. 
What we have to realise is that these operations create secondary problems. For instance, if we have a non-competitive shipbuilding industry it will not be long before we are heading towards a non-competitive fishing or transport industry. Many of these industries are unable to pass their costs down the line. This is particularly so in the case of primary industries. To overcome this inability to some extent, we have to take drastic remedial action. I consider that two things are necessary. Last Wednesday I spoke for some time about a 'buy Australian' program which, I believe, is still as important as ever. The second is an improved export incentive scheme. These can be achieved through the encouragement of support for Australian industries whether we are going to export their products or use them locally. I am awaiting a new promotion scheme that will encourage more of our manufacturers and producers generally to export more of their product and to go out and actively work on selling goods to countries with which we have not previously dealt or on selling more to countries with whom we have previously dealt. Everything that we buy overseas weakens our industries at home and we accelerate the weakness by the more we buy. I have never said that we should buy Australian regardless but I have said that we should buy Australian whenever we can. We have to consider ways to make buying Australian easier. 
A few months ago I decided to embark on an investigation. I asked all the export firms in Tasmania how they were proceeding and what type of assistance they felt was applicable to their industries. I would now like to put on the public record that I had a most magnificent response from a wide cross section of industry in Tasmania and received some very sound suggestions. I found out the basis of the problems that they faced. Tasmania, representing approximately three per cent of the Australian economy, provides a very easily sampled and complete cross section of industry, lt gave me a particularly good insight into what is happening throughout Australia. The investigation revealed that nearly all industries were aware of a most beneficial scheme that operates in New Zealand. It was introduced in New Zealand for almost the same reasons that I have outlined here tonight. Many of the manufacturers to whom I spoke were well aware of the New Zealand scheme and could tell me how it had affected their businesses. Naturally they like the thought of a scheme that would go some way down the road towards providing the benefits that apply in New Zealand. 
I had quoted to me many instances of how the scheme benefits industry. One case I was told about involved the New Zealand carpet industry. A big move is currently under way to establish a fairly large carpet industry in New Zealand. When the New Zealand firms have sold as much as they can at the best price they can, they start to achieve benefits proportionate to the amount of extra business that they get. I understand that it is possible to buy in Australia carpet which normally would cost $100 a yard for approximately $40 a yard because of the benefits that go to the New Zealand export firms. It sounds incredible but I understand that it is correct. I found also that there are many cases where we suffer because of the trade policies of other countries. This again is applicable to the primary industries though they are not alone. I feel that the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority have in the past shown a great tardiness to grapple with some of the problems that have been drawn to their attention. I have always found that it was far easier to have an erring Australian firm brought to heel than it was to have an erring overseas firm brought to heel. I have endeavoured to bring many instances before the Department and the Minister at times and my success rate in having them looked into has not been terribly high. However, I trust that this is one of the areas over which there will be greater surveillance. 
We certainly have to compete to survive and the costs that we operate under are pertinent to that survival. Therefore we have to consider that the alternative to assisting a declining industry is that the people from that industry are likely to be on the public payroll for some time. I am still a free trader at heart and am not prepared to abolish protection as a means of getting there overnight. We have to start making some definite plans about the direction in which we are heading. The present scheme is not sufficient to get industries to go out and aggressively promote exports. To substantially build export will undoubtedly cost money. But it is my opinion that those costs are offset in five different ways. Firstly, there is a lower unemployment benefit payment. Secondly, there is increased plant investment. Thirdly, there are higher profits and increased taxation. Fourthly, there is a flow on to primary and service investments. Fifthly, the experience gained from overseas marketing is of great value. Another advantage is that this type of operation can be readily quantified, which is a point many people would like to keep closer to. It is a system that hopefully both accentuates the positive and goes towards eliminating the negative. We have to look after the people who are involved, many of whom are migrants. We paid them to come here and we still want them here. It certainly is not their fault that circumstances have changed. 
It is up to us right now to consider this position, and consider it honourably. But in the meantime there has to be a shift from the bad to the good, from the uneconomic to the economic and so on. The Industries Assistance Commission with the Temporary Assistance Authority has a big job to do- a job which covers nearly all of these grey areas. It is a matter of determining viability; of determining what constitutes reasonable competition; of establishing what is dumping and so on. Even more, it is a matter of assessing groups for protection or not for protection. All of these are very difficult areas; they are certainly matters of opinion. I make a plea that this matter be determined on a basis of productivity rather than profitability. If our work force, technology and mechanisation enables us to demonstrate efficiency on a productivity basis I believe that that industry deserves support. Consideration is also certainly justified for segments onprocessing our natural resources or primary production. But let us with no doubts and no remorse serve notice on those who have to, as the Navy says, shape up or ship out. Let industry be aware of the government policy. Let us encourage it to meet the market, expand or contract, mechanise, diversify or whatever with the full knowledge of the long-term future. With Ministry changes come policy changes and as we wait daily for announcements we can assure the Government that all industry, primary, secondary and service sections alike, is waiting ready to go, but waiting to be given the right direction. I support the Bills before the Senate but not the amendment. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: 
What stage has the bluetongue testing program reached? Have cattle been tested in all States? When is it expected that the results will be known? Can the program be pursued with a view to removing from quarantine first those States or areas least likely to be affected? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science. Having raised here on occasions over the last two years the question of butter presentation and spreadability, I ask the Minister: Is he aware that Australian domestic consumption of butter has approximately halved in less than 10 years? Can he advise what progress, if any, has been made with the butter blending project, and what are the major impediments at present to its development? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry enlarge on the statement made by the Minister for Primary Industry on the question of feasibility fishing? Can he advise whether, subject to basic criteria being observed, there is a departmental list of feasibility fishing studies that are judged to be desirable and of which investigation would be encouraged? Will Australian fishermen be consulted as to their knowledge of new feasibility fishing proposals before fishing commitments are given? Will Australian fishermen be given the first opportunity to undertake any exploratory fishing that the Government judges to be desirable, irrespective of who may make the initial specific application? Does the Government believe it is desirable to encourage more Australian boats and fishermen to undertake exploratory fishing and does it believe that we should expect the best possible recording and reporting from such Australian sources? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Has the Government been approached by the Tasmanian Government for assistance in a power alcohol research project based on sugar beet? Has the question been considered? If so, has a decision been made? If not, when is it expected that the investigations will be finalised? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources to a report in the  Australian  of 9 March that 'A new shipping service began last Monday with the arrival of the  Waitaki  from 
New Zealand', and that 'She has slots for 30 refrigerated containers, and a considerable part of her cargo is expected to be meat exported to Australia by the Waitaki freezing works in New Zealand '. If this report is correct, can the Minister advise who is the Australian agent for these imports, the type of meat likely to be imported, the reason for such importation, whether the cargo on the first voyage included any meat and, if so, how much? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: Has the Government considered the application for both exploratory and exploitive fishing for squid and trawl fish put forward by the Tasmanian Government in association with Tasmanian Fisheries Co. Pty Ltd? If so, can the Minister advise what the decision was and the main details thereof? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In January 1978 it was announced that the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Industry and Commerce were examining whether the question of increasing cheese imports should be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission and that submissions were awaited from the cheese manufacturers to enable that decision to be made. Have submissions been received from the cheese industry? Have the departments mentioned considered the matter? Will the inquiry go ahead as the imports of cheese which are still increasing are causing real problems to what has been one of the few satisfactory areas of the dairy industry? 
-On behalf of  Senator Lewis,  I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Telephone users outside major metropolitan telephone districts, particularly those conducting businesses outside those districts, suffer an unfair burden for fees charged for calls. 
The system of charging for calls on the basis of distances between non-adjoining zones instead of for the time of the call is unreasonable. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should require Telecom Australia to meter all calls, including local calls, and charge a uniform rate on a time basis regardless of distance between calling parties. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. Following the answer given to  Senator Melzer  yesterday on the transfer of Public Service staff to Canberra, can the Minister advise, or would he have the Minister whom he represents ascertain, whether the National Capital Development Commission or the Department of the Capital Territory have estimated the total population increase likely in the Australian Capital Territory in 1978-79 as a result of the 500 transfers mentioned, and based on normal projections for the transferees, their immediate families and the normal ancillary back-up provisions? Also, taking all other factors into consideration, what total population increase in Canberra is projected for the year 1978-79? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As new shipping schedules involving the Blue Star Line and the Gulf Line have not included any Tasmanian ports, and as centralising facilities applying to Melbourne and Adelaide do not include Tasmanian transshipment, will the Minister take steps to have these companies recognise the position of Tasmanian shippers who need the service for their trade to the Middle East but who, at present, are disadvantaged in some cases to the extent of almost $ 100 a tonne on freight from Tasmania to Melbourne? 
-I welcome the Maritime College Bill 1978, and I rise to speak only briefly but wholeheartedly in support of it. Initially I wish to pay tribute to the great work done by the Interim Council and to the tremendous progress it has made in the time since it was appointed in achieving the standards that it has so far. I feel also that it is appropriate to thank  Senator Rae  for what he has done and for the way in which he has persisted to ensure that we should reach this stage. The arrangements for the College are now well in hand. With the passing of time it has been shown that the site was extremely well selected and that it is a very suitable site for the operation envisaged. I believe that its association with the northern campus of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education will provide great benefits to both bodies. In particular, the Maritime College will provide a lot of strength to the College of Advanced Education in areas such as engineering and mathematics. 
Australia can well use a college of this type of international standard, and I have no doubt that those responsible for the Maritime College will ensure that it develops in that way. It has already become apparent that the main shipowners in Australia welcome the establishment of the College and the provision of facilities for the training of cadets, and  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Rae  both mentioned that. I do not think many of us have any real idea of how big an operation this is likely to become in the years ahead. Other interests such as fishing will derive great benefit from it, and those who have special interests should ensure that their views are made known to the College. There is no doubt that the College will serve the whole of Australia, and probably New Zealand and many other countries in the region at the same time. I expect that the staff will come from all over the world, and in that regard we are assured that actual seafaring experience will be a prerequisite for all staff members in any of the nautical areas of the course. The Port of Launceston Authority is also entitled to be listed specially amongst those who have done a lot to assist in the early stages, and its encouragement and interest should be recorded and recognised. The success of the venture will depend very largely on co-operation between the PLA and the College. I have met the principal, Captain Waters, and I was most impressed by his infectious enthusiasm, which I believe will be transferred to all those with whom he associates and will ensure the success of the College. 
A start in 1980 is envisaged and the full complement of approximately 500 is expected by 1 984 or thereabouts. The Newnham section will provide education for graduates with an associate diploma, a diploma or a degree in nautical science, radio engineering, marine engineering, electronics and matters of that sort. The Beauty 
Point area will provide the seamanship course and, hopefully, it will have a ship of approximately 200 feet with accommodation for up to 50 people to cover the practical seamanship area. The existing jetty and adjacent buildings will be utilised as far as possible, and that has worked in very well with the plans put together by the Interim Council. The College will cater for refresher courses for both ships' officers and fishermen and will provide specialist courses of all types. It is hoped that both evening and external courses in seamanship and boatmanship will be available. 
More and more changes in the Australian way of life seem to be making the sea relatively more significant than it was previously. The rights and responsibilities involved in the 320 kilometre territorial waters legislation are going to figure very prominently. Too often only the rights and possible advantages have been taken into account. Vast international responsiblities also have to be considered. At this time fishing shows us many of the responsibilities that we have to face. For instance, our own fishermen are starting to feel their sea legs and are viewing potential new markets for fish around the world. They are starting to look at these added waters, as things have changed in other countries which also have taken on extra territorial waters. 
Our own fishermen are planning for an increased utilisation of the area. Until now they have not taken a great interest in the further waters for two main reasons: Firstly, that Australia itself was not a great fish eating country and, secondly, that there were many markets that were not apparent until recently. But with the actions of the other countries all this has changed. The Australian fishermen will need greater skills and better technology in seamanship. The College will be able to assist a great deal in these ways. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  announced that at present he has on his desk about 48 proposals for joint venture fishing. The responsibilities of the Australian interests in these ventures are very high. I know the details of some of them and I have had the pleasure of meeting some of those people who are seeking joint venture arrangements. I look forward to some joint ventures, providing they are good for Australia, but they must be to our advantage. A couple of propositions have had quite an amount of discussion and are well known but they did not provide the sons of safeguards or of involvement that I believe are desirable at this time. I will support willingly what will be best for Australia and best for the Australian fishermen. 
The College will give them the opportunity to capitalise on the new limit by giving them better qualifications and a better education to start with. It can do a lot to see that our own fishermen are better equipped than they have been in the past. For Tasmania it will be a most desirable boost. The number of students involved, plus the staff, their families and all the ancillary services, will lift the economy of the area and the fares, accommodation and general funding will be of some significance. The people are right behind the proposal and it will be successful. I personally appreciate the extent to which the Government has ensured its viability. I support the Bill with enthusiasm and wish all those lucky people who will be associated with the College success and happiness. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I preface my question by saying that it has been alleged that during recent weeks more than 6,000,000 lb of peas and beans have been imported from New Zealand. It has been further alleged that they are being placed in Australian shops on a basis which must be regarded as dumping, at 40 per cent below the ruling Australian price under the brand name 'Logan Farm'. Can the Minister advise whether the allegations are correct? If they are correct, what corrective action has been, or will be, taken? 
I direct a question to either the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce or the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Can either Minister advise when it is expected that the responsible Minister will be making a statement relating to revisions of the export incentive scheme? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Does the Minister know or could he ascertain whether as a result of recent ministerial discussions any changes were made to arrangements in trading with New Zealand under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement that would either advantage or disadvantage Australian producers of cheese, vegetables, timber or paper pulp? 
Is the Minister for Science in a position to advise the Senate of the extent of proposed works for the atmospheric monitoring station at Cape Grim on the north-western tip of Tasmania? Can he advise the Senate of the likely extent of the staffing of the project and what will be the likely period of development? 
I support the Bill but I cannot support the amendment because I do not think it is necessary, inasmuch as there is nothing in the Bill which prevents the matter being kept under review. Until it is resolved what is the best use of public funds- no one can tell me what this is- some pause cannot be considered as other than desirable, particularly when no projection available at this time can show a potential demand, on any known projection, in excess of the current net plantings in Australia. The Bill provides $4.2 m for tending the previous plantings which have followed the 1 1 years of operation of the various softwood assistance Acts that have been introduced since 1967. The purpose of the earlier Acts was to make Australia self-supporting in softwoods, and neither I nor anybody else here would dispute that in any way. It is generally agreed that the demand for timber is likely to double by the year 2000. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  stated the difference between the two Acts when he said: 
The purpose of the previous softwood planting agreements was to increase softwood plantings by the State governments to a level related to Australia 's future needs for forest products ... a continuation of planting at the relatively high levels supported under the previous agreements would lead in the long term to an oversupply situation. 
He said that this Bill should continue to provide finance to meet the same proportion of the States' maintenance expenditure on the total area of softwood plantations established in the 11 -year period. The current Bill was fully discussed and agreement was reached by the Australian Forestry Council and its Standing Committee. My own State agreed that it would go along with the arrangement that was made and, of course, it is currently looking forward to receiving the money without delay. 
The levels of softwood forest plantings are constantly under review, as the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech. There is nothing in the Bill which restrains any revision of the current planting programs which, as honourable senators may well know, have been averaging in the vicinity of 33,300 hectares a year and currently total approximately 1.5 m acres. There is no question of cutting out the plantings altogether. Even this year in excess of two-thirds of the peak plantings will be planted. Approximately 12,000 hectares will be planted in the public sector and about 10,000 hectares will be planted in the private sector. That is sufficient to cover all projections that are currently recognised anywhere in Australia. The recent Industries Assistance Commission timber inquiry, whilst investigating imports in particular, produced much evidence on the industry generally. There was very little which was new but a re-statement of the facts was very valuable and provided a lot of fundamental information that we can continue to use. 
In considering this Bill we must consider not only softwoods but also the timber industry generally. I do not believe that it is possible to consider one aspect out of context with the total industry. I fully agree with the Tasmanian Forestry Commission and the Tasmanian Government on that point. Like so many traditional Australian industries, milling has gone and is going through a massive adjustment period. It is a labour intensive industry and in Tasmania it has provided many special advantages. Over 80 per cent of the industry is non-urban, non-metropolitan. Over 70 per cent of the industry comprises businesses of nine people or fewer. In fact, 30 per cent have four people or fewer. The assessments on the future and on the industry itself are very difficult. When the industry looks at the information that is provided by a range of academics, builders, politicians and people within the industry itself, it is very hard to see what the future may actually hold. Much has been written and it varies widely but the best sources of information are fairly similar in that they show how many grey areas there are in the overall scheme. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics still has to be regarded as probably the best source and it raised this problem in the report it produced in 1977 entitled 'The Australian Softwood Products Industry'. On page 127 it said: 
A consideration of the economic indicators of scarcity and the limited data on world resources suggests that the case for a sustained shortage of wood in world-wide terms is unlikely . . . 
Further down the page it stated: 
On the evidence available it could not be demonstrated that imports displace Australian products from the market to any great extent. 
Those comments caused a lot of concern during the Industries Assistance Commission inquiry. Who can tell what the future requirements are purely on a simple technological basis? What will timber not be used for in a few years time for which it is being used today? Conversely, what will timber be used for for which it is not used today? 
New Zealand, which has already been mentioned, is very much a timber country. In the last three to four years over 75 per cent of all houses built have had concrete floors. Even in Western Australia over 80 per cent of all new houses have concrete floors. This is a big inroad into the supply of hardwood timber which was traditionally used in Australia. This has happened not only with floors. We are now using light metal frames and roof trusses. There are more brick houses. Aluminium windows, barges and facias are being used. We are even using metal door frames. The average large commercial structure now has virtually no timber at all in it. Will the trend continue to increase or will it swing back? These are queries just in the field of technology. The industry generally faces the sorts of problems that no one is in a position to assess accurately. There are problems not only in the use of timber but also in its growing and harvesting. Likely building levels also have to be considered. A study of various population and building projections shows that the estimated number of houses likely to be built per year currently varies from 150,000 to 120,000. We are probably using 35 per cent to 40 per cent less timber now than we used 15 to 20 years ago. 
Another important factor which is affecting the timber industry generally is the conversion to pine from hardwood. Hardwood has particular problems but the two kinds of timber are inextricably tied together for various reasons. One of the articles I was reading recently said that it could be expected that within the next two decades pine will replace hardwood almost completely in the building industry. In the last four years the production of hardwood has dropped by 5 per cent. The production of softwood has increased by 17 per cent. I believe that it is a trend which we will continue to see. It is not possible to discuss or consider a softwood industry without considering the entire timber industry. They are interchangeable to a large degree. How we merge the two will have a lot of bearing on the requirements for and the uses of timber in years to come. As we know, hardwood costs are high and recoveries are low. But the two kinds of timber cannot be separated totally. It is not possible to consider softwoods without hardwoods and the needs, demand and degrees of interchangeability. 
The funding for timber also has to be considered jointly. We have to consider how public funding can best provide for the requirements of the future. Should funds go to native forests? 
Should they go to public sector softwoods or hardwoods or to private sector softwoods or hardwoods? We have to determine in which way public funding will produce the best results overall. No conclusive report has been made on this matter. I shall suggest later in my speech that one should be prepared. 
I could not support a decline in forestry. I look to the Government to make decisions for forestry based on a thorough and proper investigation of the needs and resources available. Page 133 of the BAE report sets out a list of items. Under the heading ' Future Research ' it states: 
During the course of preparation of this report, it became apparent that further research into the following items would be most useful for a more detailed evaluation of the economics ofthe Australian softwood industry: the availability of hardwood supplies, in the light of existing or likely constraint on this resource; trends in population; trends in the rate of private softwood plantings; trends in GIMP; movements in the international export market; and trends in housing construction. 
The Bureau recognises that it is very difficult to produce a report unless it has all sorts of information which is not currently available. I fully support the need for research in all these areas. We are reaching the stage where our hardwood supplies may well need to be reserved for specialist jobs such as furniture and the various mouldings for which Tasmania is so well known, with the balance going into the pulping industry. 
Having mentioned mouldings, it is appropriate for me to refer to the Industries Assistance Commission report. The 15 per cent tariff mentioned in that report has caused great concern in Tasmania. Because of the very high quality of the Tasmanian timbers and the mouldings that come from them, the competition from overseas in these items is very great. The Tasmanian industry is very important to Tasmania in that 60 per cent ofthe total production is exported. It has recently been helped substantially by the introduction and implementation of the freight equalisation scheme. This has enabled the Tasmanian millers to reach their mainland markets on a more competitive basis. The Tasmanian Forestry Commission is of a very high standard. It has done an excellent job. It is a large industry which is apparent by the financial commitment in this Bill wherein Tasmania gets the highest per capita amount which is over 10 per cent of the total. The Tasmanian Forestry Commission has under its control 30,000 hectares of pine while the private sector has 12,000 hectares. In 1977-78 the Forestry Commission planted 1,700 hectares. The projection for 1978-79 is for a further 1,500 hectares. This is apart from what is being planted by the private sector. 
During the 1 1-year period in which the softwood forestry agreements have been operating the Forestry Commission has planted approximately 20,000 hectares of pines of which virtually half has been planted through Commonwealth funding. There are about 10 millers of softwoods in Tasmania. Regrettably, they do not enjoy a very happy situation at present. Their profitability is insufficient and the royalty position is unclear. They have difficulties trying to interpret the mind of the State Government which seems to vary the royalty rate substantially. At the moment a discussion is taking place and an inquiry is to be held because in one instance a rate of $ 14 a cubic metre is being sought while $7.23 a cubic metre is being offered. That means one of two things. Either the growing costs are too high and the royalty is too high or the millers obviously lack a lot of skills and have far too low a recovery rate. I do not think that either of those propositions is quite correct. However, I believe that for there to be such a difference in the price asked we must be getting fairly close to one side or the other of that equation. 
The whole point is that no industry can be sound and satisfying unless its merchandising is effective, efficient and profitable. The industry cannot prosper if the amount of royalty that is being sought is excessive. The largest and newest operator in this field, Tasmanian Softwoods, was recently totally destroyed by fire. Its future depends entirely on the negotiations over royalty. At present the whole government attitude in Tasmania on milling generally is not clear and needs to be clarified. The whole industry wants to know what is really the Tasmanian Government's attitude to forestry. So much depends on that. After the report of a recent Industries Assistance Commission inquiry was released  Mr Batt,  the Treasurer of Tasmania, was quoted in the Press as commenting on it. An article in the  Mercury  of 8 April under the heading 'Hope for rise in timber protection ' stated: 
The Treasurer,  Mr Batt,  said yesterday he was optimistic that the State's timber industry would get increased tariff protection. 
An article by Lance Norman in the  Australian Financial Review  of the same day under the heading 'Forestry concessions in Tasmania may go 'stated: 
Tasmania's pulp and paper industry, one of the largest in the State, faces a threat to its forestry concessions. 
What the Tasmanian Minister for Mines, Forests and Environment, also the Hydro Electric Commission,  Mr Andrew  Lowrey, is considering, is in effect tearing up the existing Acts and starting again. 
The attitude of paper company chief executives is that if Tasmania 's Labor Premier,  Mr Douglas  Lowe, does repudiate the Acts, ' he will never get another major industry again '. 
We need to know where we stand. If the industry at large is to develop it must know more about its future than it does at present. We have to look at the softwood industry over the next 50 years because with quicker growth, higher yields, lower labour and better technology this industry must continue to produce products which are more readily usable than the slower growing and lower return hardwoods. The hardwood areas are being reduced by government actions. That may also change the predictions. At present the Forestry Commission is making every effort to back the hardwood industry and it is more interested in regenerating the hardwood areas than has ever been the case. With the work that is being done by the paper manufacturers, the millers and the chippers in the softwood areas a great deal is also being done in the hardwood areas. 
The import question has recently been subject to much comment. It has been stated that approximately 25 per cent of all the timber used in Australia is imported and that 40 per cent of all the paper pulp is imported. We seem to buy our timber from Canada, New Zealand and the Far East in particular and our pulp comes mainly from New Zealand and Scandinavia. Having been through the report of the Industries Assistance Commission it would appear that possibly only 10 per cent to 15 per cent of what is imported is at this stage reasonably substitutable. Many of the lines of timber that are bought are imported because they serve a particular purpose. Problems will arise because of New Zealand's wish to export timber. Australia and New Zealand have similar problems. Both countries have similar aims and a similar ability to produce timber. I think it is unfortunate that a clash on this matter between Australia and New Zealand is inevitable. However, we have to proceed with our own programs. I think we have to try to negotiate our way through the world markets and to see that both of our countries obtain the best advantage possible, but not at one another's expense. 
It is also apparent that most of the imports are brought in by major Australian manufacturers. The dealers in Australian timbers are also the biggest importers. I hope that they will look seriously at whether they can buy more Australian timber wherever it is possible to do so. I look to Australians generally to buy Australian, and that includes timber, timber products and paper. To me, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is not infallible, but its report on the Australian softwood products industry was well based and its general findings, based on the information it had, have not been seriously questioned. Those findings are under constant review. The 1975 House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation reported on the softwood forest agreements. Whilst that Committee looked at specific aspects, it did draw some fairly relevant conclusions, not the least of which was finding No. (ii) on page 3 of the report, which states: 
There is a need for a softwoods planting program, possibly on a lesser scale than that planted at present. 
The Committee took a rather superficial view of the industry but it had sufficient evidence to influence it to make that comment. I believe that that indicates that the whole question has to be inspected fairly closely to make sure that we cover the needs. 
An academic paper was produced at the Australian Forests Development Institute conference at Mount Gambier in 1977 at which Douglas and Treadwell demonstrated with considerable research and depth the best available projections they could come up with. Their method has been soundly questioned and it has been queried from a whole variety of areas but it has not been disproved as yet. On page 15 of their paper they state: 
. it was calculated that a planting rate of 10,100 ha per annum for the years 1976 to 1980 will be required for sawlog self-sufficiency to be maintained to 2,020 and 1 ,600 ha per annum for pulpwood self-sufficiency to be achieved in the years 2001 to 2005. This provides a total plantation requirement of 1 1,700 ha per annum from 1976 to 1980. In order to maintain sawlog self-sufficiency for the decade after 2020 the required post- 1980 planting rate is 25,260 ha per annum. 
These estimated plantation requirements are well below the average rates of around 33,000 ha per annum which have actually been attained in recent years in Australia. 
There is quite a lot in that article with which I do not agree, but at this stage nobody in the timber industry or from around the timber industry has been able to come up with any evidence to indicate that what they said was wrong. 
The Bill merely puts into force an agreement which was made last year with the States to cover a specific operation which has already run nearly 12 months. In no way does it prevent further funding of forestry- softwoods or hardwoods, private sector or public sector. In fact, I believe it does the opposite. It gives a challenge to the Government to reassess the whole position and to act on the best recommendations that can be put forward. Accordingly, I will be taking the opportunity at the appropriate time to promote the following proposition: 
That the following matter be referred to the appropriate committee: 
From what sources should Australia aim to meet its timber requirements: 
Native forests; 
Government plantation softwood and hardwood; 
Private plantation softwood and hardwood; 
Import. 
Should Australia aim to export forest products? 
What action should the Government take to achieve the desirable course of action? 
That is entirely separate from the point of this Bill which, as I said, is no more than regularising arrangements which were made with the States last year. On the understanding that this proposed motion will come forward, I support the Bill. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry by reminding him that on 14 March I sought information on the buttermargarine question. I wish to follow that up now. Does the Minister know whether any steps have been taken by either the dairy industry or the margarine industry to produce a combined product? Has the Australian Dairy Corporation taken any active steps in the matter, and if so what have these been? Is there any real or possible problem within the dairy industry that is retarding, or could retard, any such development? 
-Can the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development advise the progress to date of the housing cost inquiry and an estimate of when the report is likely to be presented? 
-by leave-  Mr President,  I believe it is quite unacceptable to receive a 1974-75 report on 5 May 1978. 1 accept the statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  that it was a requirement under section 32 of the AlburyWodonga Development Act to obtain the approval of the Treasurer to the form of the financial statements. But I think that the Federal Government, in allowing this matter to run this long, has certainly been derelict in its responsibilities. The same must be said of the New South Wales Government and the Victorian Government. 
This is a project that has handled vast sums of money. It has been a new type of operation in intergovernmental involvement. It has caused great public interest, comment and debate. If this report were the 1975-76 report, it would still be too late in being presented. Personally, I think we should now be looking at least for the 1976-77 report. I request the Minister in charge of this document to institute some inquiries to see when we can expect to obtain at least another two annual reports. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of representations I have received will the Minister ascertain whether Touchfones which are currently being heavily promoted have passed all reasonable operational trials? Are they proving to be more or less trouble free than the type of telephone they are designed to replace? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. In view of the continuing industrial problems in New Zealand's paper pulp industry, which appear to be no closer to resolution, and that country's request that Australian interests not extend Australian production, can the Minister advise whether the Government has considered the declining Australian stocks and whether its attitude is towards fostering the new Australian industry or increasing foreign dependence, which is currently being shown to be somewhat unreliable? 
I would like to be associated with this motion of condolence. I am of a different generation from  Sir Denham  's, but it was he who was my first real connection with the political world of northern Tasmania. I would be safe in saying that he as much as anybody influenced my involvement in the world of politics at a fairly early age. He received great respect from me and I think from all Tasmanians of every political persuasion. He was a real public man. He was a great mixer and was able to participate wherever this was required. Most of all, as  Senator Wright  said, he was very much the practical man. He was never one for going into a lot of fiddling about when there was a job to be done. He had the gift of clear vision. As we all know this in itself is not enough. He had a clear vision to which he was able to apply a very strong persuasion and a great deal of hard work. He believed in politics and the place of politics in democracy. He encouraged people to become involved. He would always go to a meeting which required political intervention and when he thought he could get other people to become involved. I know that he will be greatly missed by all Tasmanians. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Reports indicate that the Tasmanian Government has submitted a revised proposal for 'purely a squid feasibility study' for federal approval, on behalf of Japanese interests. Can the Minister advise whether such a proposal has been received and whether the application is in conformity with the guidelines laid down by the Minister in his Press releases of 1 9 January and 10 March this year? 
Following  Senator Chaney  's question yesterday on certain new look activities of the South Australian Premier, I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he is aware that in the absence of the Tasmanian Premier overseas the locum has declared a clamp down on Public Service employment that will cost 1,000 jobs and has stated that 'There needs to be restraint'? In view of the Opposition's statements in this Parliament and various statements made previously by the gentleman whom I have quoted, does the Government see this as another major breakthrough in the Australian Labor Party, as was noted yesterday by  Senator Chaney? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. The journal of the Department of Trade and Resources dated 12 May 1978 indicates an expansion of goods under Schedule B of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement to allow for furniture and furniture components to be sold without duty between the countries. The announcement in the journal states that the value of Australian furniture and components which may enter New Zealand is $1,300,000, but does not state the amount of New Zealand furniture which may be exported to Australia. Can the Minister ascertain what this figure is? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. In view of the Government's decision to become involved in the Interscan project, would the Minister or his colleague who represents the Minister for National Development in this place undertake that, in accordance with the 10-point plan laid down for special assistance for Tasmania following the Callaghan inquiry and as the project in question appears to fit ideally into  this  sort of arrangement, an investigation will  be  carried out to see whether the project can be established in Tasmania? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether there are any restrictions, either State or Federal, that would prevent the manufacture of an edible oil-butter spread by any manufacturer of either butter or margarine. Are there any restrictions on adding flavourings, such as garlic or bacon, to either original product or a mixture of both? Is there anything that would prevent the purchase, holding, blending or manufacture of either product by manufacturers whose current business is centred on one or the other of the main alternative products? 
I point out to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry that the last available milk production figures released to 28 February indicate a drop in production of 509 million litres on last year's figure. As this represents approximately  2Vi  per cent on the 4,070 million litres produced in the same period of the previous year, can the Minister advise whether this is in line with the reduction being sought, or what percentage level it is hoped to have the figure reach? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Reports attributed to the Canadian Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Eugene  Whelan, and appearing in the April edition of the Canadian publication  World of Beef  clearly show the extent and method of brucellosis eradication in that country. It has been shown that on 31 January there were only 826 herds under quarantine in Canada, of which 685 herds were in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether Australia's program is moving on target or is ahead or behind target? What consequences to our export market does he see if Canada or some other large trading country should secure freedom from this disease before Australia does? 
I would like to speak about the situation in the copper mining industry generally and at Queenstown in particular. Before I do so, I ask: What action would this Government or any other government take to secure an industry that engaged 700 employees directly or 7,000 employees directly and indirectly and supported their  families, and  an industry that would utilise an asset of $2,000m and produce overseas funds estimated to amount to nearly $ 1 billion? Would that government do as much for such an enterprise as the Commonwealth Government would to retain one such as exists at Mount Lyell? I have expressed previously my fondness of Queenstown, the area and its people. It is only 10 days since I was last in Queenstown, being there with  Mr Ray  Groom, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
In the debate that ensued in both Houses of the Parliament on the Tasmania Grant (Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd) Act 1977, the relevant information was missed. I will be supporting the application of  subsidy funds to  the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd for several reasons. I would do the same for any other enterprise that could demonstrate a situation similar to that demonstrated by the Mount Lyell company, even if its case were less conclusive than the case at Mount Lyell right now. Firstly, it is important to remember that the amount of money we are talking about is a subsidy. It is estimated at approximately $2.8m for the period which the Act is to cover. The money is repayable. From my investigations and from the information available to me, I believe that there is every reasonable prospect of repayment taking place. I would not support the subsidy proposition if I were not satisfied on that point initially. Copper mines world-wide have always suffered from fluctuating prices. An inspection of copper prices over the last 70 or 80 years will indicate the number of times they have fluctuated and the extent of those fluctuations. 
Copper mining companies throughout the world historically have accumulated reserves when prices were high and lived off those reserves when prices came down again. The Mount Lyell company, over many years, built up a very strong investment portfolio for exactly that purpose. In 1970 or thereabouts it was decided that there had to be radical changes to the mine. It was decided that these reserves should be partially liquidated to pay for the new developments. Of course, the company became caught up in the rapidly spiralling prices of the early and mid- 1 970s. The work not only cost considerably more- approximately double what was intended- but also completely robbed the company of the reserves that it had. It had expected to have a nice proportion of its reserves remaining. By April 1974, before the alterations and changes were put into production, the world copper price had risen to $2,240 per tonne. By the time the inquiry was completed in November of last year the world copper price was $1,030 per tonne. Since that time- in fact, over the last two months- the price of copper has risen to $1,200 per tonne- an increase of 26 per cent in two months. 
The high prices in 1 974 had totally disastrous effects on the world market in many ways. They encouraged mine operations that otherwise would have been uneconomical. They recapitalised many mines that had very little future. They created incentives to increase supplies or to use alternative materials to copper. The main alternative material was aluminium. The high prices created an over-supply situation because many countries tried to get as much copper as possible onto the market as quickly as possible. That brought about the inevitable bust or bottoming out of the cycle. As is usually the case following a major peak, there was a major trough. 
When the prices reached that trough, we had a vast stockpile situation and a vast mining situation. Now the stockpile has ceased to grow. The spiral situation appears to have reversed. The London Metals Exchange recently reported a drop of 100,000 tonnes in the copper stockpile. Japan has started buying copper again and is increasing its buying. According to the  Australian Miner  of 15 May 1978, Japan looks like having a shortfall of between 60,000 tonnes and 100,000 tonnes of copper this year at a time when it is increasing its annual consumption at a rate of 50,000 tonnes. Zaire recently was buying in copper to try to fill the orders it could not meet in regard to its contracts. The actual trading position in copper also has changed. During the over-supply period several countries were forced to market copper as their only avenue of obtaining international currency. They drove down the price of copper and, irrespective of cost, kept on mining. They had to obtain currency. But now the situation has changed. It is believed that 80 per cent of all the copper going onto the world market is being traded at a loss at the point of production. This situation simply cannot continue. I wish to refer to what is stated in the  Mining Journal  of 24 February 1978 under the heading 'Economic Truths for Zambia '. It states:   'The Finance Minister estimated the 1 977 budget deficit to be approximately 102 million . . . Some suppliers have been waiting for more than 12 months for payment -  . . Without financial assistance from the IMF, it is widely believed that Zambia will face major problems in meeting its external debt obligations during the current year. . . . Copper is the cornerstone of Zambia's economy and since independence it has provided more than 90 per cent of the country's foreign exchange earnings and about half of government revenue. The picuture has changed dramaticlly over the last two years. The government derived no direct revenue from mining in 1977 and the position is expected to be unchanged this year. Production costs at most of the mines are now exceeding the selling price of the metal, and the country's two major mining companies have been obliged to borrow in order to keep operating. 
Finally, the article states: 
Zambia's copper production in 1977 has been estimated at 650,000 tonnes, the lowest for ten years. 
That is the position in respect of Zambia. While I am dealing with that subject, the  Australian Miner  states: 
The threat of an exodus of white technicians within the next few months hangs over the mines of Zambia's copperbelt 
That statement was made three months ago. The likelihood of the exodus from Zambia's copperbelt is considerably greater today that it was three months ago. The pricing situation generally has been under discussion. The International Monetary Fund has informed Zambia and Zaire over the last several months that they cannot continue to finance while their pricing structures are as they are. Several countries have discussed the setting up of a proper pricing program for copper. There is nothing surer than that this will take place and that it will stabilise prices. To put this matter into perspective we have to consider that only approximately 20 per cent of the copper that is traded comes from what we might call the Western world. Eighty per cent comes from countries such as Zaire, Zambia, Chile, Peru and Papua New Guinea. The African situation at present clearly indicates just how tenuous is the grip that we have on this most important mineral. Zambia and Zaire alone put over 1 million tonnes of copper onto the world markets each year. The economic conditions which existed until the outbreak of hostilities in Zaire were so bad that it was quite questionable- now I believe that it is quite impossible- for us to presume that the skilled technicians who are required in this area will go back into these countries. It has been possible twice to get the Belgians back but I do not think that they will go back a third time. 
The  Australian Miner  stated that even though the mines are running at a low level of output they require 5,000 skilled expatriates to keep them going. At the moment they have only 4,000. That comment is three months old. I venture to suggest that the number now is probably 2,000. There is no way that the mines can keep in production without the skilled expatriates. This puts an entirely different complexion on the entire world copper market. The reverse substitution of copper with aluminium is now quite favourable and has been for some time. Copper has started to come back into use again. Until the last week or 10 days the prices of the two minerals have been almost identical and, as I say, the uses have come back into common parity again. 
I think at this stage the reorganisation and improved performance of Mt Lyell should be mentioned. Tremendous credit, the greatest possible credit, has to be given to the miners, the engineers and the management for the situation that exists there today. The improvements at the mine could not possibly have been achieved without the tremendous co-operation that has existed all round. In 1977 there were 1,100 employees at Mt Lyell. In the process of the reorganisation the figure was cut to 700. Ore production was cut by 24 per cent. It has been possible with better grades and higher recovery in spite of those big reductions to estimate a total copper recovery of an amount almost identical to that of last year. Approximately 1 7,500 tonnes of copper will be mined this year. In real terms, this has been achieved after reducing the break-even cost of mining by more than 20 per cent. That is a remarkable effort. 
Mt Lyell is anything but mined out. At present there are proven reserves in excess of 30 million tonnes. The mine has operated for 85 years and never before in its history has the mine been able to claim to have reserves of anything like that amount of ore. Unofficially, I would say that the proven reserves could be trebled from the areas in which the company is mining and where it is logical to assume that the ore grades will continue. The ore grade that the company has been able to mine has improved by 25 per cent, but the 30 million tonnes, on the present basis, represent 450,000 tonnes of copper. Besides what the mine has in actually proven copper, it has the best exploration areas on the whole of the west coast. It has large areas and the company is currently working with other companies in exploration essentially for lead, zinc, copper and tin. There is excellent potential for improved additional ore reserves on the mining lease that the company is currently working. But it has not gone further on this because it believes that 30 million tonnes is enough to have in reserve without going any further. 
We cannot entirely overlook the defence question and the strategic importance of copper. Mt Lyell represents a most significant reserve. The whole of the mining operation at Mt Lyell has undergone a complete change over the last five or six years from one of Australia's great open cut mines to a totally underground operation. Almost $50m has been spent in the reorganisation of the company. As I have said before, that is nearly double the amount the company expected to spend, but even so it was not enough to complete the job. It would still take probably $10m or $12m to complete the job, but because of the financial situation the continuation of that part of the re-organisation has had to be delayed. This has prevented the company from becoming as profitable as it would like to be. It will probably take at least another two years before it can work itself into a situation of increasing its profitability. 
The company has been operating underground for five or six years now and it has done this by completely retraining the miners who were traditionally from the open cut operations. It has been able to do so without importing an entirely new set of miners and this has enabled it to keep this tremendously loyal and very highly skilled group of miners together. During the last year or two the company has been trying new mining techniques and it has done very well. It has been a co-operative effort all the way through, and the company and the miners have worked together very closely. The new production techniques that the company is trying to bring into operation now have been specifically tailored to the conditions at Mount Lyell. It is expected that these improvements on which the company is currently working will further reduce the cost of production by $ 1 00 to $ 1 30 per tonne. It will take approximately two years before the company receives the full benefit of the improvements but that is its aim at this stage. Under the old system Mount Lyell was one of the most expensive copper mines in the world but now, with what the company has already achieved, the costs of mining are lower than the average for the United States of America. 
I have mentioned the tremendous loyalty, stability and the co-operation of the work force. The one thing that is not generally known is that the work force is so loyal, so stable and so cooperative that the last strike at the mine was in 1911. This is an industrial position which I believe is not widely known and which I would think would be the envy of every industrial operation in Australia. The labour turnover is terrifically low by any mining company standards. Sixty per cent of all the employees have lived in Queenstown for more than 20 years. Seventyone per cent of the work force has worked for the mine for over five years and 28 per cent has worked for the company for over 20 years. Some of the recent developments on which the company has been working involve the large blast hole system which is a new development in mining. It has been tried but it has not been put into operation fully. The next stage of development will involve this large blast hole system. From now on the ore is to be removed with trucks whereas in the past it was all taken up through the shaft. The company already owns plant and equipment to the value of $3. 5m which is ready to be installed but which is not yet working. 
So much for the mine itself. Queenstown is totally dependent on the Mount Lyell mine, but it is not a company town. The latest valuation figures for the town- July 1976- show that the municipality had a rated value of $24.7m. The roll showed that the mine offices and works were valued at $5. 3m and that staff housing and single men's quarters were valued at $3.4m, a total of $8. 7m. Private houses alone were valued at $1 1.2m, private commercial buildings at $3.1m and government buildings at $ 1.6m. This means that the mine represents less than a third of the municipality's total value. The mine certainly is the major business. The value of the properties certainly relates to the fortunes of the miners. If anything happened to the mine now the residents of Queenstown and the miners would lose far more than the mine itself. As a flow-on we must consider the tradesmen sub-contractors, the storekeepers, the service industries and so on, people who all live in Queenstown and live from the mine. 
There are such enterprises as the Emu Bay Railway Company which rails the ores to Burnie; the North West Acid Pty Ltd which produces acid from pyrites; and the Burnie Marine Board whose facility depends so heavily on Mount Lyell. The North West Acid company deserves special mention. It started only in 1970. It employs 110 people. It cost approximately $14m when it was constructed. It is estimated to be responsible for a foreign exchange saving of $40m. The Burnie Marine Board depends on Mount Lyell for 20 per cent of its total throughput which is approximately $325,000 a year. If anything happened to Mount Lyell at this stage these three enterprises would be in a very difficult situation. The 700 direct employees of the company represent less than 10 per cent of the people who depend on Mount Lyell for their living. This is not just direct employees but families as well. 
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations got the Industries Assistance Commission to inquire into the effects of the long-term assistance needs for the production of copper ores and concentrates. It covered many of the points very well and shows the difficulties of trying to replace a very steady and well entrenched community. I do not think that any of us would really wish to see changes made to the lifestyle of so many of these people. Some 80 per cent of all the tradesmen who are employed in the mine have lived in Queenstown for at least 20 years. These are Queenstown people. They are not professional miners who drift from mine to mine. Queenstown is a community, the community has to be maintained until profitability and prices make it completely secure again. It has been suggested that a care and maintenance operation could be implemented. This could not work. Once the mine closed it would be gone forever; so would the people who have made the mine what it is. 
I believe all the information I have provided to be totally correct and relevant. I have no reason to believe that continued economies cannot be achieved. New developments will achieve improved mining methods. I believe that the price trend, which, as I have said, was 684 on the London Metal Exchange on 12 May and 770 on 25 May, will continue to show improvement. While these items stabilise Mount Lyell 's position so the political situation in Africa, I believe, will continue to be less dependable and less stable. I will have no hesitation in recommending to everybody support of the Mount Lyell mine. The Mount Lyell reserves represent a national asset of at least half a billion dollars at today's prices. A truer assessment would be probably $ 1 billion. 
If Mount Lyell were to close mining would be finished forever and this huge asset would be gone. It would never be possible to capitalise a reopening of the mine. It is possible to keep it going only because of the capitalisation already there. The people are there to run it. Copper prices certainly are rising again. The signs are there. The Mount Lyell company has proved that it can adapt to the situation. I believe that the capitalisation of this $ 1 billion that we are talking about can flow through to all sections of the Australian economy again. The proposition involves people, trade and business and the Tasmanian community at large. 
Queenstown is a starter community. What the mine does flows down the line to many people on the way, not least of all the Government. The multiplier effect is very clearly demonstrable. This Government also attracts many advantages on the way and the advance at present envisaged is not a reflection of the place this enterprise occupies as far as returns to the Government are concerned. The mine has a future. I will be supporting the relevant Bill when it comes into this chamber. I think it is very important that these facts be widely known. There is no better example of what employer-employee relations can do or what a company which is really trying to achieve can achieve. I cannot give too much credit to  Mr Paterson  and the men of the Mount Lyell mine. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. On 1 1 May, I asked a question concerning details of reciprocal arrangements under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement on furniture and furniture components to be sold without duty between Australia and New Zealand. As the Press release I referred to had mentioned the value of the agreed sales into New Zealand, but not those into Australia, I sought this detail to allay my suspicions. 1 am now told that the figures are $1.3m for Australian sales and $2.5 m for New Zealand sales. Therefore, I ask this question: When the announcement was made, why was only the good news and not the bad news given? Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate extract from the Minister for Trade and Resources an undertaking not to release half-statements because, regardless of whether this is done deliberately and intentionally, such statements containing incomplete information are quite misleading. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the guerrilla warnings issued yesterday by the reelected secretary of the Australian Builders Labourers Federation? Can he advise whether the Government accepts the threats and promises made by this gentleman? How does the Government see such threats as affecting Australia's likely building program and the employment prospects of those who come under this gentleman 's jurisdiction? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. Has the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation any research projects underway concerning the use or testing of seaweed concentrates for either fertiliser or food additives? If not, has there been any request for such work to be done? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The likelihood of disease coming into Australia with the vastly increasing cut-flower imports is causing Australian nurserymen great concern. 
Can the Minister advise whether the Government recognises the extreme seriousness that lies in any potential animal or horticultural disease entering Australia in this way? Will proper quarantine inspection and fumigation procedures be implemented to reduce the risk? If so, when will they be implemented? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Construction been drawn to comments by visiting American architect Jack Robertson that there are serious deficiencies in the unrendered concrete and lightweight finish commercial buildings?  Mr Robertson  said: 
For the first time in history a whole generation of new buildings is going to be obsolete in 30 years because they're going to be falling to pieces. 
Will the Minister seek a report from his Department on the matter to see whether this comment applies in Australia and, if so, to what extent. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Science. Reports from  Mr Chua  of the meat research laboratory of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation indicate the extent of waste and losses arising from a lack of standardisation in meat cartons. He reports that in 43 meatworks he found 24 different cartons in use for bulk packs, 32 for primal cuts and 15 for chilled meats. What assistance or direction can be provided so that the disadvantages and costs that have been established can be minimised? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
Are there any restrictions on the use of seaweed, in any form, as food additives or as fertilizer? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
Is the seaweed resource around Australia available for utilisation and exploitation? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Corporation of Insurance Brokers of Australia has confirmed the existence of a list of up to 50 doubtful insurance companies which it says could collapse. If the existence even of the list is the case, it suggests that the Government's requirement on insurance companies is no longer adequate. Would the Minister have the Treasurer investigate this most disturbing allegation with a view to ensuring that companies in the insurance business in Australia shall be above suspicion and completely safe to the insuring public? If the Treasurer is satisfied as to the security of the insurance companies will he announce this to the public which at present is a little nervous? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
Will the Minister advise the total number of places available in each State and Territory as at the commencement of 1978 at (a) universities; and (b) colleges of advanced education. 
What are the total number of students enrolled in (a) universities; and (b) colleges of advanced education. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What was the budget allocation for the Tidbinbilla Nature Reserve for each financial year since and including 1974-75. 
What are the details of the projected development of the reserve. 
How many officers are employed on the reserve. 
What was the actual or estimated number of visitors to the reserve in each year since and including 1 975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) What regulations exist concerning the harvesting of seaweed from the shores of Australia? 
) Are such regulations under State jurisdiction; if so, are the provisions of all State laws relating to harvesting seaweed similar? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industy, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
Has the Department of Primary Industry experimented with, or verified trials of, seaweed or seaweed products in Australia? 
Has it received any requests to do so? 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) What information does the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization have on trials, carried out by universities or similar institutions, State authorities, companies or individuals in Australia, with seaweed extracts or products in (a) fertilisers, and (b) food additives. 
Is any of the data accepted and approved by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
1 ) Does the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization recognise seaweed as a resource available for utilisation. 
Under what circumstances would the Organization engage in research or trials on the use of seaweed as food additives or fertilisers. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) Has the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization experimented with, or verified other trials of, seaweed in Australia. 
) Has it received any requests to do so. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 8 June 1 978: 
1 ) Are the results of trials on the use of seaweed overseas, such as the work done in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics which has indicated substantial yield increases in selective cropping, accepted and recognised by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization. 
What information does the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization have on such work and use. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 9 June 1 978: 
1 ) Did the recommendations and resolutions of the 1 6th meeting of the Australian Forestry Council include advice that a research worker was to be sent to California for two years to assist in the prevention of disease in vulnerable Australian pine plantations. 
Has an officer been appointed, is he now in California, and has he yet been able to provide any information of value. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) Have any approaches been made from New Zealand concerning the export of cattle embryos to Australia. 
Are there any obstacles which would prevent this trade being undertaken. 
Firstly, may I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy President,  on your election to the position which you now hold. I wish you every success in that position. I support the Fisheries Amendment Bill 1978 and the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Amendment Bill 1978 which are under consideration. I will be as brief as I can in my remarks. I agree with a great deal of what the two previous speakers have said. Firstly, Australia is not a fish rich country. We do not have any of the major natural facilities that go to make good fishing. There is no Gulf Stream, no Dogger Bank, no upswelling currents, no major estuary feedings and so on. The whole history of Australian fishing regrettably is one that shows a whole series of ups and downs. It is a history of over-fishings and recoveries. I see the 200-mile limit about which we are now talking more from the point of view of what it imposes upon Australia in regard to responsibilities than the benefits that it provides. I see that it produces responsibilities both to harvest and to replenish. I see that there is a duty to safeguard the Australian fishermen. There is a duty to people from other countries who depend on fish for protein. 
On looking back over the history of the industry, I would say that there has never been a fishing industry but that there has been a collection of small fishing industries of all sorts. I think that the statistics ought to go into this debate in as brief a way as possible. At this juncture there are approximately 9,000 commercial fishing boats, approximately 18,000 fishermen, approximately $250m invested in the boats, and approximately 150 shore-based processing plants. The annual catch is worth approximately $200m. What is important is that over the last 10 years the growth rate has been 1 1 per cent a year, and that represents double the growth rate in any other rural industry. 
We are getting close to facing the world-wide problem, however, of having too many boats chasing too few fish. In this regard, any sudden surge of either Australian based or joint venture fishing may not be in the best interests of the industry. I am not against joint ventures. In fact, I support them if they are efficiently based and in the long term interests of the Australian industry. I think what is of greater importance is the better utilisation of existing resources. If we look at the world position in regard to fish we find that the two great shortages in the world are, firstly, cheap basic fish such as we in Australia do not use ourselves and, secondly, gourmet fish such as prawns, lobsters, abalone and so on. 
Australia's future depends very heavily on expanding the two export classes or on some expansion of our local trade by way of import substitution. Much has been said in reports of the last year or two about import substitution. I believe that whilst some substitution is possible, a considerable amount is not. I think that at all times we need to determine three things: Can we do it; will we do it; and is it going to pay if we do it? At present all sorts of discussions are going on about the fact that there are new boats galore. New proposals are current and, in many cases, I fear for them because I believe that they are being based far more on unexplored expectation than in accordance with the facts as we know them. 
We go into this new phase of Australian fishing with something like 150 shore-based plants and approximately 150 licensed processing boats. This clearly indicates that the processing sector is vastly over-capitalised at this stage and needs to be rationalised by the industry. I do not see that the Government can do so except by financing that rationalisation or by assisting with advice. I say also that, whilst the industry is one of the most individualistic industries, in the processing sector many of the fishermen are controlled or restricted in such a way that some changes may be needed. 
The previous  speaker, Senator Walsh,  talked of research. The latest figures that I have been able to obtain show that currently expenditure on research is $6m a year, or 3 per cent of the value of the total catch. In many industries 3 per cent of total income would be a lot of money. But the fishing industry as it is now requires more than that really to get the industry on to a rationalised basis. Historically fishing has been the step-child of primary industry. I have often wondered whether it should be dealt with more appropriately through our Department of Primary Industry or through the Department of National Resources. From going around Australia and talking to the fishermen in various places I have learned that there is a great appreciation that there is a need for change at all levels. We are finding in particular that what are often referred to as the cut lunch fishermen have to change and to try harder if they are to retain their positions. 
Fishing has been a small boat industry. This is changing. The latest figures that I have been able to obtain show that in 1975-76 of approximately 9,000 boats that were licensed for fishing 4,388 were under six metres; 3,007 were under 1 1 metres; 1,373 were under 17 metres; and only 151 were between 18 and 20 metres and only 191 were over 20 metres. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in chapter 4 of its report dealt with the fishing implications of territorial boundaries. I do not wish to quote from the report but I commend it as being well worth reading to anyone who is interested in the matter. It shows the great contribution that has been made. 
As usual, I would like to make one or two references to Tasmania. Fishing is an important industry for Tasmania. In 1976-77 Tasmania caught approximately $8.5m worth of fish. By 1977-78 the figure was $12m and represented 6 per cent of the Australian total. Tasmania has several fishing ports and approximately 25 processing plants. But, more importantly, it services the large area of southern waters. It is also the base for all the Japanese southern tuna fishing boats and is also now the headquarters of the Japanese squid research area. Ultimately it will also be the base for krill exploitation on the southern shelves. Tasmania is much different geographically from the rest of Australia. I refer to the  Australian Year Book  which shows that while Tasmania has a land area of 67,800 square kilometres or 0.88 per cent ofthe Australian land mass, it has 8 per cent of the coastline. Also, while it has 67,800 square kilometres of land, the extension to the 200-mile or 320-kilometre territorial waters would add 400,000 square kilometres of water- approximately six times the land area. As in all States, the declaration of the extended limit will have little effect on the great majority of Tasmanian fishermen but collectively and to the industry as a whole it will be very important. I believe that the important section of the Fisheries Amendment Bill is clause 6- which  Senator Walsh  mentioned- which will become new section 5B of the amended Act. It states: 
In the administration of this Act, the Minister shall have regard to the objectives of- (a) ensuring, through proper conservation and management measures, that the living resources of the Australian fishing zone are not endangered by over-exploitation; and (b) achieving the optimum utilisation ofthe living resources ofthe Australian fishing zone. 
I believe that is important and the strength of the legislation. It will take a lot of research really to determine what are these resources and what is necessary. At this stage it is not possible to consider writing in to the legislation aspects that we know absolutely nothing about. It will take a lot from the industry to be able to insert those provisions. Much more research and more funds from both the industry and the Government will be required to make the objectives of clause 6 obtainable. I do not consider that just money for more boats is what is at question at present; I believe that money spent on investigation into the type and construction of boats, fishing methods and equipment, processing and merchandising, probably would be far better spent than money spent on just more boats. I support the Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, without notice, on 8 May 1978: 
In view of representations I have received will the Minister ascertain whether touchfones which are currently being heavily promoted have passed all reasonable operational trials? Are they proving to be more or less trouble free than the type of telephone they are designed to replace? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. The Australian Trade Commission in Christchurch has reported that two cheddar cheese plants in New Zealand are being converted to produce 2,000 tonnes of parmesan and 1,500 tonnes of edam a year respectively. As these two cheeses are not covered under the exclusions of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, has the Government taken into account the likelihood of Australia being seen as the best market for these extra cheeses? Will the Minister ensure that the Industries Assistance Commission, which is inquiring into imported cheese, is made aware of the situation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) What quantities of seaweed products were imported into Australia in each year from 1973 to 1977, and what was their value. 
What were these products. 
Could these varieties of seaweed products have been made from seaweed obtainable in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
1 ) How many firms harvest and/or export seaweed or seaweed products from Australia. 
What quantities were exported in each year from 1973 to 1 977, and what was their value. 
I find it a pleasure to be involved in the discussion of this matter of public importance. But, as a matter of public importance, I find that it is little more than an item of absolute rubbish. To say that this discussion is a matter of public importance at this stage is just so totally incorrect. I would say that, for the first time since coming into this chamber  Vh  years ago, I really feel that the housing industry looks like being able to start to get somewhere. I think the very question of bringing up this matter at this time reflects an absolutely abysmal lack of understanding of what the position really is and how the housing industry really operates. 
I have heard the housing industry confused with various aspects of the construction industry with which it has absolutely no connection. I am quite amazed as to how we can talk about the two elements at once. The housing industry is not buoyant. But how great and how real is this decline that we are talking about? We have to consider what the figures are down from. Are we talking about the figures coming down from a boom peak that was artificially created, or are we talking about their being slightly less than what would be a reasonable anticipated requirement at this time? The big peak of 1972-74 collapsed in 1975-76 but it came again strongly, by artificial means, in 1976-77. This caused an oversupply situation and, therefore, obviously a decline in the following year. I am sorry if other speakers on this matter who are not in the chamber at the moment could say that there was no relevance in discussing what happened in previous years with what the problem is now. That is the whole story of the housing industry. It is very much a long-term business. It takes a long time to see what is going to happen. The actions that are taken now will last for years. I think we have to look back a little further to see the sorts of figures with which we should be dealing. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  figures for the last 1 2 years, that is from 1 966-67, setting out the number of dwellings completed. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197808236_28_1.jpg"></graphic>

There were all sorts of factors which went towards the boom period of 1972-73 and 1973-74. This was the time when the equal pay question arose. This was the time when we had high juvenile rates of pay and when there was a general change in life styles. 
People were working shorter hours. They enjoyed far greater affluence than they had ever enjoyed before. There was increased mobility and small families. There were consumer preferences that had never been seen before in many locations. There were also the questions of repairs and maintenance really coming into their own. All those factors created a situation which tended to pass over a little bit later. 
Historically, of course, Australia has always had a very high rate of home ownership. In the 1970s the rate of occupancy per house tended to decline also so that we had a very high rate of building and a very low level of occupancy. This had a blotting paper effect which many people are not able to understand. We went through a patch when a tremendous number of people owned second houses. Many of these second houses, which even now I believe represent 20 per cent to 25 per cent of the total housing in Australia, are currently unoccupied. Not only did that happen but also many juveniles left home and rented flats. Some of them stayed there, some went back home. We had this fluctuating situation. We found that in many cases the second home was then either sold or let. The figure which was taken by people who kept statistics to be a firm trend figure was a totally artificial figure which could never have lasted. Even the Indicative Planning Council, for which I have a lot of regard, I think, made some fundamental errors in its early days with regard to the figures from which it started to work. 
There has not been a massive decline to the extent that has been intimated. We are over the peak. The figures are less than they should be but are not by any means at the disaster level. As a result of the huge rises in costs flats turned out to be unprofitable. Tenants could not pay the rents. Owners changed their flats to stratum titles. All this cushioned what otherwise would have been the normal market. We have to consider that we went through a two-year period from 1973-74 to 1975-76 when the public sector exerted a tremendous influence on the market then and for the future. Not only did this frighten a great many private builders but also it changed the whole swing at the time. In 1973-74 138,612 private dwellings and 11,416 government houses were built. By 1975-76, to compensate for the government figure going up by nearly double, the private sector figure contracted to 19,726 houses. This created quite a change. It also padded the market artificially at a time when it would have been better to let it go a little. Only now with the new States housing grants are we in a position to try to retrieve the situation in some way. 
The States ignored their basic responsibilities. The Federal and State departments blossomed, fattened and forgot what their job was, namely, the supply of welfare housing for the people who needed it. At the last count I made of the various avenues of assistance I found that there are 1 8 different ways in which this Federal Government provides money for housing of one sort or another. They are all expensive. I suggest that at least 10 of them could be disbanded and disposed of, usually by putting them into the States grants system and leaving the States to fund them. Canberra cannot and will never be able to do it all, and I would not want it to. Canberra 's job is to create the climate and set the scene, and it is up to the States to implement the schemes and see that they get the best value. I have found that the States are deliberately jeopardising their opportunities by empire building. They too want the biggest and best department they can possibly get, and they get very touchy about the situation too. The Federal Government's responsibility is to ensure that we get the best use of housing money, and I am a long way from being satisfied that we are getting that in either the private or public sectors. 
Recently I suggested to one of the State housing departments that there were four ways in which it could improve the housing situation, and all I got was a tirade of abuse from a Minister who knows very little about the situation. The four methods I proposed were, firstly, that all public sector rental housing should be based on market oriented rentals with means tests wherever they are desirable; secondly, we should produce inducements, if necessary, and encouragements at least for all occupants to consider purchasing their houses; thirdly, we should inject more money into the terminating building societies from the home builders' account so that 50 per cent more houses are built with the same amount of money; and, fourthly, we should dispose into the public sector of some of the very extensive land bank that seems to have accumulated and convert it to housing. All those things would assist in providing housing. I get a bit sick of people whingeing about the shortage when they will do nothing about it themselves. I do not want to penalise by any means people who are waiting for housing, but I think we may have to see what we can do about bringing some of the State departments into line if they refuse to co-operate. 
This Government already provides home savings grants to assist with the deposit gap. It also provides the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation to insure up to 100 per cent of value, if purchasers so wish. The structure for doing these things is there, and we have to consider why it is not operating as we would like it to operate. The reasons are twofold: Sometimes there are shortages of money, and sometimes people are unable to pay the price. For years and years people worked for a few years to save the deposit to buy a house. Over the last few years the faster they saved the further they got behind. Inflation was leaving them behind all the time. They were never going to get into a position to buy a house. We have to try to reverse this trend, which is one of the things that this Budget will achieve. Rental accommodation is still short because of the cost of building and because people are unable to pay the rents involved. 
I believe that it is possible to get more money into the housing industry, and I have made submissions to the relevant sources in the hope that we will be able to achieve some changes. We have to consider the sort of figure at which we are looking. What do we expect this mystical figure of the number of new houses built per year to be? That seems to be the basis on which we operate, although I cannot agree that this is the only item which we should consider. It would appear to me that a figure of about 125,000 to 130,000 is far more realistic than the figures I heard earlier. I would not wish us under any circumstances to try to build 150,000 houses this year. If we tried we would add 20 per cent to the price of every house and would create the greatest shortage of labour and materials we ever had. Whatever increase there is to be will have to take place gently and steadily. In many places in Australia it is impossible now to obtain skilled tradesmen for many jobs. I do not think that we are having a building depression as much as we are having a non-realised over-anticipation. I think that there is a lot of difference between those two situations and that we should recognise that there is a difference. None of us want to see a boom with all the problems we had previously. 
I would like to see a word of real praise given to the industry at this stage. The industry is very efficient. It has done a very valuable job over a long period. It is coping with changes far better than most other industries that are subject to the same sorts of changes which historically affect them. It is also coping with the changes at least as well if not better than Federal, State and local governments. The industry has to cope with absolutely ridiculous and conflicting standards all over the place. It is suffering from a general overspecification which is increasing costs. It is having all sorts of trouble with zoning and planning which makes for disastrous delays and an increase in costs. Its costs are very well controlled, h has shown considerable development over the last few years. It has shown a great power for innovation and resourcefulness. There is a big trend to new materials and methods. By the same token, never again will housing require the same amount of labour per house as has been the case in the past. Whole trades have been eliminated in the changes in the industry in the last few years in an effort to keep viable. Of course, the industry's weakness is the same as that of many other industries in that it is unable to keep abreast of the full market forces. This has created problems such as the one we are nearly out of, but it will not prevent it happening again. 
In conclusion, I say that the housing industry will revive. Inflation is getting back to the levels at which we left it in 1972. Interest rates will return to those levels also. It should not be forgotten that a one per cent reduction in interest rates represents a $5,000 reduction in the payback price of a house. The figures that I have differ substantially from those that have been cited in the debate. They show that the gross fixed capital expenditure on private dwellings rose to $747m in the June quarter of 1978, a rise of 7.5 per cent compared with the revised March quarter figure. Dwelling commencements increased by 10 per cent in the June quarter in 1 978. The number of private dwellings commenced rose by 9 per cent and Government building commencements rose by 24 per cent. Indeed, commencements rose in all States except Western Australia. The greatest increases were in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. In addition, the prices of new contract homes increased by only six per cent in 1977-78 and the wholesale price of building materials rose by only 5.8 per cent. Why then are people talking about a housing depression? We are now out of trouble and well on the road to recovery. I commend the policy of the Government at this stage and support what it is doing for the people of Australia in housing. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Science. With the intended ban on the import of imperial measuring devices to take effect on 1 October, does the Minister propose to include in regulations prohibiting these imports an exemption for those Australian manufacturers engaged in the production of items manufactured to imperial system specifications for export to those countries not using the metric system? 
I support the Bill. In general terms I agree with most of the points made by  Senator Wriedt.  I think there is very little difference between both sides of the House on most points of view. I would even agree with some of the inconsistencies he outlined. I believe that the main difference is really a question of degree and that we are not likely to solve that difference in the course of debate. I think that both sides see the function of this organisation slightly differently and, I guess, always will. I will say that the Bill before the House is certainly likely to be changed in one way or another once the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation has been put into action and once we have an opportunity to see how it works. I could not possibly agree with  Senator Coleman  that it is a matter of setting one side against the other. It is clearly a matter of bringing the two sides- if they are sides- together. The whole purpose of the Bill is to try to get some sort of arrangement whereby use can be made of both sides for the benefit of all. 
I see this legislation as an important advance in government attitude and very much part of the Government's determination to try to assist industry and trade. It follows the main policy thrust of the Government to generate the productive aspects of our economy. I have spoken with many manufacturers and sellers of services, and there is now much interest in export over and above what there has been in the past. There are new export associations being set up in the various States of Australia. In fact, a new export association has just been set up in my own State. There is a considerable volume of work and goods to be supplied, particularly in the developing part of the world. By international standards Australian industry is very small, and there is a definite need for the consortium approach. I certainly agree that we must have some mechanism whereby firms can get together for the good of all to try to get a greater share of this type of work for Australia. 
I read in last year's April edition of  Manufacturing News  a list of the type of work that was available at that time. I think it is interesting to see the types of jobs that were mentioned. Such projects included the design and construction of a trade centre at Dubai, $104m; housing construction in Iran, $265m; telecommunications in Iran, $403m; port extensions at Bandar Abbas in Iran, $806m; a fertiliser plant in Iraq, $464m; an aluminium smelter, $500m; a cement plant, $39m; and a liquified petroleum gas plant, $220m. These are the types and size of jobs which are obviously far beyond the means of most Australian firms to carry out on their own. In the November 1976 edition of the journal Overseas Trading published by the Department of Overseas Trade the point was made that the imports of goods and services by Middle East countries in the five years 1976 to 1980 was expected to amount to $294,000m, which is equivalent to more than three times the level of exports from the United States of America in 1974. 
It is huge business in every respect. We have to try to make sure that we eliminate the obstacles that would prevent a certain amount of it from coming our way. It has been mentioned that the areas that are probably best served are in the field of engineering and services generally. As a result, at all stages, the Heavy Industry Manufacturers Association, has been very strong in its support for such an enterprise as would allow Australian companies to participate in overseas projects. Already many Australian companies providing goods and services and civil engineering companies are involved. It has to be the aim of us all to see that those companies that are involved get more involved and that those companies that are not involved are able to become involved if that is in any way possible. In the 12 May edition of  Overseas Trading  the matter is put into reasonable perspective when it is stated: 
International trade in technology is a major growth industry. With world trade in technology estimated to be growing at some four times the rate of international commodity trade . . . 
Trade in technology is estimated to be growing at four times the rate of commodity trade. This shows that emphasis needs to be placed on the sale of technology and we have to fit in as best we can. As  Senator Sheil  said, many countries already have an operation of the type proposed for the Corporation. We should certainly participate as well. I would not want to see the Corporation develop into another government department; I would like to see it kept in the situation where the Government can assist and not dominate. I would oppose any proposition that got away from that idea until we have at least had a chance to see whether the intention of the legislation can be achieved. 
I conclude by giving six points that summarise the intention of this legislation. The functions of the Corporation will be: To act on requests from private industry to provide support for Australian interests bidding for overseas projects; to provide a range of technical and advisory services on a fee-for-service basis; to be able to call on specialists within the Commonwealth Government on a case-by-case basis; to restrict its activities solely to overseas projects; not to compete against competent Australian firms interested in particular projects; and to be responsible to a board of directors drawn principally from the private sector. I have pleasure in supporting the legislation. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. My attention has been drawn to a report in the  Australian  of 22 June regarding the import and sale for human consumption of the substance calcium pangamate or B 15, as it is also known. Will the Minister advise whether the Department of Health has approved the importation and use of this substance for human therapeutic treatment or whether these well publicised sales are being made illegally? 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry been approached by the Tasmanian Government concerning the declaration by Tasmania that it has an advanced disease free status relating to cattle? Has the Minister or his Department received representations on the matter? Does the evidence and information available indicate that such a declaration would be reasonable, and are there any reasons why such a declaration should not receive full support from this Government and the animal health authorities? Is the way now open for Tasmania to make this declaration, having in mind the benefits this could give to Tasmanian breeders of cattle free from the vast majority of diseases known either Australia-wide or world-wide? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, concerns the state of the housing market. Can the Minister advise the Senate of the date of the most recent land sale held in Canberra, the number of blocks sold, how the prices obtained equated with the reserve prices, whether the speculative builders of Canberra were included amongst those who bought the land and, if so, give an estimate of the proportion of land going to those builders? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. The head of the Victorian arson squad, Senior Sergeant John Coffey, supported by the Australian Fire Protection Association and the Insurance Council of Australia, has highlighted the huge losses through suspicious fires. As these losses are reported to involve up to 1,000 deaths a year and to cost an estimated $5,000m this year, the costs to the insuring public are still soaring. Can the Minister ascertain the extent of Federal or State funding going into arson research and give details of any projects that are currently under investigation on ways of minimising the apparent trend towards an increase in losses of life and money through arson? 
-On behalf of  Senator Lewis  I present the following petition from 66 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That the provision of payments for abortion through items of the Medical Benefits Schedule is an unacceptable endorsement of abortion which has now reached the level of a national tragedy with at least 60,000 unborn babies being killed in 1977. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will so amend the Medical Benefits Schedule as to preclude the payment of any benefit for abortion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of the reported successful operation of the technical help to exporters scheme available to New Zealand exporters, which allows exporters to tap research and advisory services in more than 80 countries? Can the Minister advise or ascertain whether the Department of Trade and Resources has investigated the scheme and, if so, whether such a scheme is seen to have advantages for Australian exporters and potential exporters? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As the differences between the Australian Fishing Industry Council and the Association of Port and Marine Authorities are still receiving publicity, will the Minister ascertain what progress is being achieved in resolving these differences? Who is responsible for the job of resolving the problems and when can a decision be expected? 
-The Budget is designed to provide a recovery very much through the productive sector. We only have to look not only in Australia but also overseas to see the results of the different actions that have been taken by different governments. I think it is fair to say that around the world today the big spenders are in big trouble while the hard workers are managing to achieve higher prosperity. Australia, therefore, has to decide whether it will spend and be in trouble or work and be prosperous. I very strongly support the comments made yesterday by  Senator Hamer.  I only regret, as it turned out, that the honourable senator spoke before I did because I had almost identical words to say on most of the subjects he raised. I thought that the honourable senator covered those subjects very well. 
I am particularly concerned about the area of juvenile employment which was also referred to by the honourable senator. Industry generally throughout Australia is now short of juvenile workers. There is quite a deal of work substitution, of changes in jobs within industry, but the changes are not taking place in the juvenile area. They are taking place in the senior area, and quite often out of the juvenile area and into the senior area. I have spoken to many employers about this matter. I have also spoken to many employed juniors as well as quite a number of unemployed j juniors 
Please do not get me wrong- I have no objection to juveniles earning high rates of pay. I think it is very good for them that they do. But we all have to admit, very openly and very frankly, that high rates for juvenile pay react against employment. Some years ago juniors entered the work force at 15 or 16 years of age which was then the school leaving age. Now, with less jobs available, the tendency is for juveniles to stay at school longer. They are entering the employment market at 17 or 1 8 years of age and in some cases 19 or even 20 years of age. These juveniles have to compete for jobs against senior males or senior females who are also seeking employment. I had a call only a couple of weeks ago from a gentleman who told me that he had sought a junior to do very basic menial tasks. The employment service offered him a lad, aged 17 years, who had left school the day before and for whom the award wage was $ 180.40. This was the wage the employer would have had to pay this lad to perform basic menial work. Of course, the boy did not get the job. It is also interesting to note that the award wage for a shop assistant aged 18 years is now $94.70; for an employee aged 18 years in a vegetable processing factory it is between $137 a week and $147 a week, depending on the actual jobs done; for a bank officer aged 18 years it is now from $1 12 a week to $1 15 a week. Employers have to consider the economics of putting on juveniles at these very high rates. 
I believe that the whole system has to be rethought by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other bodies. Juniors have to be economic to be employable. I find it quite inhumane that juniors should be outside the employment sphere. I have spoken to many juniors, some who have work and others who do not, and even those in work generally concede that they are receiving higher wages than can be justified. A very great section of industry hangs on the decision that will have to be made in relation to junior employees. This decision will affect the building, clothing and general manufacturing industries as well as business and retailing. 
Generally the industry signs are up. It is quite important to follow the trend that has been publicised in the Press in the last month or two. Even today an article headed 'Manufacturers expect sales, capacity increases' appeared in the  Australian Financial Review.  The article stated: 
. the overall level of sales in constant prices increased by 1 2 per cent over the three months. 
The article further stated: 
The level of orders increased by some 13 per cent in the June quarter . . . 
Under no circumstances can anyone say that that is stagnation- it is a very good solid increase. I recently had the opportunity to go through 14 factories in the area in which I live and 1 3 out of the 14 factories advised that their sales for the period had been higher; 13 out of the 14 advised that they were employing more staff than they had employed last year; and 13 out of the 14 also said that they expected further improvement in employment levels before June of next year. An article headed 'Overtime up despite gloom in the job market' which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 1 September stated: 
While job figures point to a worsening in the labour market, overtime levels have increased for the third consecutive month. 
This again is very much one of the straws in the wind. I was interested in the 'BHP News Review' of July 1978 in which  Sir James  McNeill said that the competitiveness of many Australian industries had greatly improved. And so it goes on. AH of these statements are the result of one thing and one thing only- namely, our ability to control the level of inflation in Australia compared with the level of inflation in other trading countries. People such as clothing manufacturers recently have been able to export Australian clothing to countries like Japan. Australian timber is being sold in Europe. Australian manufacturers can sell electronic equipment in Japan and Hong Kong. They are able to do this because we are able to keep our level of inflation on a more reasonable basis than the countries with which we are now dealing. Each day we can hold our inflation in check the more competitive we can become and the more our chances of profitability, employment and everything else will improve. We have to extend our technology. There is no way in which we can avoid technological advances. I do not think anybody in Australia in their right mind would suggest that we should withhold technological advances. We will require a higher level of technology as we compete more on world markets. 
I would like to speak for a moment or two about the building industry. First of all I would like to refer to the commercial building sector in which changes just simply will have to be made. The  Australian  newspaper of 28 June highlighted this problem in an article which was headed: 'High rise rows cost $533m'. The article stated: 
Disputes on building projects in capital cities last year caused delays costing $533m. 
The article pointed out: 
The secretary of the National Industrial Executive of the Building and Construction Industry,  Mr David  Diprose . . . said, industrial disputes caused a 22 per cent loss of available working time between January 1975 and March 1977. 
From March to June 1977, 35 per cent of available time was lost through industrial action and from July to August 1977, 50 percent. 
The article went on to state: 
Loss of wages for all construction workers in 1977 totalled $8.2m, but on one job alone -Collins Place- AMP and ANZ lost $ 10m. 
There is no way that an industry can be run on the basis of these sorts of costs, unknowns and unnecessary losses. There are no winners in this sort of jungle warfare. There is no way that the building industry can continue with these sorts of problems. People will not continue to erect buildings and there will not be a building industry if we continue on this son of basis. 
On the other hand, the housing industry is preparing for some improvement. We are just starting to get out of the complicated maze of artificial factors which were induced in the house building industry in the early pan of the 1970s. This created quite an artificial base. I believe that all levels of the industry and all the people who commented on it worked on a totally artificial grounding. Most of this came about through population predictions. I mention in particular the Borrie reports. I have no complaints about the figures that were produced by Professor Borrie, but it must be admitted that these figures have been revised on at least two occasions. For instance, the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry used all the Borrie figures in its predictions. The Council has now had to revise its estimates. The building industry, the components industries and other industries also used the figures arrived at by either Professor Borrie or the Indicative Planning Council for the Housing Industry. I think that we have all come to realise that if we use figures which are shown to be somewhat questionable, we are all working on a false premise. 
The industry itself still has to revise the potentials that are offering. Interest rates on housing loans are still far too high. Of course, the falling inflation rate will reduce interest rates. The sheer weight of money will dictate that the price of money comes down. I do not think that there is any shortage of housing money at present. The shortage is in the ability of borrowers to meet the repayments that go with high interest rates. I do not think that there will be any colossal upsurge in the building industry, but I think that there will be an improvement in the position. We have only to look at the sales of blocks of land in the Australian Capital Territory at the last land sale to realise the position. I asked a question on this matter a week or so ago. I was most impressed by the success of the last sale. There have been comments by  Mr Ron  Cameron of the Australian Bankers Association in respect of lending by banks. Comments also have been made by the Secretary of the Real Estate Institute of Australia on the level of increase in the sales of secondhand houses. All of these things happen before increased building activity commences. Thousands of houses are planned, approved and ready to be built around Australia. I believe that a small reduction in interest rates now will ensure that more of those homes will be commenced. I hope that all government instrumentalitiesFederal, State and local- will study and learn something from the housing costs inquiry and start to do things which will reduce much of the unnecessary and most unpleasant costs involved in housing. 
We are facing a situation in the housing industry in which the estimates of a sustainable building quota vary from as low as fewer than 100,000 homes a year to as many as 158,000 homes a year. With a variation, on the best available estimates, of about 50 per cent, it is extremely difficult for the industry and all those people associated with it to be able to make reliable estimates of where the industry is going. Let us consider in particular the position of the timber industry. How can the timber industry cope with a variation of 50 per cent in its likely housing market? A true, reasonable assessment of what is likely to happen simply must be produced. This position applies not only in respect of timber but also in respect of all other materials. It also affects the finance market and the development market. Every section of the industry must know the exact position. 
I shall make a couple of comments now about fishing. I suppose that the easiest way to summarise the present position in respect of fishing in Australia is to say that it is a real can of worms. The reason for this is that very little information is available about the fishing industry, which leaves room for too much speculation. We have only to look at the history of commercial fishing in Australian waters, particularly for fin fish, to see the extent of the ups and downs that have occurred. This is most unfortunate. I am sure that these fluctuations will continue in the years to come, but it is up to all of us to see that we ease them as much as possible. As we all know, many proposals are currently under consideration. Some are good, some are bad and some are very bad. We must make sure that the Australian content in all these proposals is as high as we can get it and that there will be residue value for the Australian industry. 
Recently  Senator Sim  spoke at some length about a Taiwanese venture. We should certainly encourage that sort of enterprise. I do not think that we want any of these huge ships exploiting fishing in Australian waters, but we must look at what arrangement will, provide some future for the industry for many years. I see fishing as being a good Australian industry with a great future but before it develops properly it needs a lot of research. It will need to be handled with great caution. Also, it will need assistance in a variety of ways. Many grey areas still require a great deal of work. Today I raised just one of these areas, namely, the differences between various influences in the fishing industry. We will not be able to overcome them quickly. However, we must overcome them if we are to have the industry settled down and knowing where it is going. 
It would be remiss of me if I did not make a few remarks about Tasmania. Today  Senator Wriedt  raised the question of the Antarctic base to be constructed in Tasmania. All Tasmanians welcome the transfer of this base to Tasmania and the expenditure of Sim this year to get the construction under way. In today's Press it was announced that work on the Australian Maritime College has reached the design stage. This matter has been well discussed in this chamber. An amount of $940,000 has been allocated for recurrent expenses in the first year plus $3.3 15m for various capital expenses, including the provision of training vessels and the commencement of the shore facilities. Also of benefit to the State will be the provision of an amount of $6m towards the construction of the Launceston General Hospital. This work is being financed on a fifty-fifty basis with the Tasmanian Government. Up to $3. 8m is to be made available to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd to keep the district of Queenstown afloat for another 2 1 months. This is a tremendous item of expenditure for Tasmania and all Tasmanians certainly appreciate the fact that this money has been made available. Many other items of expenditure for Tasmania are contained in the Budget, including an appropriation of $136,000 for forestry. 
Above all, the really big thing for Tasmania in the last few years has been the freight equalisation scheme, without which Tasmania and many Tasmanian industries would have been in terrible trouble by now. I do not know where Tasmania and most of her manufacturing industries would have been had it not been for the freight equalisation scheme. Everything from the manufacture of paper to the production of fish, vegetables, meat and butter are affected by freight costs. These Tasmanian industries have been kept afloat through the advantages that go with freight equalisation. 
The Tasmanian Government, as is its right, determines its own priorities as to what money it raises and how it spends it. Those of us who have an interest in industry were a little disappointed that this year only $300,000 was made available for industry development. A new super Industrial Development and Trade Directorate has been set up, but with a budget of only $300,000 its functions will be somewhat limited compared with the more generous contributions that are made to industrial development and industry generally in other States. In that regard, South Australia has come up with a very good industrial plan that I think certainly will pay off there. 
In regard to housing, although it is the Tasmanian Government's own decision, I regret that it has not used the Commonwealth funding to the best advantage. I do not believe that the proposals that have come forward indicate that the Tasmanian Government is going to get anything like as much value from the States Grants Act as it was designed to produce. I hope that the Tasmanian Government will reconsider some of these decisions as the year progresses to see whether it can get better value for its money. There has been quite a bit of improvement in regard to the land. All the things the land produces that we sell overseas are now more competitive and costs have stabilised. Those are the two big things that go with rural production. The lift in beef prices, both domestic and export, has been of help to Tasmanian producers, but it has shown up the fact that we have an excess of processing facilities. I am afraid that over the next year or two this over-capacity is going to create further problems. The dairymen of Tasmania also face a far better year than they have had for many years, but again we must bear in mind that there is a substantial over-capacity in that area that is likely to react against them. 
Stud cattle producers look forward to capitalising on their reduced disease stock, which has become known between the Tasmanian Government and the Bureau of Animal Health as Tasmania's advanced disease-free status. It has been my pleasure to enjoy very full and open cooperation with the Tasmanian Minister and through him with his Department, as well as with the Bureau of Animal Health here in Canberra, on this topic of advanced disease-free status for Tasmania. Tasmania has a most enviable situation in regard to its livestock health, and great credit is due to the Tasmanian Department, the Government and the farmers of Tasmania for the present condition of their livestock. This status has not been achieved quickly. It has not been easy to achieve and it certainly has not been cheap. After many years, Tasmanian stud stock producers now stand a chance of being able to recoup some of the expenses that have gone into getting their livestock to the status that it now enjoys. 
The crop farmers are expressing confidence again this year and there are better chances of overseas sales for many of their products. Fishing is likely to improve. The majority of manufacturers have expressed confidence, and the vast majority of mines have produced better figures than for some years. In every one of these cases the improvement has occurred because inflation has been brought under control, which has made products more competitive. Costs are more stable than they have been for some years, and of course that is the story of the Budget. Everything hangs on the productivity of the country. 
No one can spend what does not exist. Production that can be sold on world markets has to be the only way in which Australia can trade out of its current position. The Budget provides Australia with the best possible chance of doing that. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Secretary of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation,  Mr Joe  Thompson, has been reported as saying that, where a union comes close to covering all the workers in an industry, like the waterside workers or the vehicle builders, it should be able to ask the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to give complete and exhaustive coverage. Is this view shared by other similarly placed unions? Has the Government considered amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to make such a practice possible in cases where demarcation issues are likely to cause problems? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In a Press release of 10 October the Minister for National Development gave much detail of a coal to oil study being carried out in conjunction with the Federal Republic of Germany. Can the Minister advise the basis of the contributions from the three States mentioned, namely, Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. When will the study commence and how long is it expected to take? 
I wish to speak only very briefly on this matter. I do not claim to be an expert on taxation measures any more than practically everybody in the community. In that regard I think we all claim to have an involvement and some degree of expertise when it comes to our own tax at any rate, or in what we believe other people ought to be paying. In my mind and I think in the minds of every taxpayer the main requirement is that taxation should be fair and that it should be spread equally. If we look back and see the way in which inevitably over a number of years there has been a taxation creep we see also that it has led to different people trying to avoid paying their fair share. Every time over the last many years that the Government has changed the taxation law in any way, all sorts of additional ways of evading tax have been created by people who should be paying it but who try to avoid it. A wide variety of schemes have been tried by all sorts of people. All this is done for one purpose and that is so that the taxpayer can seize an advantage at the expense of another taxpayer. It is not a matter whether the taxation system is right or wrong; it is how taxpayers can move away from the position where they should be paying tax. Quite clearly this Government has decided to strive for tax equality, to eliminate lurks that have crept in and to ensure that a reasonable tax is shared by more people. 
Over the last few weeks I have had the opportunity to visit many of the mines and several factories in Tasmania and in most of these places I have chosen to discuss the Budget and some of the various taxation measures with the people in these places. As I stand before the Senate night I can say that I have not had one objection from any worker in any mine or factory I have visited in the last few weeks about the taxing of holiday pay. I feel sorry for those who have been caught up by this provision- there are some who have been and we have heard of them here tonightbut they represent a tiny minority of the taxpaying public. 
Let us consider those who are not in the position of having their holiday- pay taxed in the way proposed under this legislation. Let us consider the vast majority of workers who have to take their holidays on an annual basis. They do not have a choice. They work either on an annual shut-down basis or in the sort of job where the conditions of employment are that employees have to take their holidays. These people represent the vast majority. What is their position? I do not think that we should have the vast majority of the wage earning people subsidising a minority of people who in many cases are the higher wages earners and have an opportunity to juggle their holidays on a basis that will be advantageous to them. There has been a certain amount of publicity in the Press in recent weeks of isolated cases. I remember one case where a certain gentleman got a cheque for $46,000 for long service and holiday pay not taken and on five per cent of this amount he would pay tax. However, the average worker in the mines and factories I have visited around Tasmania in the last few weeks would have paid the normal rate of tax on every cent of such a payment. 
The workers to whom I have been speaking appreciate that the curbing of inflation and interest rates is the biggest bonus they can have. In the mines and factories they know that their jobs depend entirely on export sales, that export sales depend on price comparability with other countries, that price depends on cost stability at home and that costs depend on inflation. This evening while I have been listening to Opposition senators speaking in this debate I have not learned very much because I have not heard one worthwhile point to cause me to believe that there is anything unjust or undesirable about the taxation legislation we are debating. We have to consider whether we want our industries working. This is what it gets back to. If we want to have our industries working and want to have the people who are currently working in these industries continuing to work in them, we have to work towards national stability. We have to consider our international situation and how we line up with the other members of the international trading community. 
We have seen over the last few years that in times of instability the first thing that happens is that export competitive items become noncompetitive and the people working in these industries are put out of work. I think that it would be fair to say that in Tasmania now the mines are doing well and the farmers are doing far better than they have done for some years. I also believe that it is fair to say that the position of most manufacturing industries is improving. I am not saying that this trend is universal by any means yet but, generally, things are far better than they have been for some years. If this is indicative of the situation around Australia, we will find that greater prosperity brings greater profit and that greater profit yields more taxation. We then will be able to spread the benefits of taxation more evenly amongst the needy. I trust that the temporary tax that has been imposed this year will, by the time it finishes at the end of June, have put a lot of industries into such a profitable situation that the burden of tax will be shifted into the industrial sector temporarily. My big aim is to see that tax generally is reduced to a level where incentive is again restored. 
I have seen a lot of pensioners lately and have presented several petitions to the chamber. I have not had a discussion with one pensioner who has not agreed that inflation has been the biggest destroyer of the pension in the last 10 years. I have not had a discussion with one pensioner who would prefer to have a half-yearly, a quarterly or even a monthly pension determination ahead of retaining the current level of stability in the rate of inflation. All pensioners will be far better off knowing that interest rates are falling, that prices are stable, that rents are secure and that their savings are intact. When we compare the situation that exists now following the 1978 Budget with what it has been over the last five years, every pensioner in Australia should be very thankful that we are not in a position where, as somebody put it, we are seeing destruction by this insidious rate of inflation. While all this is happening, the Opposition is still preaching that we should spend and increase the rate of inflation. I do not understand how it can see that course as a reasonable alternative. I support the legislation. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry any information on the evaluation of trials being carried out by the Bureau of Animal Health and  the Victorian Department of Agriculture into the alternative method of detection of brucellosis known as the indirect haemolysis test or IHLT which I understand is hoped to take over from the existing method and which would involve not insignificant savings of both cost and time in the eradication program? If not, will the Minister please obtain a report and advise the Senate? 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Has any approach been made to this Government for the purchase of the land mark at Stanley in Tasmania known as 'The Nut'? If not, should the Government be prepared to transfer ownership of this piece of land, would it have to be a transfer to the State Government or could the local government authority seek to have ownership vested in it? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Government any intention of varying the level of recovery currently being obtained from meat export inspection services and/or disease eradication campaigns during this financial year? If so, to what extent and when will it be varied? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
What are the latest available figures relating to funds invested  by  the superannuation funds of Commonwealth government employees and employees of Commonwealth instrumentalities in: 
Commonwealth securities; 
b) shares in public companies; 
housing mortgages; 
commercial mortgages; 
freehold property; 
joint venture investments; and 
other. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce been drawn to an article in the Melbourne  Age  of 23 October in the 'Monday Job Market' feature? Has his attention been drawn to the headline which states that clothing industry workers are exploited and that this information is the result of a survey? As the article states that the information was provided by a survey that was carried out by the Australian Council of Social Service and commissioned by the Federal Government's study group on structural adjustment, can the Minister advise whether the information would be used or disregarded in view of its total distortion of the position, its basic inaccuracies, its completely non-representative selection, and conclusions which are very damaging to the positions of employers and employees of the industry alike? Would the Minister agree to take up the matter with the editor of the  Age  and ask him to have the clothing industry and its employees given space to rectify the very severe wrongs that the article implies? 
-On behalf of  Senator Knight  I present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitions therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
2 ) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT 
And your petitions as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry ascertain whether the Government has had any recent discussions with the authorities in those several countries- seventeen, I believe- that last year imposed bans on the import of Australian ruminants as a result of the isolation of the bluetongue virus with a view to having those restrictions eased or removed now that there still has been no confirmed case of the disease in Australia? 
I support the Bill, but I cannot accept the amendment to it. If we support the Bill we must first seek to regularise the items that remain in possible doubt. That is the main object of our consideration. As to the other aspects, that concerning the de facto relationship- of which I certainly am not greatly enamoured, but believe is part of the trend- I accept. I support the introduction of an application fee. In the last 20 years or more 1 have had a lot to do, from a variety of directions, with the provision of war service homes and can vouch for the fact that in many cases people have said: 'Let's give it a try.' If they get it, good luck; if not, it has cost them nothing. They may have lost a bit of time, but they will still be well in front. I believe that, in view of the cost to the Government, that is quite unreasonable. The form is there and can be read. Potential applicants know, by reading it, whether they are qualified. If they are unsure they can get someone, such as a solicitor, builder or agent, to read it for them. I do not see that it should be necessary to process the applications of 2,000 people who were not eligible in the first place. 
We have to look at this matter fairly objectively. There is no doubt that by any standard that might be applied in any comparable country we have by far the best such scheme in the world. I was about to say 'scheme for war service'which is how I would like it to be. I am in favour of keeping the scheme as good as we can keep it. I do not want to see it spread thinly. The political amendments of the last few years, by diverting the benefits of the scheme from those who needed them to those who might vote for them, weakened the scheme considerably. I did not support that approach then and I do not support it now. It is quite unreasonable to make various differentiations on the basis that one case is more deserving than another. 
This legislation has always been a political measure. It was introduced in 1918, and I would recommend that everyone read the debates right back to that year. One has to remember the atmosphere in 1918. We had thousands of returned servicemen who had been on five bob a day and who were returning to Australia with no money, no skills, no jobs- nothing. The 700 that was then provided for war service homes purposes presented the only way in which the vast majority of those men were ever likely to get a start in life. The interest rate, compared to the then ruling rate of 5 per cent, was 4 per cent. 
Today we are talking of a rate of 3.75 per cent as against a ruling commercial rate of 10.5 per cent. People who have in the last few years spent a three-year stint in the Army, who have had a wonderful life, excellent conditions, good pay, a high degree of training and have come out better educated men, with careers in front of them, have also had these bonuses offered- quite unrealistically in relation to their situation. 
It is a view that is supported by the vast majority of ex-service personnel organisations. Since 1918, when the Bill was introduced, it has been tampered with politically on many occasions. It has also been changed on several occasions as a matter of necessity. There have been at least 35 sets of amendments to it, and those amendments number well over 100. 1 do not know what the exact  number  is, but we have reached the stage at which it would be far preferable to give the whole basis of the legislation a complete overhaul than to keep fiddling with it, as has been happening for many years. It is time that we looked at just whom the system should assist, and how it should assist them. I repeat, the assistance given has been spread too thinly, over too many, and it would be far better to examine again just what the scheme is all about, why it is in existence, why it was formed and why it is still on-going. Many who still are eligible are treated unreasonably. Some are overly well treated and others are treated less than adequately.   
I would .like to see the Government examine the whole basis of the funding system involved. For some time I have been considering how it could be streamlined, made less wasteful and more easily organised, to the greater advantage of the people involved. I would like to give to the Senate a few figures so that honourable senators may see the problem that now confronts many of the beneficiaries. Let us assume the case of a beneficiary who wished to buy or build a house that would necessitate a mortgage of $30,000. Admittedly, that is a reasonably high figure, one that is slightly above the average, but certainly not uncommon in the war service homes field. If, under a defence service homes mortgage, the applicant obtained $12,000 at 3.75 per cent, it would cost him $450 in interest. If he obtained a further $3,000 at 7.25 per cent it would cost him another $217.25 in interest. If he obtained a further $15,000 second mortgage at 12.5 per cent, it would cost him $1,875. Thus, the total interest cost for the $30,000 would be $2,542.25. That would be the cost if he used all of the advantages of the defence service homes provisions. At the defence services homes rate this represents an interest remission of $887.50, when  compared with the cost involved in taking out an ordinary commercial housing loan at 10.5 per cent. But if such an applicant had taken out only one mortgage, a first mortgage for $30,000, through any bank or building society at 10.5 per cent he would have paid $3,150, or approximately $600 more than he would pay by taking advantage of the defence service homes provisions. If we allow a remission in interest according to the advantages that go with an interest rate of 3.75 per cent, as' against the current commercial rate of 10.5 per cent, that remission would be of the order of $887.50. If that amount were subtracted from the $3,150 it would leave an amount of $2,273, which would offer the applicant an advantage of approximately $300, as well as a saving in mortgage costs, and would reduce it to a one-payment scheme instead of a two-payment scheme. 
Let me explain how this could work. The Defence Service Homes Corporation need do no more than consider an applicant's eligibility and, if satisfied, provide him with a certificate thereof. With such a certificate, the applicant could go to any financing authority of his choice and obtain a house. The lending authority could then apply to the Defence Service Homes Corporation for the $15,000, or whatever figure was involved, and make repayments twice yearly. It would involve no fiddling around of any sort in the Defence Service Homes Corporation. It would not be necessary for the Corporation to make inspections or worry about all the physical factors. It would eliminate an awful lot of the present running about that is both time consuming and expensive. It would allow the applicant to deal at the place of his choice with an institution of his choice. He could make his repayments by bank order or to the nearest division of the lending authority if he wished. 
I suggest that he should also be free to do the same with his insurance if that suits him. The compulsory insurance that goes with this scheme has been unsatisfactory to a great number of people. It has been costly to a great number who have had claims- because of their negligence, admittedly- because it was not easy to claim. People who have all their other insurance with one company have found it inconvenient to be fiddled about with insurance on their houses. A change in this requirement would allow them to make whatever arrangements they wish or that are appropriate and at whatever price they are able to obtain. I see no difference in this situation as compared with any other scheme which allows people freedom to insure wherever they wish. 
The insurance scheme at the moment just lacks the ordinary ease and flexibility for people to be able to insure with a company of their choice in a manner of their choice and where they can get the service that suits them. The defence service homes scheme is a cheap scheme. In a cheap scheme one loses something and gains something. In this regard one loses the flexibility of having one's insurance agent, who looks after the rest of one 's insurance, at the same time look after one's house insurance. A representative will call to make sure that one's coverage is up-to-date and so on. These points are typical of the defence service homes scheme. It suits the great proportion of people who have only house insurance and who are well satisfied with these insurance provisions. But for the majority of people who are engaged in business enterprises of one sort or another and who have a defence service home it is inconvenient to have this compulsory insurance. 
I would not make any other form of insurance compulsory but certainly I believe that an optional alternative method of insurance should be available. This is only one of the matters we should consider in view of the fact that this is 1918 legislation. I believe that it should not be continued by putting just another nail in here and there as has been done over many years. I will certainly recommend this suggestion to the Government for consideration. I think we have to reassess what is left of the old 1918 Act to see whether we can produce a scheme which is entirely different to suit the circumstances of the 1980s rather than the circumstances of 1918 when the legislation was originally introduced. I support the legislation for what it is doing at the moment. Last time I spoke on the legislation I said that I hoped we would have an opportunity to revamp its whole style. I still do. In the meantime I support the legislation. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry ascertain whether there has been any discussions between the Minister he represents and the Treasurer on the possibility of establishing a rural loans insurance scheme similar to that operating in the housing field? If such discussions have not been held, will the Minister ask that consideration be given to the proposition and for a response to be provided? 
I too support the Bills, the basic purpose of which, as has been stated, is to regularise an existing condition. I noticed that  Mr Fry  when speaking on these Bills in the House of Representatives, made quite a lot of comment about the numbers of farmers and processers that have been lost to the industry. He somewhat lamented the position. However, he did not say why this was the case. I accept that the number of dairy farmers in Australia at the moment is reputedly of the order of 24,000. The number was probably three times as high some years ago. The reason why this has come about would need some elaboration and I will not go into that now. But certainly the numbers are reducing. However, whilst this is happening we have to consider that the efficiency of the industry is improving. We only have to look at the production per cow, per acre or per farmer to see just how much improvement there has been in recent years. Regrettably many of the benefits resulting from these improvements have been absorbed in cost increases and in meeting the requirements of world markets at times when our inflation rate and the value of our currency have been high. Whichever way we look at it we have to admit- and I do very willingly- that the dairy farmer has met the requirements of the market very admirably. We now have a most efficient production unit. 
I have many friends as well in the processing end of the industry, and I would have to say that regrettably they have not shown the same degree of advancement as has the milk producer. I think they are now starting to improve in this respect but it has been noticeable for years that this improvement has been very slow in coming. I believe that the industry needs considerably more rationalisation. I believe that the Government and the Dairying Research Committee need to give a lot more thought to how we are to assist in this rationalisation process. The processors are now going into the production of new items. However, we do not want them just to increase their capacity. I think as we look around Australia, we will find that many manufacturers, instead of rationalising, have in fact increased their capacity. There is now quite a scramble in many areas to handle more milk and to try to encourage farmers to produce more milk when this may not be what we are looking for in any short, medium or long term program. We will require a lot more co-operation from the manufacturing sector. I believe that we genuinely need fewer factories, particularly where overlapping is obvious. If we get better utilisation we will automatically reduce some of the costs and increase farmer returns and improve production. 
The Research Committee spent $878,013.20 on research in 1976-77. In 1977-78 the figure was $863,776.87. In those two years approximately $629,000 was spent on the farm end and $849,000 on the manufacturing end. The Research Committee has done a magnificent job since 1 972. 1 do not wish to query the work that it has done or its many achievements. The industry owes a great deal to this Committee and to all those whose projects have been considered and funded. But I have to ask the question: Is it achieving what we are all trying to achieve? Frankly, I doubt it because I do not think that we are meeting the market and I do not think that sufficient funding is being spent on the market. 
I do not think that we know enough yet, by a long way, of what the market- that is, the people- wants. I do not think we know enough of what we have to do to the product to improve it and its saleability. I think we need to look a lot more closely at the presentation, the packaging and the promotion of the product to see whether it is attractive to the retailer by way of margin when compared with other lines. In a grocery shop it is a grocery item which is being sold and is has to compete with all other groceries for shelf space. I think there are many cases in relation to butter, cheese, yoghurt or any of these sorts of products where this has not been so. 
I too would like to pay great credit to the Victorian department in the promotion of the Big M. It was the best single shot that the dairy industry has had for many years. This program has now been started in Tasmania and in today's Tasmanian Press it was announced that there is currently a shortage of milk in Tasmania because of the success of the Big M program. 
But what about the two basis products, butter and cheese? Have we done enough to win the extra shelf space and the extra sale at the point of sale for these products? Information provided to Senate Estimates Committee D states that in 1972-73 butter had 109,000 tonnes of the spread market while margarine had 75,000 tonnes of the market. The estimates for 1977-78 are that domestic consumption of butter will have dropped from 109,000 tonnes to 72,400 tonnes while at the same time margarine consumption will have increased from 75,000 tonnes to 118,000 tonnes. There are many reasons why this may have happened but really no work has been done by the Dairying Research Committee to see why this has happened, although efforts have been made by some sources to improve the position of butter. 
Over the last year or so, many manufacturers have decided to take some of these projects fairly seriously. They are working on them. In particular they are working on trying to provide a more appealing presentation. The product has to appeal to the buyer before it will be taken by the buyer. I seriously urge that the Committee should change from being a highly technical body to being more of a practical body. I think that it should see how to go about spending more money on the retail end of the market. We need to look at items that are included in the Dairying Research Committee report to see where money is being spent. The 1978 Dairying Research Committee report of which I have a copy shows that there are five main areas comprising dairy farm research. They consist of soils and pastures, animal-pasture relationships, animal health, animal physiology and farm management. They are essential in the production area. Dairy manufacturing research involves fermented dairy products, whey, milkfat and milk protein products. The dairy education scheme involves training, post-graduate studentships, travel grants, dairy industry bursaries, study grants and awards for 1978. But none of these projects are oriented towards the one important factor, that is getting the product into the home market. 
Much has been said recently about the cholesterol question in dairy products. I do not think that the industry has engaged in the sort of research that would determine whether it has a problem in the cholesterol field. I believe that the dairy industry itself must take an active part in coming to grips with the cholesterol question. The moneys that are spent by the fund are backed dollar for dollar by the Government. This provides a good base from which to work. If the charter that the Research Committee has does not cover items such as promotion and cholesterol investigation, then I submit that the Committee should apply to have its charter extended to cover those two items in particular or other items of a similar nature. Production of all dairy products has to be carefully monitored and organised. There are still very real problems in marketing in both the Australian and the international field. It is very worrying to find increasing access by the European Economic Community to the world markets and to several of the markets that we have traditionally chosen to supply. We have to consider the effect that this will have on New Zealand. We will have to compete with New Zealand on the markets it holds. It probably has a fairly tenuous grip on some of the markets. 
I think everybody interested in the dairy industry is absolutely delighted with the prices that are being paid this year. In Tasmania, the price is up to 83c per pound and it is producing an excellent return. I hope that this price will be maintained and that seasons will prove that this is worthwhile. The great advantages that have come from the Government's underwriting scheme have been felt right throughout the industry. The scheme has given many farmers a lot of hope to continue. Also, the Government's controlling of inflation has made a tremendous difference to the people who are involved in both an internal and an export marketing business. The rationalising of Australia's exchange level has also made a lot of difference in the export field. 
In closing my remarks, I repeat that great care has to be taken as to priorities. Although we are currently having great success with our Big M program, we have to make sure that we do not get carried away into an over-supply situation. We must ensure that our production is geared to sales and that sales are geared to profit. I do not believe that we should be making an additional product so that we can supply it on the international markets at less than a reasonable price. We must make sure that the interests of the manufacturers cannot override the interests of the primary producer, that is the milk supplier. Although many manufacturers are still trying to increase their throughput, this may result in an increase in product for which there is no market. The research must not diminish but I believe it must be concentrated on the market end first. We have to concentrate on producing the product in the nature and form that the market, both at home and abroad, require. I support the Bills. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. With Royal Australian Air Force aircraft now providing services to the Australian Antarctic bases by operating out of New Zealand in conjunction with and supplementing the United States and New Zealand air force transport pool, will the Minister advise for how long these arrangements are to continue and whether it is proposed that consideration be given to the eventual establishment of a base in Tasmania for these operational flights? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of a campaign being waged by the retail industry claiming that the Government intends to introduce a retail turnover tax and urging people to pressure their Federal members of parliament to oppose any such tax? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the current situation in relation to the investigation by the Australian Taxation Office of a broadbased indirect tax? 
I rise without fear or trepidation and with no intention of covering the ground which I believe has been adequately covered to date.  Senator Ryan's  reference to a promise being made to the people of Canberra is not quite how I see the situation. If my information is correct, at the last Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly election abortion was not an issue at any time of any party or any candidate and no referendum has been held on the matter. I certainly would not regard any of the polls or surveys which have been conducted since then as having any authority. I do not accept that the Legislative Assembly or any body delegated by it has the right to press or represent that it speaks for the people of the Australian Capital Territory at this time on this matter. If the decision involves a straightforward political matter, quite clearly it would not be unreasonable to give the members of the Assembly the opportunity to resign from their positions and go to the voters so that the voters can elect their representatives knowing their views on the subject. If it is not a political matter but an item referred to as a matter of conscience, by all means resort to the holding of a referendum. Honourable senators should not, however, represent members of a committee of an advisory body, several of whom I am told are appointed and not elected, as being in a position to speak for the people of the Australian Capital Territory, regardless of whether the matter is political or one of conscience. 
This Parliament and no one else has the responsibility for matters of health in the Capital Territory. This responsibility must be discharged with great care. As to the item currently under review, as with other areas, I believe it would be quite wrong to treat the Australian Capital Territory as a place to conduct some social experiment. That is not the function, as I see it, of this chamber. It is far more proper that we should be responsible. I acknowledge that there has been some discussion and even some dispute on the clumsy way in which the matter has gone so far but I cannot agree that this provides any excuse for us to act in any way now that could establish a position based on our own political or philosophical view while there can be any chance of this being contrary to the requirements or wishes of the majority of Australian Capital Territory residents to retain the existing position. No one can tell me that the residents of the Territory have demonstrated this view. I would welcome information from any honourable senator which indicates otherwise. 
I cannot support any move on the matter that does not satisfy the matters I have raised. Accordingly I will be opposing the motion. I commend honourable senators of all points of view who have taken their convictions seriously enough to become engaged in the debate. Like  Senator Chaney,  I believe that this is not only acceptable but also commendable. I particularly thank  Senator Tate, Senator Baume  and  Senator Chaney  for their clear, practical and unemotional statements on the issue. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
What are the latest available figures relating to funds invested by the superannuation funds of the Life Insurance Companies in: (a) Commonwealth securities; (b) shares in public companies; (c) housing mortgages; (d) commercial mortgages; (e) freehold property; (f) joint venture investments; and (g) other. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to the report in the  Australian  of 1 4 October on Cis Platinum, which states: 
Hospitals are paying a  mulitnational  drug firm $2,300 a gram for a drug which local science graduates can make for a fraction of the cost . . . 
Will the Minister ascertain whether inquiries have progressed to a stage which will enable the drug to be manufactured in Australia on a wider scale so that more tests can be made in Australian hospitals at a cost less than the present exorbitant cost of the drug permits? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he can advise how many fishing joint ventures have so far been approved under the guidelines for the 200-mile zone legislation, how many have been rejected and how many are still awaiting decision. Can the Minister also advise whether there are any administrative problems holding up approvals and when the allocation for the balance of the waters may be completed? 
-Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate of any recent developments in respect of the Australian Maritime College. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce: Can the Minister give advice on the operation of the 'early warning system' for ASEAN countries as outlined in the statement by  Mr Peacock  on 13 November 1978. Can he also advise at what stage Australian industries are informed, and how the relative Australian and ASEAN industries rate in determining the matters under consideration? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it correct that the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation is varying the terms and conditions under which it offers sponsorship to carcass competitions? If so, what qualities are being encouraged? Do these qualities coincide with overseas as well as domestic preferences, requirements and trends? 
I think that honourable senators are aware of my previous involvement in this matter. At this stage it gives me great pleasure to support the Tasmania Grant (The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. 1 have spoken on the Mount Lyell matter in the chamber on several occasions in the past. I have provided various details behind the company, the town and the current position. I will not go through a tedious repetition of those details. I think it is relevant that we look at the position over the last year or so. When I looked through the previous debates I found that I had made various predictions as to what I felt was likely to happen. Fortunately, most of these are occurring more or less on line. In November 1977 when we were debating the matter, the Australian price of copper was about $1,030 a tonne. In May 1978 when we also debated the matter it was $1,200 a tonne. Since then, it has reached about $1,300 a tonne. It is currently between $ 1 ,250 and $ 1 ,300 a tonne. 
I also referred to the international position at the time. I think it is fair to say that international copper prices are exactly the same now as they were then. The position is still very clouded. I think it is fair to say that the market conditions are also still improving. It gave me pleasure a couple of months ago to take a group of my colleagues to Queenstown. We had a very pleasant experience of meeting the warden and councillors, the Trades and Labour Council, union representatives, management and staff. It gave us an opportunity to consider the position from the civic point of view, from the mining point of view and from the point of view of the people of Queenstown. I said previously- I repeat it- that I cannot give too much credit to what Bruce Dilger, Russell Maher, Dick Patterson and all their associates have done to keep the town and the mine going. I do not know of a finer example of civic and industrial co-operation than exists at Mount Lyell. 
Recent discussions I have had indicate that the community is still totally involved in the most creditable way possible. While we were there we spoke to the men in their work situation in the mill. We spoke to the engineers and the miners. The enthusiasm for the mine and the challenge that the employees have accepted were evident everywhere. It did a lot to assist my colleagues to understand the situation. Whether they all agree with some of the philosophical aspects of the arrangement I do not know, but at least they all came away with a far better understanding of the position than they had before. Regrettably, not all of them had enough knowledge of the situation previously. One has only to refer to the Hansard of previous debates for that statement to be borne out. I do not wish to engage in a debate on matters of ignorance or opinion, but I totally refute the comment by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  that the mine has a life of only two years. My colleagues and I established while we were at the mine that there is development and there is stoping for at least five years. The present program is to run for 20 years. There is no reason why the program will not continue and expand. 
On 29 May I referred to the efficiency, productivity and cost structure of the operation. I am pleased to say now that production at the mine is still very satisfactory. There are continuing increases in efficiency. Productivity generally is still increasing and working costs are still declining. The reserves are officially listed as being in excess of 30 million tonnes of workable ore. In nearly a century of the mine's operation it has never had more proven reserves than it has now. The value of these reserves at today's prices is substantially in excess of $500m. The price of copper has to be the basis of future prosperity. I have previously discussed the current figures but I think it is interesting to take some note of a comment that appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  on 8 November. John Edwards of the  Financial Times  was reported as having said: 
Only half the world's current copper mining was justified  at prices of 65c a lb. 
That is about $1,300 a tonne. The report continued: 
A price of about 80c was needed to enable normal mining enterprises to achieve profitability; $1 to $1.20 was required to build a new fully integrated facility from mine to refinery. 
However, as demand was growing steadily, a big copper shortage was likely producing a big boom in prices as in 1974. 
None of us wants to see a big boom in copper prices but I think we all wish to see stability in the copper market world wide. The company, like every reliable source of information on the copper industry, is expecting the price to remain at a payable level for at least the next three or four years. I do not think that beyond that period the price is really predictable. But on the current basis of world supply and demand the next three or four years would appear to be well and truly covered. World efforts are still being made to secure stability in the price of copper. Moves have been going on now for some years to try to get co-operation from major producers in Third World countries, to regulate their supply to retain a marketable price. This situation seems to be getting closer. The general financial situation of many of those countries will make it necessary for them to enter into some sort of a scheme because they cannot continue to market copper at less than payable prices on a total national loss basis forever. Co-operation would appear to be much closer than it has been for a long time. Any of these influences on the world market situation must help Mount Lyell. At present the company would be in the bottom half of the low cost producers. It is one of the world's low cost producers when compared with its position some years ago when it was recognised as being one of the highest cost producers. 
I think it is appropriate that I make some mention of the comparison between gold mining and copper mining which was made recently by a certain member in the other chamber. It is not possible to compare the current situations of the two different mining operations. We have to remember that gold prices are the highest they have ever been in history. Any gold mine that is finding it difficult to pay on these sorts of prices certainly could have no future prospects with lower prices. On the other hand copper prices are still quite low, with every prospect of improvement. I think we all agree that if we can keep afloat a copper mine that is on the verge of profitability or has marginal profitability as is now the case with Mount Lyell, it will be only a matter of time before the market will catch up and put it into a sound and working condition. 
We need the Mount Lyell mine to operate. It plays a very important part in the whole of the industrial and social status of the west and northwest coast of Tasmania. It has played a most important part in the general economics of the State. I think it is only right that we should ensure that it has an opportunity to exist as there is an improvement in the prices. I think all of us want to wish the people of Queenstown and the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd every success in the future. We are very pleased that the company and the State Government have seen fit to join in this three-sided arrangement to inject funds when they are needed. I hope that the funds we are approving today will never be needed. But whilst State industries are basically State matters I think all Tasmanians genuinely appreciate what this Government has done, not only for Mount Lyell but also for Tasmania generally. We have only to look at such other items as the Antarctic base, the maritime college and the freight equalisation scheme, to name just three projects, to see the importance that this Government attaches to Tasmania. I support the approval of the facility which will make this loan available. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. At the second annual meeting of the Australian Dairy Industry Council the  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation,  Mr Webster,  stated that he was very concerned at the possible delays in the establishment of a national herd recording system and offered whatever assistance the Corporation could provide to ensure that this most essential development is introduced at the earliest possible opportunity. For how long has there been a national herd recording program? Does it have the support of the Australian Agricultural Council? If so, when is the system expected to operate? 
I will speak briefly in the debate and will try to keep my remarks relevant to the Bill under discussion, the Primary Industry Bank Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, which I support. I find it impossible to speak to the Bill without commenting on some of the ridiculous remarks to which we have been listening. Amongst all that complicated and devious economic garbage to which we have been subjected and which perhaps  Senator Walsh  alone may understand, I am absolutely staggered to find just how little the honourable senator knows about banking in any way, shape or form. I am even more surprised that  Senator Walsh  stated that he does not believe in any form of concessional support for farmers or the provision of finance to farmers and does not support the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. It is worth noting exactly where honourable senators on both sides of the chamber stand in respect of the Primary Industry Bank. 
It also surprised me to find that, in spite of all the figures that  Senator Walsh  cited in support of the Bank and what the Government has done, he still is trying to claim, for reasons that nobody could ever understand, that the facts prove something other that what they do. The Bank does exactly what it was promised it would do. It provides concessional finance in a whole range of fringe areas, and this is a point which  Senator Walsh  will never understand. I challenge him to go out into the banking field and secure a loan from any other financial institution in Australia on the terms and conditions that are available from the Primary Industry Bank. I venture to suggest that that is totally impossible. 
-The difference would be substantially more than that and such interest rates are not available from any other source. Taking into account the terms of the loans and the interest rates offered on the types of securities accepted, there is no way that  Senator Walsh, Senator Georges  or anybody else could go out into the market place and secure such finance. In any terms, it is obviously concessional finance. 
It is concessional on the things that will be financed by the Primary Industry Bank. We have to look at the reasons that many people are now becoming eligible for finance from the Primary Industry Bank. Many of them have had to finance in any way possible their extensions and their livelihood. During the years of unbridled inflation, they had to resort to hire purchase and leasing arrangements; they had to take short term overdrafts at times when their incomes were falling and their costs were rising; they had to resort to finance from the great pastoral firms and pay interest accordingly; and they had to repay the loans in due course. The biggest killer in farming finance is repayments and the longer the term of the loan, the better the chance of farm survival becomes. It is deadly to take out a five or six year loan or a hire purchase commitment over two or three years. The Primary Industry Bank has now taken over these loans over a far longer period and at a far lower interest rate than offered by any other comparable form of finance in Australia.  Senator Walsh  can go out and look for it - 
-That is not what the Government is offering in this Bill, and we are not offering loans on the same security or on the same type of risk. The day that the honourable senator comes into the Senate and tells me that he can obtain a loan over 30 years at a 10 per cent interest rate with the sort of security accepted by the Primary Industry Bank, I will eat my hat. The provision of an additional $30m, at an interest rate of five per cent, from the Income Equalisation Deposits Trust Account will be a big help to the system. 
I read through the debate on a so-called matter of public importance which took place in the Senate recently. I did not understand how such a debate took place in the first place but I was grateful for the fact that it gave Government senators the chance to demolish totally the weak arguments that were thrown up by the Opposition. The Government has done what it said it would do and what was necessary for it to do because it had so much support to win back. The Bank will be of big assistance in the financing of farms, and for evidence of this we have only to look at the difference it will make in conjunction with the improvements that are now occurring in, say, the dairying and beef industries in my area. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has stated that a 40 per cent increase in farm incomes is likely and that, too, will be a big help because the increase in farm incomes will increase the level of income equalisation deposits which in turn will increase the ability of this Bank to use those funds. 
The extra revenue will facilitate development and it will increase productivity and profitability. The Bank is now in operation. The only comment that I offer to  Senator Walsh  is that if he wants to make any complaint, he had better make it now because in 12 months time he will not be able to do so. I support the use of income equalisation deposits by the Bank and the amendments to the Act that will make this possible. I totally reject the notions put forward by  Senator Walsh  who obviously looks at the achievements of this Government with envy and wishes that his Government had been able to achieve them when it was in power. 
Whilst I have some fairly severe reservations about a couple of aspects of this legislation, I believe that its passage and implementation is so important that it should not now be withheld. As part of our overall export package it would surely have the support of every Australian businessman. Emphasis has to be placed upon export if Australia is to get on top of the balance of payments deficit, the unemployment problem and all of the other day-to-day problems. Over the six months that this legislation has been in existence many submissions have been made and received. They cover many aspects of the legislation. I have to say that almost all these aspects have been taken care of and almost everybody is happy, but there are a few who still are not happy. 
Since Friday of last week- I very sincerely regret that it has been only since Friday of last week- I have been again getting submissions on this subject. I thank all the people from the four States who have contacted me. They represent a variety of businesses, companies and organisations. They have all put their case. Regrettably, I was unaware of the problems until last Friday. I believed that the items I had previously heard of and looked into had been satisfactorily discharged. Since Friday I have spent considerable time on the telephone talking to many people, including officers of the Department of Trade and Resources, the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  who is in charge of the legislation, my colleague  Senator Messner  and members of the Opposition, trying to solve the very real areas of concern. In almost every case, I have to say, those with whom I have spoken see it slightly differently from one another. Getting a form or forms of words to cover the position has been extremely difficult indeed. Of all the people to whom I have spoken, only two have put words on paper. Regrettably, neither seems to cover the position that we are trying to look into at the moment. Recourse to the debate in the House of Representatives, for instance, did not help us at all. 
So, here we are now without a solution that I see as acceptable. Considerable effort and great good will have gone into this. I have to say that the departmental officers have provided every possible assistance; but the Bill, I believe, has to go forward as presented. I say that with regret, because it not fulfilling the entire wishes of the Government. It will tend to cause problems to recipients and would-be recipients under the scheme. The two particular interests with which I have been dealing are the group of merchants known as the Island Traders Association, which was referred to by  Senator Wriedt,  and a group of merchants and brokers predominantly associated with the meat industry. The passing of this legislation could create changes to the pattern of trade which I do not agree would be for the good of those industries, or likely to improve Australia's overall export trade. In fact, the opposite may occur. 
Over the last three or four years- they were very difficult years in the meat trade- very largely it has been the brokers who have produced the expertise to find a home for a very difficult product, as it has been all over the world. They worked very hard and did a pretty good job in most cases. I think it would be very foolish if meat processors tried to eliminate the brokers and all of their expertise for the ability to pick up the expansion grant themselves for a short term. I hope that existing marketing patterns will be followed. I regret that some reasonable form of words could not be or has not been found to enable this fairly simple and very extensive situation which exists throughout Australia to be regularised through the Act. At a time when every possible export effort is being mounted, I believe that it would be most unfortunate if, in an effort to expand, we eliminated even one proven, existing and operative body from the market place of the world. The legislation provides that the grant shall go to the person who makes the sale and is legally and enforceably responsible for seeing that it is carried out. That part is 100 per cent, and that is the Government's intention. It is unfortunate however, that the pattern of trade is not quite that simple and that the practice and the legislation do not quite fit. I have to apologise to all those people for whom I have tried to find a solution that would serve the purpose, but I believe from discussions with the Minister that the matter is not closed. I believe that it will be in order for all those who are interested to make submissions to either the Minister or the Department on any suggestions that they feel may assist in resolving the matter. The thrust of the legislation I applaud, and I encourage producers of all goods, primary and secondary to endeavour to take advantage of what the Bills provide. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
What are the latest available figures relating to funds invested by the superannuation funds of State Government employees and employees of State instrumentalities in: (a) Commonwealth securities; (b) shares in public companies; (c) housing mortgages; (d) commercial mortgages; (e) freehold property; (f) joint venture investments; and (g) other. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has his attention been drawn to comments passed by  Mr David  Rockefeller suggesting that fiscal restraint and greater international co-operation is the recipe for economic recovery? Is the Minister also aware that  Mr Rockefeller  commented on the question of opening up Australia's banking system a little? Can the Minister advise whether such a proposition is currently under consideration by the Government? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Have any approaches been made to or through the Australian Dairy Corporation by any company or organisation involved in the table spread market for information on the purchase of butter for incorporation in other spreads? If so, when were such approaches made? Have they resulted in the sale of any butter? If so, how much butter was involved? If not, why not? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
Did the Federal Government study group on structural adjustment engage the Australian Council of Social Services to carry out a pilot study on workers retrenched in the clothing trade: if so: (a) when was the survey commissioned; (b) what were the terms laid down; (c) when was the result received: (d) what was the cost of the survey; (e) was the survey satisfactory to the study group; (f) who conducted the survey, and what were the surveyor's qualifications; (g) what surveys have previously been carried out by the surveyor: (h) for how long has the surveyor been employed by the Australian Council of Social Services; (i) what was the degree of supervision provided; and (i) what was the extent of the circulation of the survey. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) How many residential allotments were developed by the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation in each year since its inception. 
How many such allotments have been: 
sold each year; 
b ) leased each year; and 
leased with houses each year. 
3 ) How many allotments were there on which: 
houses were built and sold; and 
b ) houses have been built and not yet sold. 
How many factory units of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation in each year since its inception were: 
built and sold; 
built and leased; 
built and made available for sale; and 
built and made available for lease. 
How many industries were serviced directly by the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation in each year since its inception. 
What was the population of the Albury-Wodonga region as at 30 June 1 978. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, on notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) How much retail commercial property was constructed in the Australian Capital Territory in each year from 1 973 to 1977 by: (a) the private sector; and (b) the National Capital Development Commission. 
How much retail commercial property was approved for construction by: (a) the private sector; and (b) the National Capital Development Commission, but has not yet been constructed. 
Are the rentals of properties owned by the National Capital Development Commission based on: (a) the profitability of the business; (b) the value of the property; or (c) market forces. 
Are there any population standards by which the National Capital Development Commission approves or constructs retail property. 
Is the effect on existing retail business taken into account when considering applications for approval. 
Has the construction of major retailing complexes had any effect on trading in Civic and/or suburban centres; if so: (a) what proposals does the National Capital Development Commission have for the rehabilitation of Civic; (b) will new suburban shopping centres still be provided; and (c) will any shopping areas be closed or allowed to remain closed; if so, which. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) What price was obtained for the sale of butter to Russia. 
What were: (a) the budgeted quantity of butter for export in 1 978-79; and (b) the anticipated budgeted average return on the 1978-79 export sales. 
Have these estimates now been revised, in view of the sale to Russia. 
Has any significant change developed in the supplysale pattern of other export dairy products as a result of the underwriting decisions; if so, will the changes be recommended by the Australian Dairy Corporation for the next season 's underwriting. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry ascertain whether a proposition has been put before the Minister whom he represents, or whether a proposition is pending, concerning the abolition of the existing $250 a tonne Gouda cheese premium? Is that Minister in a position to reject such a proposition, particularly having regard to, firstly, undertakings given when the Gouda industry was established in Australia; secondly, the fact that Australian sales total approximately 10,000 tonnes a year, and, thirdly, the fact that if the premium were abolished the market and credibility would disappear? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. As it has been reported that the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation has a current underwriting liability in Iran in the order of $2 5 m, will the Minister advise whether the Corporation has yet prepared a preliminary estimate of likely losses? If not, when will such an estimate be made available? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. With Australian enterprises now competing for, and successfully gaining, contracts for many large overseas development projects and with the renewed emphasis on export, will the Minister consider extending the investment allowance to include new items of machinery, plant et cetera which are used on such contracts and which are currently excluded by reason of their use outside Australia? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Press reports have stated that the British trawler  Othello  has been taken into port in Hobart by the Tasmanian Fisheries patrol vessel acting as agent for the Commonwealth Fisheries. Can the Minister advise why the  Othello  was taken into port? What is the nature of that vessel 's current charter in relation to fishing in Tasmanian or other State waters? Have any charges been made? Is the  Othello  still detained? 
-On behalf of  Senator Lewis,  I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I should like to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Comments made by  Mr Fred  Connell,  Chairman  of the Australian Fishing Industry Council, at a meeting held in Hobart recently were very critical of the Federal Government for having granted joint venture licences for squid fishing within the Tasmanian 12-mile limit. May I ask the Minister whether such approvals, if granted, are the responsibility of the Federal Minister, or whether this licence was issued at the request, recommendation or approval of the State Minister for Fisheries in Tasmania? Does the approval comply in every way with the guidelines as prepared and issued last year? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Does the Minister consider that the setting of minimum fuel consumption figures for motor vehicles sold in Australia would encourage higher standards of operational efficiency in engines manufactured and supplied, would greatly reduce fuel consumption and would reduce the need for much of the expensive fuel wasting emission control equipment which is now required or will be required as further control measures come into force soon? Is research being undertaken to improve the efficiency of these engines to decrease fuel consumption and lessen the need for much of the emission control equipment now fitted to new Australian vehicles? 
-by leave-I also knew Eric Bessell for many years. Whereas other honourable senators knew him mainly from his political involvement I knew him far more in many other ways. Because of one of the vagaries of our system I entered the Senate following the election at which he left. Eric has left a great mark in the district in which he spent all his life. He was very much a man of the community. He was involved in every local issue. In all cases he was prepared to permit himself to be used in any capacity in which he was required and to make a genuine contribution. It is in ways such as this that I certainly and I think most other Tasmanians will remember Eric Bessell. I had great regard for Eric, as I still have for his widow and his family. 
-Has the Minister for Education seen a report in the Launceston  Examiner  of 13 March 1979 under the heading 'Federal Government damaging Uni', in which the Tasmanian Minister for Education,  Mr Holgate,  is reported as saying that Federal Government financial policies were forcing damaging cuts in services offered by Tasmania's only university? Is there any truth in the claims that 33 academic positions and 15 support positions at the University of Tasmania have had to be cut this year because of the lack of Federal funds? Is it not true that the University of Tasmania and the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education have been generously provided for by the Commonwealth Government in recent years and, coupled with the development of the Australian Maritime College in Launceston, provide an excellent range of tertiary level opportunities for Tasmanians? 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment: As New Zealand has recently announced a large discovery of underwater phosphate reserves in its off-shore territorial waters, is the Minister aware that any similar reserves exist in Australian territorial waters? If not, does he propose to have exploratory tests carried out? 
-I present the eighth report from the Senate Standing Committee on Publications. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In view of the statement in the  Bulletin  of 27 March 1979 that the Trade Practices Act provides that 'when consumers buy goods that are defective, wrongly described, or unfit for use, they can seek recourse against either the seller or the manufacturer', is it a fact that in these circumstances a manufacturer would have to pay freight on the returned goods and could, as the article suggested, be liable for a taxi fare from Darwin to Melbourne? Is it correct that there is no protection for the manufacturer against the apparent lack of provision for the consumer to pack reasonably the goods returned? Is it correct that the consumer may take action against the manufacturer up to three years after discovering the alleged fault and does not have to supply proof that the damage was not caused by incorrect or careless use? If these possibilities do exist in the Act, are steps being taken to revise these loosely denned areas? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement.  I seek leave to continue my remarks. Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources been drawn to a letter in the  Australian Financial Review  entitled 'Injustice to Shareholders' and written by  Mr K.  W. A. Bridges in which the writer outlines the taxation system whereby the suppliers of all the risk capital in the Cooper Basin are receiving minimal dividends on the vast sums of risk capital invested so that consumers in the Sydney area are able to obtain subsidised gas supplies? Does the Government accept these actions as being conducive to the encouragement of further exploration and development? 
-Has the AttorneyGeneral had any investigations carried out as to the authenticity of balance sheet figures of government land instrumentalities and public companies engaged in the marketing and development of land for housing and commercial purposes, particularly in view of the massive writedown by the New South Wales Land Commission and losses by companies such as Associated Securities Ltd? Can the public at large be assured that land assets quoted by both public and private sector investors are in accordance with current value, irrespective of the dates of purchase or the prices paid? Will the AttorneyGeneral emphasise the need for correct accounting of land assets and the responsibilities of those administering public accounts? 
First and foremost, the Joint Committee on Publications has decided not to dismantle the Australian Government Publishing Service. The AGPS is a good concept. That is covered adequately in the report tabled by  Senator Missen.  It was mainly in the administrative structure of the AGPS that the Committee saw some problems. The AGPS is a semi-commercial business operation. It buys and sells publications; yet it is tied to the Department of Administrative Services as a branch of that Department. Whilst its activities have continued to grow in recent years its staff numbers have fallen, due to the imposition of staff ceilings. That has caused various reductions in the services provided. In many cases there has been a deterioration in the services provided by the AGPS, for instance, mail order services. The size and staffing of bookshops require review, while printing procurement has been centralised to departments. 
Economies of scale are possible through the operations of the AGPS but unfortunately these cannot be fully realised if the restrictions on its operations are to remain. By being tied to the Department of Administrative Services the AGPS is tied to too many Public Service procedures and restrictions. The AGPS itself has not helped this situation as to some extent it has developed in a bureaucratic manner, encouraging limited flexibility in its operations. My own experience in business is that if one is to succeed one must go out and sell. In the Committee's opinion the AGPS has not done that to a satisfactory level with its client departments or through sales to the public. The Committee is aware of many of the reasons behind this failing and has recommended that the operations of the AGPS should become more commercially oriented. If the AGPS does not become more commercially oriented there is no doubt that justification for its retention will again come under question. 
The Committee recommends that the AGPS should operate to a total trust account concept and that it should be permitted to operate in much the same way as any commercial publisher. If, by increasing staff, the AGPS can increase its real revenue, why can it not be permitted to put on more staff? Why should it not be able to react to market circumstances? If the AGPS is to survive as an entity and service agent it must be given some freedom from the restrictions imposed within the structure of the Public Service. The Committee has provided the Government with a blueprint as to how this can succeed in an efficient and responsible manner. 
In essence, the AGPS should be able to sink or swim in its own success. Because of its guaranteed custom, the Committee is confident that the AGPS will improve and grow at considerable savings to the Government and benefit to the community. To achieve this flexibility and to enable AGPS to become more commercially orientated the Committee has recommended that it become an independent arm of the Department of Administrative Services with its controller directly responsible to the Secretary of that Department. It has also recommended that an outside commercial expert be appointed to the position of controller for a three year contract to assist in converting AGPS operations to be more on a commercial footing. If these structural changes are not made to the AGPS the Committee feels that its services will continue to decline or at best stagnate and not go on to achieve the considerable aims and benefits sought by the Government in its printing and publishing program. 
I now turn to the operations of the Government Printing Office. The Commonwealth is fortunate indeed to have at its disposal a man of the calibre and experience of the present Government Printer,  Mr John  Thompson. This experience was of considerable assistance to the Committee during this inquiry. The Committee was disturbed by the discoveries it made in this area of AGPS operations. The Government Printer is responsible to AGPS for most administrative matters. He has little or no responsibility for the operations of his trust accounts, ADP personnel, purchases of stores and most importantly, input of work other than parliamentary material and some small general printing. Otherwise the Government Printer is dependent upon AGPS to provide him with sufficient work to keep his factory operating at an acceptable economic level. In recent years this has not occurred and as a result the Printing Office has made significant losses. The Committee has made recommendations designed to resolve this situation. 
The Government Printer's area of operation and responsibilities have never been laid down which I find to be an extraordinary matter. They have been established over the years by practice and ad hoc Cabinet decisions. Even his responsibilities to the Parliament are not clearly denned and while it can be assumed that he is directly responsible to the Presiding Officers for parliamentary work, administratively he is responsible to the Minister for Administrative Services through the public servant who is Secretary of that Department. The importance of the Government Printer's need for independence of action was brought home to the Committee when the Government Printer suggested that the Government's legislative program was threatened in recent times by his inability to appoint staff. Where the present arrangements have the potential to adversely affect the services which the Government Printer can supply to Parliament, the Committee feels that it is time for these arrangements to be seriously reconsidered. 
It is quite extraordinary to find that this officer is responsible for the work but does not have the ability to get it done. To formalise the Printer's responsibility so far as the Parliament is concerned, the Committee has recommended that at the commencement of each session of Parliament, a resolution be agreed to by both Houses of Parliament similar to the following: 
That the Government Printer be responsible to the Presiding Officers for the printing of all parliamentary publications and be provided with the necessary resources to meet parliamentary printing requirements. 
That, at all times, the Government Printer give priority to parliamentary work. 
The Government Printer is managing a multimillion dollar operation and the Committee can see no reason why it should not be run in the same way as State Government Printing Offices and those of his equivalents overseas. To provide efficiency, restore a flagging morale situation and to ensure that adequate resources are available to the Government Printer, the Committee feels it essential for the Government Printer to have direct and total control over all administrative matters associated with the operation of the Government Printing Office. It is for this reason that the Committee has recommended that the Government Printer be independent of the AGPS. One other matter which although not having a bearing on this recommendation but nevertheless is important to the Committee is the salary paid to our Government Printer. It is the lowest in the Commonwealth by some many thousands of dollars. Even the salary of the Northern Territory Printer is higher. When one considers the Commonwealth Government Printer's responsibilities one can only state that the situation is unacceptable and must be reviewed. 
There are a number of other areas to which I wish to quickly refer. The first of these relates to the section concerning the growth of in-house printing facilities within departments and statutory authorities. The situation is best summarised by the following quote from paragraph 9. 1 of the report. It states: 
Priming units in agencies have also increased considerably in number, size and capacity and are in some cases attempting to perform large and complex printing tasks which could be more economically done by skilled tradesmen on more suitable equipment. Greater use could be made of period and other special printing contracts developed by AGPS . . . The very existence of in-house printing equipment encourages its use (and thus generates proposals for more and better equipment) when there should be resort to the Government Printer or a commercial printer. 
In an effort to rationalise this situation, the Committee has made what it feels are acceptable recommendations. I feel sure that a fuller investigation of this matter will surely reveal some most interesting information and, hopefully, some substantial economies as well. The Committee was also most concerned over the lack of established responsibilities between the AGPS, its clients and other printing and publishing agents. A rationalisation of this situation is overdue and the Committee has recommended what it feels ought to be the appropriate responsibilities of these agents. 
Before I conclude, I would like to devote a small amount of time to the way in which the Government has dealt with previous reports of the committee. The first relates to the Committee 's Report on the delay in the Publication of Commonwealth Acts and Statutory Rules. I wish to commend the Government on its reponse in connection with this report. I and many other members of the Committee feel that the Committee's recommendations were thoroughly examined by the Government. Whilst not all were supported by the Government, its reasons for not so doing were complete and understood by the Committee. Recently the Government put down its statement in response to the Report on the Parliamentary Papers Series to which the Presiding Officers some five months previously had made a response in those areas of their responsibility. This is a statement which, I might say, was very thorough and constructive. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same of the Government's response. Generally speaking, I can only say that in many areas the response was uninformed, in others cut across the responsibility of the Presiding Officers and in others, to say the least was puzzling to myself and my fellow Committee members. Certainly the reasons for rejection of a number of recommendations were inadequate. 

 Mr President, I can only hope that the report which we are now debating receives a more thorough investigation than its predecessor. I conclude by saying that the Committee's report has been prepared on the evidence which has been placed before it. The Committee had at its disposal information, comments and conclusions of a number of government initiated inquiries into the AGPS. These, together with the Committee's experience in the field of publishing, has enabled the Committee to arrive at what it feels is an acceptable blueprint to remedy the many problems in providing efficient service to the public and the Public Service. Without appropriate action taking place, the Committee can only feel pessimistic about the future of AGPS and government publishing in general. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport advise whether a decision has been made concerning the granting of a licence to Bizjets to operate a service to the north-western Tasmanian airports of Wynyard and Devonport? If not, will the recommendation be based mainly on the submission by the Tasmanian Minister for Transport or will all factors both current and future raised by many interested people and organisations be considered fully before the final decision is made? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Finance. Speaking recently at the National Housing Convention, the Minister referred to the fact that a private secondary mortgage market and mortgage broking firms had become established. Can the Minister advise in which States such enterprises are known to operate and the approximate number of firms engaged in this business? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport advise whether or not the Government has an attitude on the possible sale of instrumentalities such as the one handling railway services? Has the Government yet been approached by Australian Wide Travel Services with a proposition showing interest in a portion of the services provided by the Australian National Railways Commission? If so, will the Government give it consideration and establish the criteria necessary to enable the proposition to be considered? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Has the Government yet considered the Industries Assistance Commission 's report on cheese? Can the Minister give an indication when the decision may be made known? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry ascertain whether the Australian firm of Mauri Brothers &amp; Thomson has made application for a joint venture fishing project in association with Polish interests, involving trawling in waters off New South Wales, South Australia and /or Victoria and Tasmania with six or eight 250-foot trawlers? Are the applicants aware that there is a current $420,000 research program for which results are still awaited? Can the Minister give an assurance that until the results of that program are complete there should be no more joint ventures in this area? 
I present the ninth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: In view of the recommendations made arising from a meeting of many interests convened by the Victorian Institute of Marine Sciences and held in Melbourne on 2 March 1979, can the Minister advise what steps the Government has taken to assist in the assessment of the need for and the type of navigation and position fixing equipment in both the waters off south-eastern Australia and other Australian waters and the method by which such aids, if required, should be funded? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In the light of recently announced modifications to the income equalisation deposits scheme, will the Minister indicate the reasons for those changes and their significance in view of the higher levels of income currently being experienced by producers in most of our major rural industries? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Earlier this session I questioned the Minister concerning the arrangements under discussion for the export of Gouda cheese. At that time an answer was not available. I would now like to know whether the question has been resolved and whether any information is available. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 1 May 1 979: 
How many persons: (a) under 18 years; (b) 18 years and under 2 1 years; and (c) 2 1 years and over, receiving unemployment benefits, had their benefits terminated by the Department during 1978. 
How many appeals by persons in each of the above categories have been: (a) lodged; and (b) upheld. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. It was recently reported that researchers of the Bureau of Mineral Resources, after 20 years of scientific study, have come up with an answer to the mysterious phenomenon relating to the changing water level of Lake George. What justification is there for the claim that the findings of the study are of great economic importance? What Federal funds were allocated to and spent on this project over the period of the study? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In response to a question in the other chamber, the Minister for Primary Industry recently advised that 54.7 per cent of the cattle population in Australia was yet to be tested for brucellosis. Can the Minister ascertain and advise whether the program of eradication is up to date? Is it still hoped to have the disease eliminated by the date set down? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of the recent claim by the Opposition spokesman on urban and regional development that housing loan finance was 'at a critical alltime low', making it extremely difficult to obtain access to home ownership? Can the Minister advise whether these claims are in accordance with the facts, and provide figures on both the level of finance available and the level of home ownership in Australia? 
by leave- I find that  Senator Georges'  comments are about in keeping with the usual standard of presentation that he produces here. He has waved a piece of paper about and made all sorts of quite ridiculous comments about it, obviously with no facts of any sort or description-- 
You have had your turn. We have had the example of  Senator Georges  choosing to use that piece of paper as a means of having yet another attack on the Minister for Science and the Environment. If  Senator Georges  is interested, and I am sure that he is not, the position is that I do have some interest in the housing affairs of the Government and I like to keep a check on what various people say from time to time about housing. I asked the question entirely on my own volition, after seeing the ridiculous comments that appeared during the weekend under  Mr Uren's  name. I compared them with the ridiculous comment that he passed two months earlier and found them to be about 180 degrees different. 
I informed the Minister that 1 intended to ask a question so that 1 would be provided with factual information on the matters in which I was interested. As  Senator Georges  knows, they way in which I verbally gave information to the Minister, advising him of the ambit of the question I was to ask, is usual for anybody who is soliciting proper information. I would not expect anybody on the Opposition side or on the Government side of the chamber to be able to obtain information of the sort I required without the Minister's having access to the question and his knowing about it. 
As  Senator Georges  knows, members of the Opposition do it. All that was said by  Senator Georges  about  Senator Webster  was totally, utterly and completely without foundation, as he knew. I am perfectly entitled to continue to obtain information when I want it. If I do not want information I do not ask a question. I do not make a practice of soliciting questions. I can always manage to produce enough questions of my own. I also take offence at what  Senator Georges  said. 

 - Mr President, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware of what is referred to as a 'staffing agreement' made in 1977 between the former Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Neilson,  and the Tasmanian Teachers Federation, in which it was agreed that 642 extra teachers were to be appointed. As letters have been written to honourable senators requesting that Federal funding be made available so that this undertaking can be met, I ask: Was the Minister a party to that undertaking? Was he consulted before it was given? Did he undertake to provide the necessary funds for the provision of the additional 642 teachers? Does he consider the additional appointments at this time to be a Federal or State responsibility? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of statements that have been made, particularly one by  Sir Reginal  Ansett that he would support the upgrading of one airport on the north-west coast of Tasmania to jet port standards, can the Minister advise, firstly, whether there has been an investigation into the prospects of such an upgrading; secondly, whether at any time there has been an estimate of cost; and, thirdly, whether, with the support of the major operators, government support could be expected? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In answer to a question on 8 May I was told that the Tasrail consortium has been advised that because of Federal and State legislation a sale cannot be negotiated. I ask the Minister not to close the issue at this point but to open discussions to ascertain whether it is possible to produce a proposition that would improve employment possibilities, increase the service and show some improvement in the current financial affairs of the railway; and then to decide whether that proposition is possible and whether new legislation may be desirable. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I have asked previously questions concerning the establishment of an Australian register of shipping. Previous answers have indicated that it is the aim of the Government to set up such a register. Accordingly, I ask: Is there any indication that progress has been made or is likely to be made? 
I bring up the tenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment will recall questions I asked last year relating to the manufacture and use of seaweed extracts. I now ask the Minister: Is he aware of recent sales and trials of the product Seasol in both Israel and Greece? If so, will he consider taking up with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation the carrying out of appropriate trials which may lead to an Australian authentication which would be desirable for Australian users and which would assist with the extension of what I believe could become an excellent export industry? 
I will be as brief as possible in my remarks. Basically, I would go along with many of the things that  Senator Walsh  said or implied in the early part of his speech. I think it is well known in this chamber that I have spoken several times on cattle disease eradication and the importance of an eradication program. There is no doubt that, as far as the cattle industry of Australia is concerned, disease eradication still is the most important single factor that has to be considered. On 30 May I got a reply from  Senator Webster  to a question that I asked on 28 May on brucellosis control. As a result of that a statement was made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on 3 1 May setting out the position in a fairly clear and conclusive form. I seek leave to have that statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The statement read as follows- 

PRIMARY INDUSTRY MEDIA RELEASE 
Statement by the Minister for Primary Industry the Rt Hon. Ian Sinclair, M P. 
CANBERRA 
31 May 1979. 
BOVINE BRUCELLOSIS AND TUBERCULOSIS ERADICATION CAMPAIGN 
The Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Ian  Sinclair, today announced that the Commonwealth Government will make available $25. 6m in 1 979-80 towards the State and Territory bovine brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns. 
Commonwealth funds for compaign operations will total $22m, an increase of 10 per cent on the provision in 1978-79. This is expected to be offset by the proceeds from the $3 per head disease eradication component of the Cattle Slaughter Levy. 
In addition the Government would provide up to $3.6m to compensate producers for cattle compulsorily slaughtered under the campaigns. The contribution to compensation is in the form of a Government grant and is not recoverable from the cattle industry. The Commonwealth contribution to the net compensation cost would be 50 per cent in the case of tuberculosis and 75 per cent in the case of brucellosis. In both cases the balance would be met from State sources. The amount provided for compensation is based on estimates made by the States of the numbers of livestock which they expect to slaughter in their campaigns this year. The amount provided for compensation is less than half the total made available in 1978-79 as expanding eradication testing operations have cleared out heavily infected areas and generally the level of reactors is less than anticipated from the original surveys of brucellosis in cattle. 
Commenting on progress so far the Minister said Tasmania has been free of the two diseases for some years. Western Australia was the most advanced of the mainland States and its efforts to eradicate brucellosis and could reach provisionally free status before the national target date if the present rate of the campaign was maintained. 
The brucellosis eradication campaign in Queensland had been highly successful. Most of the eastern half of the State is under eradication testing and by mid 1979, 20 shires in the north east should be declared provisionally free. By that time only three shires in the south west of the State would not be under eradication testing. The New South Wales eradication plans for 1979-80 would involve eradication testing of 85 per cent of the States breeding cattle and all of the State, except for 7 pasture protection districts in the central west and one in the north west, will be under eradication testing. In addition it is expected that 15 pasture protection districts in the north east of the State will be declared provisionally brucellosis free. Victoria will test 3 million cattle in 30,000 herd tests on 12,500 properties in their State wide program. South Australia will test 1 million cattle in 8,500 herd tests on 3,500 properties and all of the State south of the dog fence should be under eradication testing by 1 979-80. The Northern Territory expects to test 350,000 on approximately 150 properties and eradication activity will be intensified whenever possible. 
Concerning tuberculosis eradication,  Mr Sinclair  said that Queensland hoped to be able to declare all of the State (with the exception of 6 shires in the far west) provisionally tuberculosis free. This means that all cattle in the State except for 0.5 million in 146 herds will be within the provisionally free area. Some 600,000 cattle will be TB tested during the year. Queensland will be approaching the situation which exists in the southern States which are all declared provisionally free even though each State still has some herds in quarantine (Tasmania excepted ) and has to maintain an effective monitoring system to pick up any re-emergence of the disease. In the extensive cattle producing areas of Western Australia, South Australia and the Northern Territory tuberculosis eradication is a continuing problem and marked progress is not expected. 
Cattle numbers in Australia have come down from the peak of 33.5 million reached in 1976. I understand that the herd numbers approximate 26.8 million and, on the estimates that we are able to get at present, it appears that those numbers are likely to fall a little before it bottoms out in another year or so. I believe that the estimates for bottoming out may even be shown to be a little optimistic. There are still enough farmers in Australia with a liquidity problem which will require them to sell even more stock than is currently budgeted for. I hope that I am wrong, but I believe that we have to look at this as being a reasonable expectation. So that we can get these Bills passed as quickly as possible, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  some documents showing livestock numbers on an Australia-wide basis from 1970 to 1979, cattle numbers in Australia and in certain States and slaughtering projections from 1 974 to 1 982. 
Leave granted. 
The documents read as follows- 

<graphic href="081232197906086_68_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is interesting to note from these figures not only that cattle numbers are on the decline and likely to continue to do so, but also that until last year sheep numbers were declining very rapidly- although they showed a slight recovery in 1979- and that pig numbers are at their lowest level since 1970. Livestock numbers in Australia are now substantially lower than they have been previously. 
I give a warning about the likely results that this will have. I start with my State where the cattle numbers have dropped by almost onethird in the last four years. In this four-year period Tasmania actually has increased its killing capacity quite substantially. The effect that this will have on abattoirs, meat industry employees and associated things will be quite serious. Of course, this will be the case in other parts of Australia as well. We are now overequipped with killing space. I expect quite naturally that the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union also is likely to realise this and will inevitably apply some sort of squeeze to try to recover the loss of earnings that its members will suffer as a result of there being a lower throughput. I think that this is inevitable and that it will be one of the matters to be tested in the right place at the right time. 
This will result also in higher meat inspection costs. I am now referring again to the meat inspectors and other employees in the other half of the industry. I hope that the committee of which Bert Kelly is chairman will be capable of rationalising some of the creeping overheads in this area. While cattle numbers are down and values are high it appears that we should be able to get far more co-operation from farmers in all areas towards disease eradication. The proportional cost of mustering, which has been so high for the last four or five years, made mustering in the outback areas impossible even to contemplate. I believe that with the better prices now we should be able to expect a far greater level of mustering. I think that we have to look to this. 
Recently I was talking to one gentleman who said that during the last two or three years his stockmen occasionally rounded up a bunch of the oldest cows on his property and drove them as far out into the bush as they could to let them die in peace and cause as little trouble as possible. He has now reached the stage of hiring a helicopter to ascertain whether they all died. It is worth it to him to look for the residue of these cattle to try to convert them to money. 
Because of the change in such a short time in the value of animals much of the money which the Commonwealth Government provided to assist the industry over the last year or so was not spent to the current advantage of the farmers. I refer particularly to the contribution paid towards the spaying of females. It has turned out to be quite unfortunate. The killing figures that I have been able to get hold oflately indicate that of the total cattle kill, 50 per cent is female. On this basis it is difficult to try to increase herd numbers. Several speakers have quoted from the report of the Industries Assistance Commission so I will not bother to do so. 
I refer to two points that  Senator Walsh  endeavoured, unsuccessfully, to make. Firstly he said that it was justifiable to try to make political capital by saying that the Bill should be thrown out, on the grounds that it involves a public health and is not a meat matter. If  Senator Walsh  believes that, he is deluding himself. I tell him quite bluntly that it is very much a meat matter. Unless we get brucellosis and tuberculosis under control there will be no sale of meat. It does not matter whether it is a health matter. I respectfully suggest that to say that this is a public health matter will have no reaction at all in the place where we are selling meat. Another aspect of this matter relates to Tasmania. I have a lot of sympathy for the Tasmanians for what they have achieved over time and at great cost. I suggest to the Tasmanians, as I have done before, that we are talking about an Australian industry. It is all very well for them now to say that they feel that they should not have to contribute. But the Commonwealth Government has contributed substantially towards the eradication of brucellosis in Tasmania. There is no way that we will have an export market of Australian meat based on the fact that Tasmania is clean. It is in the interest of Tasmania as much as every other State to see that the eradication program is carried through fully. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Are the conditions applicable to the operation of the airport rent-a-car franchises identical to those quoted at the time that applications were invited and tenders called? If not, do the current conditions, particularly those concerning the transferability of licences, allow any additional benefit or flexibility to either the successful or the unsuccessful tenderers? 
I ask a further question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport concerning the matter that I raised earlier. Will the Minister ascertain from the Minister for Transport whether, during the period in which tenders for licences for airport rent-a-car franchises were invited, the Minister or his Department was approached by any operator to ascertain whether the legal meaning of the wording of the tender documents was strictly in accordance with that wording or whether it permitted a legal interpretation such as that which had been applicable under the previous franchise? If any such question was raised, will the Minister ascertain which operator or operators asked such a question and also whether at any stage all the tenderers were advised that transferability in fact could be undertaken? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
What are the quarterly employment and unemployment figures, from 1970 to 31 March 1979: (a) in the private sector; (b) in the public sector; (c) for males; and (d) for females. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has any research been carried out in Australia into zero tillage for crop growing with regard to the claims of eliminating erosion, reducing salinity, better yields and reduced fuel consumption? If not, will the Minister have the matter investigated with a view to undertaking such research? 
-On behalf of  Senator 
Lewis, I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia, respectfully showeth objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. With all restrictions now removed from the sale of houses financed under the States Grants (Housing) Act, can the Minister advise which States have made efforts to sell these houses to the current tenants and whether there has been any marked trend by any State authority to get improved use of these funds? 
I present the eleventh report of the Senate Standing Committee on Publications. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. In answer to a question yesterday I was advised that an additional $ 16 1 m was available for housing construction through the sales of existing houses and the use of revolving funds. Can the Minister advise the approximate estimated break-up between the States of the $161m, particularly the amount that is available to Tasmania? 
-This report was tabled on 20 October 1 977. The Presiding Officers' response was given on 24 November 1978 and the Government response on 28 March 1979, so it has already covered quite a span of time and has had quite some time to evolve. Some of the issues involved are somewhat complex administrative matters. I do not think it would be appropriate for me to comment on each of those tonight. But since the Committee's report on the Parliamentary Paper Series was tabled in October 1977, the Committee has made a major report on the Australian Government Publishing Service and has recently completed yet another report. Each of these touch on several of the issues raised in this inquiry in respect of which this report was put down. In particular, the role and responsibilities of the Australian Government Publishing Service and the Government Printer have been reviewed in some considerable detail. Because these issues are before the Government I will not comment further on the Government's response to recommendations 16, 17 and 18 of this particular inquiry. 
However, I do wish to comment on two other matters. Recommendation 6 of this report concerns the distribution of parliamentary publications. The Government's response indicates some concern at the cost that would result from the implementation of the Committee's recommendations on free distributions. I should like to make two comments on this. Firstly, the Presiding Officers have indicated that they will keep the free distribution list under review and if requests for inclusion on the distribution list get out of hand they will report back to the Publications Committee. Secondly, I am sure the Committee would give any such report from the Presiding Officers the most serious consideration. 
Recommendation 19 relates to the Government Printer completing the Parliamentary Paper version by enclosing the initial report with a blue cover. It was not accepted at the time. However, by arrangement this has already been done. The Government response now notes that this is unnecessary, impractical and costly. However, it has been implemented and it has been found that by being able to utilise the automated equipment that is available it has been possible to keep costs to an absolute minimum and it is much more practical. 
Finally, I would assure all honourable senators that I am sure that the Publications Committee will continue to take a very close interest in the objectives, the production methods and the distribution of the Parliamentary Paper Series, and that the actual distribution and cost will be closely monitored from the time to time. If at any stage there appears to be developing any trend that is contrary to the wishes of the Parliament, the Committee will certainly take the matter up. 
Question resolved in the affirmative.  (Quorum formed). 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction: What information does the Federal Department of Housing and Construction have on the number of dwellings built by States with funds available under Commonwealth-State arrangements and what details does it have of the sales by State housing authorities of dwellings which were built under Commonwealth-State funding arrangements? What is the source of that information? 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: What was the degree of excess to pavement overload at Wynyard Airport subsequent to the issue of Pavement Concession No. 6826 which authorised Lockheed Hercules C130H-type aircraft to operate at 49,900 kilograms at a tyre pressure of 517 kilopascals? Has either of the two major domestic airlines ever applied for, or made inquiries to operate, DC9 aircraft to and from the Devonport or Wynyard airports, either for additional scheduled operations or for use as an alternative? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Publications, I present the Committee's report relating to the Annual Reports of Commonwealth Departments and Statutory Authorities, together with the transcript of evidence and extracts from the minutes of proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The inquiry was undertaken as a result of the matter being referred to the Committee by the then Minister for the Media,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, in August 1974, at which time it was found that since 1970 there had been a considerable growth in the Commonwealth publishing program and there was a tendency by author bodies to increase the size and the content of their periodicals. It was decided that the matter should be referred to the Committee. It was found that some departments did not produce an annual report at all. There was a considerable lateness in the presentation of others, and certainly a level of extravagance by some that made it necessary that the matter should be investigated. Besides that, there were always questions of what were the difficulties which were apparent in production, and so the matter was investigated by this Committee. 
In all 103 submissions were presented. They came from a large cross section of departments and authorities, from librarians and other users of the reports, from Professor Olsson of the Australian Institute of Management, from the Australian Government Publishing Service and from the Auditor-General 's office. Evidence was then heard from a representative group of all those who had made submissions. In addition, the Committee circulated a questionnaire to all senators and members seeking their comments. This proved to be of great assistance. The Committee's principal conclusion was that all Commonwealth departments and statutory bodies should present an annual report. This is important in principle, because their presentation to the Parliament demonstrates the accountability of departments and authorities to the Parliament, and through them to the community. It is important in a practical sense because of the information the reports provide to senators and members, and to anybody who has an interest in those various departments and authorities. For instance, honourable senators will be aware that the first annual report from the Prime Minister's Department was tabled on 23 August. The Committee is encouraged by the fact that this has been done. 
The Committee has, in the production of the report, made several recommendations towards making the annual reports more useful, more timely and more economical. I will limit my comments on the recommendations at this stage, apart from saying that the two areas of greatest concern to the Committee were the problems of delays in the tabling of the reports and the question of the appropriate standards of production. 
The Committee appreciates that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has requested that production standards should be as economical as possible, and it is disappointing that this request has not been fully complied with. I would mention specifically that in the opinion of the Committee the annual report of the National Capital Development Commission for 1977-78 and that of the Pipeline Authority for 1976-77 are examples of unnecessarily expensive productions. In fact some of them are produced in the sort of glossy form which would do credit to some of the publications which are banned in Queensland. The Committee does, however, recognise that authorities which are in active competition in the market place are justified in using prestige standards of production. 
Turning to the question of delays, I noticed in the National Companies and Securities Commission Bill presented on 28 August that the Commission's annual report must be prepared not later than 3 1 October in each year. While my Committee would like reports earlier than this, the Government must be commended for defining a time limit in this legislation. To the best of my knowledge this is the first, and I commend the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  for setting this deadline and giving it the force of law. 
The important areas that were investigated were, firstly, the actual functions and importance of the reports, which I have already covered fairly well; secondly, the contents; and thirdly, standards of production. On the question of contents it was decided that there should be a statement of the legislation under which the organisation operates, the place of the authority in the 
Commonwealth administration, the responsible Minister, and so on; the functions of the organisation; the Budget allocation of the funds; the number of staff employed; a brief listing of senior officers; a simple organisation chart; the bibliographical details; a list of the publications that the Organisation produces during the period under review; contact points in the organisation, and the responses that the organisation has made to criticism by other bodies or individuals during the period. 
The standards of production have been fairly clearly laid down at various times by certain AGPS circulars, but they have never been completely adhered to, and there is no penalty or comment if they are not. The Committee believes that the preparation of this report should assist in having that done more regularly. The Committee also recommends that the simultaneous production of the parliamentary papers versions and the tabling versions should continue. This is a matter of economy. 
The Committee trusts that the report will receive full Government support, and that it will clarify many matters not currently fully clear to the departments and the authorities. I commend the report. 
-I support the Tasmanian Native Forestry Agreement Bill. I will not go into great detail in my remarks because the matter has been covered very adequately by other speakers, but I do wish to associate myself with the legislation. Tasmania depends very heavily on the timber and timber-based industries. They are very important to the State.  Senator Harradine  has spoken adequately on the research aspects. I support what he said. At the present time inadequate provision is made for research on timber throughout Australia. I believe that, with the excellent timber growing conditions which exist in Tasmania for both softwoods and hardwoods, certainly it is an appropriate place for a timber research centre dealing with the growth and treatment of timber to be located. 
In Tasmania the timber industry covers the whole of the State. It is a very great stabilising force in a non-urban State. The three great companies, Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd, Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd and Australian Newsprint Mills Ltd, are all very significant contributors to the economy of the island. The timber industry is a traditional industry. It really had its first major boom at the time of the Victorian gold rush. As a result the industry spread throughout the whole of the island and continues to do so. It is going through a period of reorganisation, like any of the older, established, traditional industries. Regrettably, often the changes are not taken very easily. There are always casualties in re-organisation and, regrettably, there will need to be a shake-up of the operators until the greatest efficiency can be achieved. 
This legislation, as part of the Callaghan packet, is appreciated very much by all thinking Tasmanians. It provides more evidence of the tie-up which exists between the Tasmanian Government and the Federal Government on matters affecting Tasmania. Last year, when we debated the allocation of funds for softwoods, I questioned the extent of that funding. I still believe that it was a reasonable proposition then to consider the different nature of softwoods and hardwoods and the extent to which different States need to participate. Of course, Tasmania has needs related to issues other than softwoods, as is demonstrated by this legislation. So do the other States. They have a variety of needs. At present Tasmania's greatest need is in the area of regenerating areas of hardwood forests. The main purpose of the funding which is the subject of this legislation is the regeneration of forest areas which have suffered devastating fires twice since 1967. The first fire was the major Tasmanian fire and this was followed about three years ago by another one which eliminated the regenerated areas around the south of Hobart and Geeveston. To date this funding has been used for that purpose. I have been into that area and have had a look at the position. With other members of the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce I made an inspection of the area and talked with all the people who are involved. We met with the Tasmanian forestry officers and the representatives of all the major companies, and I think it would be only right that I should say that the Committee was terrifically impressed by the depth and strength of the officers of the Tasmanian Forestry Department. We thank them very much for the courtesies with which they provided us and the excellent manner in which they demonstrated what they are doing. I think it is only appropriate that I should place that on the public record. 
The timber industry has changed much as a result of the changes in the national economy since I was elected to this place at the beginning of 1 976. The industry was then in a fairly rundown state. The timber processing industries were in a like state. Everything from the paper and pulp industries through to the furniture manufacturing and house building industries was in a very sorry state. In common with many other industries the timber industry was probably particularly affected. In those days the paper mill in Burnie was in a declining state, the plywood mill at Somerset was operating at about half capacity and a great number of sawmills were operating less and less. The improvement in the economy and in the value of the Australian currency to a reasonable world parity level, coupled with the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme, helped the industry to pick up tremendously. At present I think it is fair to say that the majority of the timber and timber-based industries are on an improving scale. As the result of the intention of, particularly, Australian Pulp and Paper Mill Ltd. to improve and extend its works it appears that the timber industries will regain the importance that they had. I hope that some of this money for special purposes will be used for an investigation into what are called the minor species- the indigenous pines, including the king billy pine, the huon pine and the celery top pine, and the myrtle, the sassafras and the blackwood- which are special timbers for special purposes. The terms of this legislation are certainly most favourable. I believe that anyone in Tasmania would appreciate the specially favourable terms which have been granted to the State. As a Tasmanian I would like to express my appreciation. 
Tasmania still has a changing economy. If we look back some 30 years, I suppose, we will find that the economy of Tasmania was built around dairying, apples, potatoes, wool, textiles, minerals and timber. So many of those industries have suffered the ravages of freight costs and changes of various sorts that I believe that in the 1980s we will have to look to an economy which is built around tourism, modern mining of various sorts, timber, the processing of timber and timber products, some improved primary industry, wherever possible, and, I hope, various craft industries. The latter, of course, will involve some use of these special timbers. I believe that the population of Tasmania is unlikely to change much in the next 10 to 15 years. I believe that commercial development will be fairly slow and will be centred on the couple of areas that I have mentioned. This makes concentration on these special items even more important. Accordingly, I support the legislation. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that petitions have now been lodged with the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania challenging the right of all those members of the House of Assembly declared elected following the recent State elections to take their seats? Is he also aware that, according to respected Tasmanian legal authorities, the election of most members of the House of Assembly will probably be declared null and void and, therefore, the constitutional right of the present Government to occupy the treasury benches is in serious doubt? Has the Commonwealth Government-- 
That is not so. You did not listen. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I suggest that  Senator Archer  continue his question and give the least possible information. The Minister may answer the question as he sees fit. 
Has the Commonwealth Government given any consideration to its relationship with the Government of Tasmania in the light of this extraordinary development? What protection is there for the Commonwealth if it pays over taxpayers funds to an unconstitutional government, or enters into government legislative or other agreements or arrangements - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! There is no substance in the point of order.  Senator Archer  may complete his question. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I understand that  Senator Archer  is seeking the answer from the Minister involved. The Minister may answer this question as he sees fit. 
If it has not already done so, will the Commonwealth as a matter of urgency examine the present constitutional crisis in Tasmania and its possible ramifications for the Commonwealth Government? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to reported threats of trade retaliation from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for Australia's failure to provide adequate opportunity for that country's access to the Australian fishing zone? Can the Minister advise how many applications have been made from Russian interests, whether decisions have been made and whether such applications are compatible with existing developments and other commitments? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, is on the same topic as  Senator Davidson's  question. I would like to see whether the Minister could include in the statement, or supplementary to the statement, an item showing whether there has been a schedule established, approved or considered; whether it is intended that there should be an increase in imports from developing countries; and whether it is determined that there should be a direction of these imports from existing developed countries or from Australia 's own industries? 
I present the twelfth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the policy statement published in the  Australian Foreign Affairs Record  for March 1979, can the Minister advise when the declaration of the 12-mile territorial limit for Australian coastal waters will be made? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: With the conclusion of arrangements with Japan for fishing in Australian waters upon the declaration of the 200-mile limit, could the Minister ascertain how the Australian tuna fishing interests are to be protected, in view particularly of the policy statement recorded at page 275 of the  Australian Foreign Affairs Record  of May 1 979, relative to the highly migratory species? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport advise whether the statement made by  Mr Philip  Coleman, the Executive Director of the Australian Chamber of Shipping, to the effect that foreign shipping companies have been advised to keep clear of Australian ports on account of the worsening strikes record, has been made to the Minister? What effect is the position having on Australia 's export drive? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. A report in the Hobart  Mercury  of 17 October stated that several foreign countries had offered to provide at no cost information not already available about subAntarctic fisheries. Can the Minister advise which countries to date have made these offers, when those offers were made and whether there are any strings attached to them? 
-by leave- 1 have not had the opportunity to study fully the statement incorporated in  Hansard  by  Senator Chaney.  It is important that the purpose of the exercise should be fully understood. It really can be broken up into four areas. The Joint Committee on Publications examined the matter for some considerable time. It considered that the requirements were, firstly, to meet the requirements of the Parliament as expeditiously and economically as reasonably possible; secondly, to get the best utilisation as possible of resources, both physical and mechanical; thirdly, to ensure the most reasonable and harmonious operation possible; and, fourthly, to assess the coordination that existed between the various departments and within the various areas of the bureaucracy. This inquiry continued for some time and went into all these matters very thoroughly. At this stage I would have to express some disappointment at the fact that more of the important recommendations that were made by the Committee were not accepted. 
I believe that many of these recommendations should remain under consideration and that they warrant more attention from the Government in due course. For instance, it was recommended that the operations of the Australian Government Publishing Service and the Government Printer should be separate to some extent. Whilst complete commercial independence may not be possible- it may not even be desirable- I believe  that some move towards this end would certainly add to the efficiency of both organisations. The agreement by the Government to the proposal that a charter of responsibilities be drawn up is appreciated by the Committee. I feel sure that the Committee will willingly assist in working on that project if it is called upon to do so. I seek leave to move a motion to take note of the statement. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
-In order that the Australian fishing industry and those associated with it may be as fully informed as possible, can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry undertake to raise the question of having monthly progress reports on all joint venture fishing feasibility studies summarised and included in the publication  Australian Fisheries?  I also ask the Minister whether he would agree that there is great importance at this stage in keeping the Australian industry fully informed on the progress of those investigations if it is intended that there should be an increased Australian participation in the development of the new fisheries. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport by referring to recent announcements by Trans-Australia Airlines regarding the placing of a holding deposit on four European Airbus aircraft as possible replacements for its fleet. I ask: As the noise level of the Airbus is said in some circles to be higher than that of other aircraft, will the Minister advise whether this is a fact and, if it is, whether he will take it into consideration before granting approval for the purchase of the Airbus? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry advise whether all members of the Australian Fishing Zone Committee have their travelling and accommodation costs paid by the Government when attending meetings? If not, can the Minister advise which members pay their own expenses, the reason that it was seen necessary to have them bear this cost, and the number of meetings that have been held? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
How many proposals were submitted, by the Tasmanian Department of Agriculture or other Tasmanian research organisations, for funding in the year 1979-80 under the Commonwealth Special Agricultural Research Grant, and what amount of funds were sought for each proposal. 
Today we have another extraordinary matter for discussion, which reads: 
The failure of the Government to use the Prices Justification Tribunal to control rising prices. 
Having listened to  Senator Gietzelt  go over the reasons why the Tribunal was expected to do just that,  Senator Coleman  followed by saying that that is not what it is for. I do not think that we should be debating this matter here if we are not sure what the purpose of the Prices Justification Tribunal is.  Senator Coleman  spoke at some length of profitability. Profitability was never one of the factors relating to the formation or operation of the Prices Justification Tribunal. The wording of the matter we have before us today implies two things: Firstly, that had the Government used the Prices Justification Tribunal more, prices could have been controlled; secondly, had we done what the Australian Labor Party did when in government, prices would now be lower. We do not support either of those points of view. How wrong can one be? 
For a start, the PJT was never established as a price control body. I was not a senator in the days of the introduction of the PJT legislation so I found it necessary to refer to  Hansard.  I found that  Mr Crean  was the Minister who introduced the legislation. He said: 
Before explaining the measures provided for in the Bill, I want to say something about the problem that these measures, among others, are designed to help overcome- the problem of inflation. For many years inflation has been a world-wide phenomenon. A large number of governments believe that it has now become the most formidable and most intractable problem of economic policy. 
That was the reason for the establishment of the Tribunal. Therefore we do not have to discuss any of the other odds and ends as to why the PJT was initially introduced.  Mr Crean  then enlarged on the legislation in an economic dissertation on inflation. I think we all agree that we should note what  Mr Crean  said about inflation because after all he was the expert. In introducing this Bill, as recorded on page 1888 of  Hansard  of 9 May 1973,  Mr Crean  said: 
In introducing this Bill the Government is certainly not pretending that some simple solution has been revealed to it. 
We have, it is true, learnt a good deal from experience elsewhere, and one of the most obvious lessons is that policies to contain inflation must be broad and multi-pronged. It is in this context that the present Bill must be viewed. It alone does not constitute a policy for the control of inflation. It is but one element- a very important element- in a broader strategy. 
The Government has already taken, or has foreshadowed, a number of measures to counter inflationary pressures- the revaluation of the Australian dollar, restraints on overseas borrowings, domestic monetary measures including the call to statutory reserve deposits by the Reserve Bank, and the establishment of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. In the longer-term, policies in other fields- for example, on tariffs, restrictive trade practices and consumer protection- will also have a favourable impact. 
They had an impact all right. 
The Government appreciates fully, from experience here and in other countries, that a central and essential element of an overall or anti-inflationary strategy must be effective demand management. In the longer haul the responsibility obviously is to avoid the emergence of overall excess demand, and to aim by budgetary and credit policies to hold total expenditure within the capacity of the economy. 
That is what  Mr Crean  said. It is interesting to note, of course, that from that point inflation rose from about 7 per cent to about 1 7 per cent. 
-Mr Crean clearly stated the purpose of the legislation.  Senator Gietzelt  must have missed what I read from page 1888.  Senator Gietzelt  places importance on the function of the Tribunal. I read the debates on the legislation to see what was said. I was somewhat surprised to read in the House of Representatives  Hansard  that the legislation was guillotined through with five other Bills. Not one word concerning it was said by a Government supporter. Nor was the Opposition given the opportunity to speak to it. That is how important it was: It did not even merit one word of debate on the part of even a Government or Opposition supporter. That being so, I had to refer to the Senate  Hansard.  I found that in this chamber it was extensively debated, for virtually a full day. Senators. Cotton, Webster, Guilfoyle, Hannan, Jessop, Carrick, Laucke and Kane had all spoken to it. The only thing that was extraordinary was that not one then Government supporter had anything to say in defence, justification or promulgation of the legislation either in this chamber or in the other place. That is significant. At the time  Senator Gietzelt  was a member of the Parliament. I repeat: Not one then Government supporter other than those who proposed the measure had anything to say about it. 
What we are not sure of now is whether the Australian Labor Party wants price control or not. If it is price control that it wants, I ask it please to say so- and not try to use undercover methods to get what it is after. 
-The Australian Labor Party wants price control; is that right? 
If the honourable senator will read the motion, he will find that his Party is trying to get price control by some devious method. That is what it says. 
If it is price control that Labor wants, or some effort at price control, I suggest that it considers where that got us in South Australia, where it got the Dunstan Government. Price control does not work, has not worked and will not work. All that it does is create artificial sets of circumstances that no one can live with. What we really come back to is the fact that the situation now so far as high prices are concerned probably is no different from what it was in 1973.  Senator Gietzelt  read from page 1961 of the Senate  Hansard  of 29 May 1973. I regret that he omitted to read the important preceding paragraph, which records that  Senator Webster  said: 
It is apparent from the fact that I am following another Opposition senator in speaking to the Prices Justification Bill that the supporters of the Government are not anxious to speak about this important matter. That is probably indicative of the fact that honourable senators opposite are experiencing great difficulty in advancing any reasonable comment on the Bill. I have no knowledge of any commercial expertise which exists within the ranks of the supporters of the Government- I am not being critical of them for this- which would enable them to make a reasonable comment on the Prices Justification Bill. 
The situation is probably very much the same now. Let us consider the stage that we have reached. I have great respect for many of the things that  Mr Crean  did and stood for, but in regard to some of these economic matters it is hard to rationalise. I ask: How was this Government able between, say, 1975 and 1978, to get inflation rates down and stability back into the economy? 
How will this proposal of the Labor Party solve anything? I remind the honourable senator that his Party created the Prices Justification Tribunal, presumably with a view to controlling prices at a time when the inflation rate was rising very quickly. When the present Government came to office the inflation rate was very high. I do not intend to become academic and quote rates with which the honourable senator might not agree, but the fact that this Government reduced the inflation rate during the period to 1 978 is obvious to anyone in Australia. 
You have had your turn. You made a miserable mess of it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Order! I suggest that the honourable senator direct his remarks through the Chair. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  This Government has used the PJT and has used it well. The matters that have been referred to it by the Government, including those that are under discussion at the moment, clearly demonstrate that. The PJT is thus performing a valid function, but it can do much more by keeping an eye on trends in industry generally and in particular those which relate to the cornering of markets, than it can by chasing up the price of a box of matches or seeing whether- to use the hyperbole employed by  Senator Coleman-  the price of something rises three times in a week. 
Let me return to a consideration of the nature of the Opposition's complaint. I am not sure whether  Senator Gietzelt  means to imply that the farmers, the manufacturers or the retailers are making too much, but obviously the accusation of participating in rip-offs and so on is being directed at one or all of them. However, at no stage did the honourable senator name anyone. I want to know who is doing this. I want the honourable senator to tell me. My reading of the financial pages has not revealed that anyone has suddenly begun making unreasonable profits. I have not seen any such happening reported regularly. The people who write our financial columns are not backward in drawing attention to the fact that someone is obviously skinning the public in some direction. I ask the honourable senator to name the trades, the people and the products that are concerned. It is all very well to speak in generalities, as did  Senator Coleman,  but I ask honourable members opposite to provide us with the odd fact. That is all I ask. 
Costs are high. I am not trying to deny that. For a variety of reasons, they will become higher. Those reasons include taxation, rents, insurance, wages and overheads generally. Nor am I saying that wages should or should not be treated differently from any other aspect, and I certainly will not indulge in a discussion of it; but they are all factors of importance. What I can tell honourable senators opposite is that about 15 years ago it was common in many areas of retailing for the mark-up as between the producer's price and that to the customer to amount to about 100 per cent. In many cases now that figure is between 200 and 250 per cent. This has resulted from the influence exerted by a variety of overheads. No one that I am aware of is indulging in a rip-off. In most cases business people are struggling like the devil to stay alive. Costs are high but there is no point in trying to put one's finger on a single area and say: 'That is where the profit is going.' It is not. The profit is being spread a lot more thinly. Manufacturing has expanded. Retailing has expanded. No amount of investigation by the PJT will enable it to say: 'That is where the big profit lies'- and honourable senators opposite know that. 
Almost universally the best system in operation is that of supply and demand. The retailer is getting what he can. The manufacturer is making what he can. This is exactly what  Mr Crean  proposed when he said in his concluding remarks as recorded at page 1888 of House of Representatives  Hansard  of 9 May: 
In no sense is the rationale of this Bill the wholesale replacement of the market by controls. On the contrary, it is in an important sense directed at improving the functioning of the market. 
The market is governed by supply and demand; that is what we are talking about. Not only is competition at home keeping business going. Also we now have become competitive enough to begin to sell overseas once again. If the market were subject to the whole host of mystical ripoffs of which the Opposition- without substantiation- speaks so glibly Australia would not be able to do that. When one summarises the history of the matter, one finds that the PJT is not now and has never been a price fixing organisation. The Government has used the PJT to assist it and the performance of the PJT has been good. The amendments of 1 979 have improved its capacity to move freely. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of the proposition put forward in the September 1979 edition of the  CAI News  for the Government 's establishment of overseas trade centres to assist small exporters? Will he request that the Minister give consideration to the establishment of one such centre as a trial in accordance with the  CAI News  suggestion? Will he advise the results of that consideration as soon as possible? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that a New Zealand inventor has produced and sold a device for measuring the fat cover on beef carcasses? Can the Minister advise or ascertain whether that equipment is yet in use in Australian trials on carcass classification? Will he endeavour to provide a report on the matter when it is available? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether there is any restriction that would prevent the various statutory authorities involved in primary industry from investing their reserve or operating funds with the Primary Industry Bank of Australia? Could the Minister in due course have an investigation carried out as to whether such authorities are giving the Primary Industry Bank their support and, if they are not, advise the Primary Industry Bank that it should take the necessary steps to encourage support, from those authorities in particular? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of complaints lodged with me that a major media organisation would not allow a private citizen to distribute notes of a broadcast talk on the basis that it held the copyright, and at the same time it declined to provide them, can the Minister advise whether this position is in order? If so, can changes be made to ensure that the author retains some rights, particularly if the media refuse to act in a reasonable manner? 
I bring up the 13th report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1 ) What amounts were allocated by Tasmania from Federal Housing Grants to the Home Building Account, or, as it is now known, the Home Purchase Assistance Account, in each year from 1974-75 to 1978-79. 
How many home purchasers in each of those years received assistance from that fund to purchase their homes. 
Did the Tasmanian Government in those years transfer, or use, any funds allocated to, or placed in, the Home Purchase Assistance Account for the construction of additional rental accommodation; if so, what amounts were involved, and when did any transfer of funds take place. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 29 August 1 979: 
1 ) How many houses financed under the States Grants Housing Act 1971 and previous legislation were sold during each year from 1973-74 to 1978-79. 
How much of the money thus collected has been released and re-invested in further housing. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs aware that at present the Australian clothing industry would appear to have in the order of 2,000 unfilled vacancies, both skilled and unskilled, and that some firms have had vacancies for 40 or 50 positions for some considerable time? Is he aware that at present large numbers of vacancies are being filled by IndoChinese immigrants? If it is found that existing vacancies cannot be filled by those Australians currently in receipt of unemployment benefits, would he support approval being granted for firms unable to fill positions to make overseas arrangements? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
1 ) Did the July newsletter of the Australian Conservation Foundation, an organisation in receipt of substantial funding by the Government, contain an insertion by the Movement Against Uranium Mining, and the pro-Soviet Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament, calling on conservationists to participate in the Hiroshima Day march? 
What support does the Government give to organisations such as the Australian Conservation Foundation which align themselves with pro-Soviet organisations such as the CICD? 
Estimates Committee D considered in particular the expenditure by departments and authorities on their libraries. The  Chairman, Senator Maunsell,  has asked me to move a motion to cover all the departments, not only those which were considered by Estimates Committee D. I heard  Senator Wriedt  earlier in the day speak on the same sort of matter. I move: 
That the Committee, having considered the report of Estimates Committee D, recommends that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations: Expenditure by departments and authorities on their own libraries. 
Department of Science and the Environment 
Proposed expenditure, $234,890,000. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources been drawn to a report that New Zealand is to change its export incentive program from 1 April 1 980? Is he aware that the report indicates that the incentive will be at seven different levels related to the value added content, that it will be based on net foreign exchange earnings and that it will apply to a firm's total earnings rather than only to the increases in export sales? Has the Minister investigated this proposal to establish whether it retains the present relativities between the two countries or whether it will distort the market to Australia's disadvantage, contrary to the existing arrangements? 
I bring up the 14th report of the Publications Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. On 1 8 October I asked a question relative to the sub-Antarctic fisheries and the research information available. Has any research information been made available by the eastern European countries mentioned at the time? Are further ventures or joint ventures under consideration in our southern fishing zone? What is the purpose and extent of the proposed $500,000 expenditure by the owners of Australian vessels? 
-The Homes Savings Grant Amendment Bill is fairly straightforward and it provides for the implementation of the policy decision which was announced on 25 May this year. I do not wish to go over a lot of historical information, but suffice to say that since 1964 about 130,000 families have been assisted and about $100m has been provided for the scheme. It has been successful. It has not been without weaknesses and I do not guarantee that even now it is not without some weaknesses, but it does provide assistance for those who need it. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide a value limit. I support this proposition although I recognise that the value of homes varies between States and between city and country areas and that various applicants are not treated in entirely the same way. My colleague,  Senator Kilgariff,  who represents the Northern Territory, can demonstrate the particular disadvantages of his area. I will certainly take up these matters with the responsible Minister in the form that the honourable senator has given them to me to see what can be done. 
It seems to me that we should be doing all we can to encourage people to develop the outback areas such as the area which  Senator Kilgariff  represents. I believe that this is one of the schemes that may be able to be varied in some way to provide some assistance. I completely support that proposition. As honourable senators will know, the scheme provided $20m last year and $75m this year. Whilst I was never satisfied that the Home Savings Grants Scheme was the best scheme for assisting home ownership, it certainly has a considerable amount of merit, and I support it. It is part of a much wider housing assistance operation and is only one of the things that I believe are important in the housing of people who are trying to get homes. It is directed specifically to those people who have made an effort to try to put some funds together to become home owners. It does breach the gap that exists. 
I regret that I cannot allow all of the comments that  Senator Colston  made to go by. Whilst he provided a lot of information, a considerable amount of that information was so far from being correct, and so much of it was provided in a manner that I believe demonstrated the reverse of the case he was putting, that it concerns me, if that is what he really believes the situation to be. The best comparison I can make is a comparison between the housing situation now and the situation when I came to this place in 1976. In spite of the percentages that  Senator Colston  may have cited, I did not near him compare the costs of materials now to what they were in 1974-75. 1 did not hear him compare the costs of wage rises in 1974-75 with those since. I did not hear him mention the increases in prices due to inflation then and since, nor the fact that over the last two or three years finance has become more readily and steadily available. I should add that housing interest rates have either stabilised or reduced universally, and that now we have largely overcome the over-run situation that arose in the heat of the moment, building activity is up again, as is employment in most areas- although my great regret is that it is certainly not up in Tasmania. 
Housing involves money. The private sector, which was overlooked by  Senator Colston,  provides the vast majority of funds for housing. The public sector performs only a topping-up operation. In such an operation careful thought should be given to the areas where the needs are greatest. Activity in the public sector can do either so much good or so much harm. Over a period we have seen huge volumes of money totally wasted on tying up huge areas of land in various States. In some cases, land has been tied up with no prospect of its being used within 60 or 70 years. It will never be worth what it is now worth on the accounts of those States holding it. We have to see that we get the greatest possible utilisation of the public funding that is necessary for housing. Some States absolutely refuse to get their money revolving and they tie it up in houses and land. Many more people could be housed if this money were freed and directed towards homes for purchase. We want to see as many people as possible given the opportunity to buy. We want welfare funds to go to the people who need it. We do not want to see them spent on boats, caravans and such things, as much of the money is being spent now. 
Some States recognise this and have excellent home purchase schemes for first home buyers. Western Australia and Victoria have schemes that I know particularly well, and  Senator Kilgariff  has given me details of the Northern Territory scheme, which will be of considerable assistance to people of the Territory and provide far better housing value than is available in other States. The Government wishes to make everybody independent of the Government if possible, so its tendency is to finance schemes that will get people away from being dependent on the Government. In my own State the tendency has been to make more and more people dependent and it has produced very disastrous results to both the building industry and home buyers. I wish to incorporate three tables. 
I have cleared these documents with the Opposition Whip and they will demonstrate clearly what I am talking about, if the honourable senator will restrain himself. One of these schedules shows the relative assistance provided by the States into helping occupants of government homes become home owners, and which States provide it and which do not. The second document demonstrates how the sale of houses relates to the funds  received and the relativity between the States. The third document demonstrates the effects of the policies on the numbers of people seeking government assistance in rental accommodation. I seek leave to incorporate those documents. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 


<graphic href="083232197911236_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

(Question No.  1830) 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) How many houses financed under the States Grants Housing Act 1971 and previous legislation were sold during each year from 1973-74 to 1978-79. 
How much of the money thus collected has been released and re-invested in further housing. 
The following data were supplied by the State Housing Authority in each State: 
New South Wales 
1 ) The number of houses financed from funds from the States Grants Housing Act 1971 and previous Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements which was sold during the years 1973-74 to 1978-79 is as follows:  1974-75-940; 1975-76-1,249; 1976-77-974; 1977-78-108 and 1978-79-265. 
A specific answer is not available. Part of the money collected was used for repayments of principal and interest to the Commonwealth and the remainder for purposes duly authorised by New South Wales Housing Act 1912-75 and Housing Act 1941-75, and having the approval of the State Government. The principal such purpose would be the construction of new housing for eligible applicants to the Housing Commission. 
Victoria 
1 ) The number of houses financed from funds from the States Grants Housing Act 1971 and the previous Commonwealth/State Housing Agreements which was sold during the years 1973-74 to 1978-79 is as follows:  1974-75-1,484; 1975-76-1,160; 1976-77-1,520; 1977-78-933 and 1978-79-538. 
A specific answer is not available. In general, as the great majority of houses sold were on a terms basis, such additional funds that were generated would have been reinvested in housing. 
Queensland 
1 ) The number of houses financed from funds from the States Grants Housing Act 1971 and previous Commonwealth/State Housing Agreements which was sold during the years 1 973-74 to 1978-79 is as follows:  1974-75-1,305; 1975-76-591; 1976-77-779; 1977-78-573 and 1978-79-330. 
All monies returned were re-used on welfare housing. 
South Australia 
1 ) The total number of rental houses sold by the South Australia Housing Trust during the years 1973-74 to 1978-79 is as follows:  1974-75-129; 1975-76-142; 1976-77-126; 1977-78-126 and 1978-79-134. 
In supplying this information the Trust was not able to distinguish readily between dwellings financed under the States Grants Housing Act 1971 or previous Commonwealth-State Agreements and those financed under other arrangements. 
A specific answer is not available. It is the policy of the South Australian Housing Trust to re-invest monies received from the sale of rental houses into its building program. 
Western Australia 
The number of houses financed under the States Grants Housing Act 1971 and previous Commonwealth/State Housing Agreements which was sold during the years 1973-74 to 1978-79 is as follows:  1974-75-364; 1975-76-608; 1976-77-733; 1977-78-103 and 1978-79-72. 
All monies so collected were re-invested in further housing. 
Tasmania 
1 ) The number of houses financed from funds from the States Grants Housing Act 1971 and previous Commonwealth/State Housing Agreements which was sold during the years 1973-74 to 1978-79 is as follows: 
1974-75-44; 1975-76-15; 1976-77-3; 1977-78-2 
and 1978-79-7. 
All funds received were re-invested in housing. 

<graphic href="083232197911236_34_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911236_34_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911236_35_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="083232197911236_35_11.jpg"></graphic>

-The tables I have incorporated clearly demonstrate that the States whose policies involve home ownership and which do help people certainly have reduced their assistance waiting lists most. Tasmania, with the poorest record of home ownership assistance, also has the poorest record in waiting list reductions. The Bill does assist those modestly saving to become home owners and, if supplemented by the private sector and appropriate Government policies, will be an overall improvement where improvement is most desirable. I support the Bill. 
Sitting suspended from  1.2  to  2.15  p.m. 
I take this opportunity to bring to the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  the facts concerning a legal action wrongly initiated against a club on King Island in Bass Strait. The club concerned, namely, the King Island Soldiers and Citizens Club, which has been incorporated under the name King Island Club Incorporated, was sued in error by Scott Bonnar Ltd of Adelaide for non-payment for a grass mower. 
In 1978 the manager of the club,  Mr Bill  Anthony, was served with a summons issued out of a South Australian court claiming the price of the mower. When the local policeman served the summons  Mr Anthony  told him that his club had not purchased a mower and that it was not a debt incurred by that club. He told the policeman that the debt may have been incurred by one of a number of other clubs on the island. The policeman then apparently made some inquiries before returning the summons to the solicitors concerned and advised that a distinct and separate club- the Golf and Bowling Club- had been involved in the purchase of the mower concerned. Despite the advice of the policeman, the summons was again forwarded to the King Island police station with instructions to serve on  Mr Anthony,  as public officer of the King Island Club Incorporated. This was done according to instructions. 
Although King Island has a population of 3,000 it has no resident solicitor. It was necessary for  Mr Anthony  to send the summons to Messrs Shields, Heritage, Stackhouse and Martin, solicitors, of Launceston with instructions to take the appropriate action to defend the summons. That firm then had to instruct an Adelaide firm of solicitors to act as agents to defend the action. The club's defence was successful but costs of only $9 were awarded against Scott Bonnar. A bill of $2 1 7.30 was received from the club 's solicitors  for services rendered by the Launceston and Adelaide firms. 
So here we have the incredible position of a totally innocent, non-profit making soldiers and citizens club having to pay out $2 17.30 to prove that it had been wrongly sued. I am told the club has also been listed in the Dunn and Broadstreet gazette as a defaulting purchaser. I have not checked that personally. My colleague the honourable member for Braddon and Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom),  at the request of the club, brought the facts of the case to the attention of  Mr Rapson,  General Manager and Director of Scott Bonnar, but all he received from  Mr Rapson  were rude and offensive replies. Obviously  Mr Rapson  had not bothered to check the facts of the case and refused to accept that the company had acted irresponsibly or, in fact, had done anything wrong. 
I seek to incorporate in  Hansard,  relevant correspondence for the information of honourable senators, including a letter dated 17 January 1979 from the Secretary-Manager of the club,  Mr Anthony;  letters dated 9 February 1979, 9 April 1979 and 9 June 1979 from the honourable member for Braddon; and letters dated 28 March 1979 and 28 June 1979 from Scott Bonnar Ltd. 
There are two matters which deserve the attention of the Senate. Firstly, it seems wrong that an innocent party can be mistakenly named as a defendant, incur costs of $2 1 7.30 to prove its innocence, and then have absolutely no redress of any kind. I ask the Attorney-General to give careful consideration to that issue to see whether something can be done to overcome it. Secondly, I believe it is important for the Senate to be made aware of the poor attitude of Scott Bonnar Ltd, which in this case caused the problem through its neglect or carelessness and surprisingly is not prepared to express any regret or concern at the action it has taken. I seek leave to incorporate the correspondence. 
I sought the approval of the Opposition Whip and obtained it. I have shown the correspondence to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  and obtained his approval. 
Leave granted. 

 The letters read as follows- 

KING ISLAND CLUB INC. 
Netherby Road, Currie 17 January 1979 

 Mr Ray Groom, M.H.R., 75 Wilson Street, Burnie, Tasmana 7320 
Dear  Sir, 
Some 18 months ago, Scott Bonner of Adelaide served a summons on this Club for non payment for a grass mower. 
When the Police served the summons I advised that it was not a debt incurred by this club, but in fact should have been served on the golf and bowling club. 
I am advised by the police that they returned the summons and advised that the summons should be addressed to the golf and bowling club. 
The summons was returned to the King Island police with instructions to serve upon W. Anthony, Public Officer of the King Island Club. This was done. 
At no stage did this club ever purchase or contemplate the purchase of a mower. 
I forwarded the summons to Shields, Heritage, Stackhouse and Martin, and instructed them to sort the problem out. 
I believed we were listed in Dunn and Bradstreet which is not the best form of advertising in business. 
Instructions were forwarded to an Adelaide solicitor to act on our behalf. 
We have now received an account from Shields, Heritage, Stackhouse and Martin for $217.30 for costs. They have explained that costs were not awarded against Scott Bonner and there is nothing that can be done to recover this money. 
My Committee have requested me to write and solicit your aid in this matter. It seems ridiculous that we be forced to pay money for goods and services that were never authorised or required. 
Regards, 
ANTHONY 
Office of Ray Groom, M.P. 
Member for Braddon 
Minister for Housing and Construction 9 February 1979 
Dear  Mr Rapson, 
I am writing to you in my capacity as the Federal member for Braddon with a special plea on behalf of a constituent body the King Island Club Incorporated. 
I am advised that your solicitors recently issued a summons in error naming the King Island Club as the defendant in an action to recover the cost of a mower. The manager of the club,  Mr Anthony  explained to the policeman serving the summons that it was a mistake and that it was probably another club on the island. The policeman apparently checked with your solicitors and was told he must proceed to serve the summons on  Mr Anthony  as the authorised officer of the King Island Club Incorporated. This was done. The Club instructed solicitors to defend the summons and the action was later dismissed. The action apparently should have been against a quite distinct and separate organisation on the island. 
The King Island Club Incorporated, a non profitmaking ritizens'club now has to pay a bill of $217.30 for legal costs. Their solicitors say that only $9 costs were awarded against Scott Bonnar in the Adelaide court. 
I am told the club had also been listed in the Dunn and Bradstreet Gazette as a defaulting purchaser. 
It seems very unfortunate that a club like this should become involved in the action initiated by your company and incur considerable expense to prove their innocence. Your solicitor's error was apparently the cause of the problem and the expense. 
I would be most grateful if you could look into this matter. 
Thanking you. 
Yours sincerely, 
RAY GROOM Member for Braddon 

 Mr S. Rapson, Managing Director, Scott Bonnar Pty Ltd, Holland Street, Thebarton503l 
Minister for Housing and Construction 9 April 1979 
Dear  Mr. Rapson, 
I refer to the reply signed by Miss Lyall of your company to my letter of the 9th February. 
I wrote what I considered to be a courteous letter pointing out to you the problems confronting an aggrieved constituent who had been wrongly sued by your company's agent. 
The reply I received was plainly offensive and does no credit to the good reputation of your company. 
Yours sincerely, 
J. GROOM 

 Mr. S. Rapson, Managing Directo , Scott Bonnar Pty. Ltd., Holland Street, Thebarton.503 1 9 June 1979 
Dear  Mr Rapson, 
I refer to your letter to me of 28th June. 
I find your letter to be quite unsatisfactory in its content and tone. You have made little effort to understand the points I have been putting to you. 
The simple fact is that the King Island Club Incorporated, which is a non profit making soldiers and citizens club, has never purchased any equipment from your Company. Your Company wrongly and carelessly instituted proceedings against this Club. King Island has a population of some 3,000 people and several clubs. My enquiries reveal that another club, the King Island Golf and Bowling Club, a quite separate and distinct organisation, did purchase a mower from King Island Dairy Products Ltd. That Company was paid the price of the mower. 
Your Company has obviously sued the wrong Club and has caused it to incur a debt of $2 17.30. As I said in my earlier letter, I find it surprising that your Company would not at least express its regret at the action it has taken. 
A Senate colleague intends raising the case in the Federal Parliament during the forthcoming Budget Session. 
Yours sincerely, 
J. GROOM 

 Mr. Rapson, Managing Director, Scott Bonnar Limited, 33 to 47 Holland Street, Thebarton. S.A. 5031 28th March, 1979 

 Mr. R. Groom, M.P., 
P.O. Box 7 12, Burnie,Tas., 7320 
Dear  Sir, 
Reference is hereby made to your letter to  Mr. S.  Rapson concerning legal fees incurred by the King Island Club Incorporated. 
In your letter, received by us on the 9th February, 1979, you state that you were advised that a summons was "recently" issued against the Club. We have checked with our solicitors and wish to advise that the summons was not issued "recently" but some time in the first half of 1977. Upon the discovery that a different club was involved the proceedings were transferred against three named individuals from the other club which was not incorporated. 
Our solicitors advise that the proceedings against the King Island Club Inc. were quite short and did not involve any costs. The proceedings against the three individuals were, however, of more substance and involved some argument at Court. The legal costs of $217.30 against which we were ordered to pay $9.00 were the result of the second action and not, we repeat, not in respect of the King Island Club Inc. 
The question of costs was argued at length before a Magistrate in the Local Court of Adelaide and he found that we were only legally liable to pay $9.00 and not the vastly larger sum claimed by the three defendants. 
In view of the above information, and the substantial losses already incurred by us through the failure of legal action to recover the debt, we wish to advise that we intend to stand by the Court's decision and will not therefore be making any voluntary payments of additional legal expenses to the King Island Club Inc. or anyone else. 
Yours faithfully, 
SCOTT BONNAR LIMITED 
LYALL (Miss) 
CREDIT MANAGER-Head Office 
SCOTT BONNAR LIMITED 
28th June, 1979 

 Mr R. Groom M.H.R., 75 Wilson Street, Burnie Tas. 7320 
Dear  Mr Groom, 
With reference to your letter of 21st June regarding the situation with the King Island Club. 
Since receiving your letter I have checked back through correspondence and there would seem to be a misunderstanding as to the true situation on King Island. You have made no mention of the fact that we have supplied in excess of $5,000 worth of equipment to which we have received no payment at all. 
On checking with our solicitors they assure me there was no cost to be incurred by the King Island Club at all as the initial hearing was quite short and they were not involved in any costs. There were costs amounting to $217.30 allocated by the court to the 3 representatives of the Club that were involved with the proceedings and as the Court ruled that they were to pay this amount it is surprising that you are suggesting the decision of the Court should be reversed and that we be asked to pay this amount. 
In reviewing all correspondence it was indicated to me that there was little intention of ever paying for this equipment and while you believe the Club may well have been disadvantaged through the proceedings the fact still remains that they are in possession and still operating over $5,000 worth of this Company's equipment to which we have received no payment at all. 
Yours sincerely, 
SCOTT BONNAR LIMITED 
(S. M. Rapson 
General Manager/Director 
