
 - Mr Speaker, your statement is correct, if I may say so with respect. I understand that there is pending in the Supreme Court of Victoria a libel action in which  Mr Burchett  is suing a journalist - I think it is a  Mr Denis  Warner - and the Melbourne 'Herald' in respect of publications in that newspaper concerning  Mr Burchett. 
I will answer the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition in this way: I do not propose to give any opinion as to whether  Mr Burchett  has broken any law of the Commonwealth. What I will say, however, is that I, as the principal law officer of the Crown, do not propose, as at present advised, to bring any charges against him in respect of- 
I note the kindly interest of the honourable member for Lalor in  Mr Burchett,  and no doubt the public will be interested to note it. I do not propose to bring any charges. It is proper that I should say that in answer to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. 
My attention has been drawn to certain newspaper reports of remarks attributed to the Leader of the Opposition while he was in New Guinea. I commence my substantive answer by saying first that justice is not and never should be a cloistered virtue. The processes of the law should always be subject to legitimate criticism; but a dividing line has to be drawn between legitimate criticism and criticism that passes the boundaries of what is legitimate. If the remarks attributed in these reports to the Leader of the Opposition were in fact made by him I would have no hesitation in characterising those remarks as far beyond the bounds of legitimate criticism of the courts in New Guinea. If, as was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 12th January 1970, the honourable gentleman said that there was a policy of 'glaring race discrimination in law in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea' I say for my part that I know of no warrant for such a charge and that such a charge is utterly mischievous as well as being untrue. 
If the honourable member for Oxley will contain his restless spirit in patience I will come to that matter. It was reported in the Papua and New Guinea Post Courier' of 9th January 1970 that the Leader of the Opposition made a comparison between two cases tried in Rabaul. One, which had not been tried at the time the remarks were allegedly made, related to a European patrol officer charged with an offence of accidentally wounding a native boy. If the honourable gentleman used a comparison of that case with a case involving some indigenous inhabitants who had been charged with violence as a basis for saying that a difference in treatment between the two cases represented discrimination, all I can say is that the remarks of the senior magistrate in Rabaul are a complete refutation of the charge of discrimination made by the honourable gentleman. 
Yes,I have. 
I would imagine that on reflection the honourable gentleman, if he had his time over again, would think before making such unfounded and untrue allegations. Allegations of this kind are all the more apt to be mischievous when they are made about the administration of justice in an emerging nation - a nation we all want to see emerge to independence and full nationhood. The people in such a country as the Territory of Papua and New Guinea are, one would perhaps take leave to say, quite erroneously inclined to attach great weight to utterances made by a gentleman occupying the position of the Leader of the Opposition, particularly when that gentleman is a lawyer and one of  Her  Majesty's counsel. The fact of the honourable gentleman's position accentuates the mischievousness of the remarks attributed to him, if they were made by him as reported. The magistrate in Rabaul has repelled the allegation and I for one would very much prefer to accept the magistrate's refutation of the remarks attributed to the Leader of the Opposition. I table the document asked for by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I am aware that the first report of the Eggleston Committee into company law has not been released. The decision concerning its non-release was taken before I assumed office. I may say that for my part I have not specifically considered the question of whether the time is now ripe for it to be released. I shall certainly have inquiries made into the matter and consider it for myself. I should say that as a matter of necessity I would have to consult with my fellow Attorneys in the States. 
Yes, I appreciate that. I would ask the honourable gentleman to leave the matter wilh me and I will look into it with expedition. 
 I think I should start what 1 want to say by paying a tribute to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  for putting the case that he wanted to put to the House with forbearance and restraint.  His  words seem to have been spoken a long time ago because, since the honourable member spoke, there has been injected into the proceedings of this House a great deal of thunder and heat and a great deal of laughter. The honourable member for Reid started off to discuss what he regards as a serious subject, with some sincerity and an element of seriousness in his approach to it. 
I propose tonight to confined myself to answering the specific question put to me by the honourable member and repealed by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  The specific question is this and only this: Assume for the purpose of the question that the allegations made in this House about the man Burchett are true. That is the assumption upon which the question is based, so I make it for the purpose of answering the question. The question goes like this: 'Why then do you not put this man up on a charge of treason?' Let me try to explain to the House in the short time available to me precisely why not. The law of the Commonwealth, the law made by this Parliament for the safety- 
1 will come to that in a moment. The honourable member has a wonderful way of leading with his chin. The law made by this Parliament for the safety and the maintenance of the Constitution and the government of the country - I am not referring to the government of the country in terms of the Executive who sit on the front bench here, but the government in the wider sense - is the Commonwealth Crimes Act 1940-60. That Act defines what for the purposes of Commonwealth law is the offence of treason. The Commonwealth Crimes Act, which creates the offence of treason and the allied but lesser offence of treachery, bad no extra territorial operation whatsoever as it stood in 1950 or 1951 when the Korean War was in progress and as it continued to progress during 1952 and 1953. I think I can underline this point by quoting to the House a speech made by a very distinguished predecessor of mine,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, when he was introducing amendments to the Commonwealth Crimes Act in 1960.  Mr Speaker,  I quote from Hansard of the House of Representatives, dated 8th September I960, page 1027: 
.  Mr Speaker,  let me remind the House that the present provisions of section 24 of the Crimes Act,- 
That being the treason section:  found in Part II, limit treason to the instigation within Australia or any of its Territories of  a  foreigner to make an armed invasion of Australia or any part of the Queen's dominions, or the assistance in Australia, by any means, of any public enemy. 
Those words are quite explicit and I adopt them for myself as being a completely accurate statement as to how the law - the Commonwealth's taw - as to treason stood during the years when the Korean War was in progress. So making the assumption that I am asked to make for the purpose of answering the specific question put to me very plainly and very clearly by the two honourable members to whom I have referred, the answer simply is this: that Burchett could not now be indicted in respect of anything he did in Korea in those years because as the law then stood anything he did in Korea, however treacherous, or traitorous or disloyal or indecent it may have been, was not an offence against Commonwealth law as it then stood. 
Now let me come forward to 1960. I think I should say this so that honourable members on the Opposition side of the House might take stock and consider anew whether some of the things that have been said - and I except the honourable member for Reid for he put a very plain question to me - might not smack slightly of insincerity in the light of what happened in 1960 when the Commonwealth Crimes Act was amended. The House ought to be reminded,  Mr Speaker,  that in 1960, when my predecessor .  Sir Garfield  Barwick introduced amendments to the Commonwealth Crimes Act so as to give that Act, in all its sections, including the sections relating to treason and treachery, an extra-territorial operation, honourable members who then formed the Opposition - of course many of them have gone - the Australian Labor Party, opposed the amendments, including those relating to the extraterritorial1 operation, tooth and nail, lock stock and barrel. 
But the point  1  am making is one which nobody will deny and I am sure the honourable member for Hindmarsh will not deny it. It is that the Labor Party opposed the amendment which was proposed and passed to give the treason provisions of the Act an extra-territorial operation. I think I have said enough to the House. I have been asked a specific question upon a specific assumption, which I have accepted for the purpose of answering the question, and I say that it is just not possible. However much decent thinking Australians may view with revulsion what this man did or may have done during the Korean war, the plain fact is that the reach of the criminal law does not extend out to get him. 
I ask for leave to make a statement. 
A prosecution for the offence of treason under the Crimes Act does not depend upon the existence of a declared war; it does, however, depend upon there being an enemy proclaimed by a proclamation issued by the Governor-General. The question that the honourable gentleman has raised does involve a very general question of legislative policy. I am bound to say that the requirement as to the existence of a proclaimed enemy was introduced into the Crimes Act in 1960. There being a question of policy involved, all I can properly undertake to do is to take the matter into consideration and let the honourable member know in due course what my decision is. 
1 have read the newspaper article to which the honourable gentleman refers. I think the article was published this morning. In answer to the honourable gentleman's specific question I say no, I have not yet ordered an inquiry and I have not yet had time to take the matter under my consideration. 
I have, of course, read with interest the newspaper reports of the judgment of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox. That judgment was given in relation to a section of the New South Wales Crimes Act in its application to the Australian Capital Territory which is, as the Leader of the Opposition correctly points out, different in substance from the proposed, I think, section 135 of the draft criminal code. The honourable gentleman asks me whether I have formed any intention to persevere with the draft section relating to fingerprinting and photographing which was proposed by the Law Council of Austalia. I can only say that the whole question of the precise formulation of the provisions of the draft criminal code is still under consideration. We are still considering representations from interested bodies, including the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory which has yet, I think, to present a full report to us. I do not propose to bind myself in any way by stating my intention now because, in truth, I have not yet formulated one. However, I shall, of course, take into account the views expressed by  His  Honour in his judgment before I make up my mind as to what I shall advise the Government in relation to the particular proposed section of the draft code. 
 Mr Speaker,  tonight honourable members on both sides of the House have invoked my assistance on questions of law. May I be permitted the wistful thought that my opinions are perhaps not so valuable in pecuniary terms as they were at one time? But be that as it may. I was interested in one remark by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and I am sure you also were,  Sir. He  said he found difficulty in being defiiant. I have never before seen him labouring under that difficulty. Perhaps you have not done so either,  Sir. 
I propose to deal in, I hope, a reasonable dispassionate manner with the various questions put to me. Firstly, not necessarily by any means in order of importance, may I refer to the questions posed to me by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)?  The honourable member put this to me: Why, if proof of the offence of treason, as defined in section 24 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act, requires as one of the ingredients in the proof that the war should be a proclaimed war, does the Government not amend the law so as to abolish that requirement? That, in truth, I hasten to say, is a matter of legislative policy which would require consideration, if any amendment were to be made, by members of the Government other than myself. It does not lie solely within my jurisdiction to alter the law. 
However, let me put to the House one simple thought: Let us suppose that the Government were to seek to amend the law so as to abolish the requirement for the purposes of the offence of treason that the war should be a proclaimed war. I wonder,  Sir, how  the honourable member for Grayndler would vote? He and his entire Party, unless I judge its members amiss, would vote to retain ingredient in the offence. T think the simple proposition which I have just put to the House serves to demonstrate - and I say this with friendly respect - that the honourable member for Grayndler is the most artful exponent of the art of shedding crocodile tears that this House has ever seen. 
I come now to the matters raised by the honourable member for Reid before I deal with the points to which the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  referred. The honourable member for Reid asked me to tell the House why I have not, up to the present time, taken any steps to enforce the fines imposed on people who pleaded guilty to publishing, or allegedly publishing, the statement in defiance of the National Service Act. 
I listened to the honourable member with attention and without interrupting. I hope he will pay me the same compliment. All I want to say about the committee in defiance of the National Service Act is that proceedings are pending in the Supreme Court of New South Wales, in the court of appeal, in which the Commonwealth is an intervening party. In those proceedings one of the prosecutors against people who allegedly signed the statement in defiance of the National Service Act is seeking a writ of mandamus against the  Clerk  of Petty Sessions requiring him to issue warrants for the committal of the defendants to prison. As I say, the Commonwealth is intervening in those proceedings by leave of the court of appeal. I think the House will accept my assurance that for me to open up this question at this present time would infringe most seriously upon a very important rule, and that is that in this House no-one should canvass the merits, one way or another, of litigation which remains sub judice. The honourable member for Reid, I hope, will accept my assurance that were I to do so I would be trespassing against that rule and opening up matters which should not be opened up until the court has given its decision. 
The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  and the honourable member for La Trobe each asked me about the mutiny resolution passed in Melbourne. Undoubtedly the resolution was published which, in its natural meaning, amounted to an incitement to mutiny. I confirm precisely what the honourable member for North Sydney put to me. The terms of that resolution reflected no credit upon those who were responsible for its publication. But i am going to be dispassionate, I am not going to go over that ground. The action by these people has been roundly condemned In terms upon which I could not improve. As a law officer of the Crown it is my task to approach in a calm fashion the question whether people should be prosecuted for alleged offences, fastening upon the principles of law involved, bearing in mind that as AttorneyGeneral I have a discretion whether to prosecute, and that that discretion is to be exercised on clearly settled grounds. 
The first question is whether there is prima facie evidence of an offence. However, that is only one of the questions that is relevant to the exercise of my discretion. I have to consider not only that bare question but the further question of whether, upon the whole of the information available to me as a result of the inquiries I made in this case and in the case of Roebuck, a prosecution would be likely to succeed. That is a very important consideration for any law officer of the Crown to take into account before he decides whether to prosecute for an offence. I have exercised my discretion. It is a discretion, of course, for which I am answerable to this House and I readily accept the fact that I am answerable to this House for it. But I say this, and I say it without any hesitation, that after the most careful examination based upon very full inquiries which were made into the case of the mutiny resolution, I concluded, as a law officer of the Crown, that it was not a case in which I should regard it as proper to prosecute. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  asks me whether I have thought about altering the law. These thoughts do not altogether escape one, I can assure the honourable gentleman. I think the honourable gentleman will recognise the plain reality of life, and that is that I am one member of the Government and I am sure that he will give mc credit for not having allowed the thought to escape me. 1 was proposing to deal, as I thought it proper to deal, with the specific questions raised by the honourable member for La Trobe. I gave the whole question of the mutiny very anxious consideration. So did my senior advisers, including the SolicitorGeneral. The Solicitor-General and I considered the matter independently and, independently o!f each other, came to the same conclusion, namely that in all the circumstances disclosed as the result of inquiries it was not fi case in which it was proper to prosecute. 
It is sad that after 3 years we have that squeak again in the House. The note upon which I propose to conclude is this: I hope the House will give me credit for having considered the matter anxiously and fully. I do not propose to say any more. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It gives me considerable pleasure to move that this Bill be now read a second time. I am glad that the first Bill that I should introduce in this House deals - and deals in a very important way - not only with the structure of my Department but also with the essential work of the Parliament. 
Since assuming office as AttorneyGeneral I have given, and am still giving, close consideration to the question whether the organisation of my Department is as well adapted as it should be to the efficient discharge of its many functions in an era when the work of a law officer brings him more and more into daily touch with every aspect of government. I am disposed to think that changes in the present departmental structure may be advantageous; but time has not permitted me to formulate detailed conclusions as to all the changes that may be warranted. The Government has decided, however, that it should proceed with the changes proposed in this Bill as a matter of some urgency. 
This is a Bill which directly or indirectly affects the work of each member of the Parliament. I hope that it will be supported on both sides of this House as a measure that is designed to make a substantial contribution to the efficiency of the Parliament as a legislative body. I should like to say that the problems which this Bill is intended to solve have been a matter of serious concern to my two immediate predecessors in the office of Attorney-General. I am grateful to them for the advice and encouragement they have given me as a newcomer to office in devising an attempt to overcome some of the problems concerning legislative drafting. The enactment of laws is the principal purpose of parliamentary government; and effective legislation is basic to the working of this form of government, in which, irrespective of party affiliation, we as members of the Parliament all properly take a great pride. 
In recent years, the expansion of Commonwealth interests and activities in various fields of national consequence has required an ever increasing output of legislation. The complexity of the subject matters of Commonwealth legislation has inevitably produced a tendency for Acts of Parliament to become increasingly intricate. It goes without saying that legislative drafting must be of a high standard of competence. Unless it is, there wilt always be a risk that the policy objectives of the Government of the day may not be attained. Further, and in my view very importantly, members of the public whose activities are affected by legislation are entitled to expect that they will not have to become involved in expensive litigation to clear up doubtful points of statutory interpretation. I have no doubt that the drafting of Commonwealth legislation is of the required standard of competence. But for some time past the price of maintaining this standard has been an accelerating accumulation of arrears of work. 
The number of Acts passed each year by the Parliament has substantially increased over the last 20 years. This increase is shown in the following table: 

<graphic href="966131197003125_35_0.jpg"></graphic>

This increase in numbers does not tell the whole story because, as I have indicated, Commonwealth legislation is becoming increasingly complicated. By way of example, legislation in the tax field to close loopholes or to provide concessions - for example under the recent drought bonds scheme - legislation for superannuation, for defence forces retirement benefits and for regulating trade practices is most intricate and has demanded a great deal of time and attention from the few experienced draftsmen available. 1 have referred to the arrears of legislative drafting work. I am satisfied that the main reason for the existence of these arrears is the great difficulty experienced in recruiting sufficient competent and experienced draftsmen, or people who are capable, with training, of becoming competent draftsmen, lt has been found impossible to fill many positions in the Drafting Division of my Department. There is now a serious shortage of younger officers. In 10 years time nearly all the present senior draftsmen will have retired. If things remain as they are there will be no chance of fully replacing them. 
The difficulty of obtaining suitable draftsmen is aggravated by the fact that their work is not generally regarded in the legal profession as an attractive field in which to practise. It is particularly onerous and exacting work; it entails a large measure of responsibility; it has none of the glamour of heavy practice at the Bar; it is 'back-room' work. Few lawyers have a natural preference for drafting and it will not ordinarily attract a sufficient number of suitable practitioners from other fields of legal work unless a career in parliamentary drafting is given a status such as will counterbalance what is thought to be its lack of appeal. 
To my mind, this lack of appeal is apparent rather than real. The work of a parliamentary draftsman offers a real challenge to a lawyer: He is involved in the essential processes of government: be has to perform the exacting task of translating what are at times the broadly and even loosely expressed ideas of practising politicians into legislation that will stand the scrutiny of the courts. In a nation blessed - as I believe we are - with a federal constitution this is seldom an easy task, for in this life, few blessings are unmixed. 
For some years past the shortage of parliamentary draftsmen - indeed the shortage of people to do the whole range of the legal work of Government - has been aggravated by the prosperous conditions of private legal practice. I do not think, however, that this condition is by any means the only reason why it has been difficult to recruit sufficient numbers of draftsmen to do the work of parliamentary government. The work requires special abilities that cannot in all cases be acquired by training or experience. Even those who are highly skilled and successful in other fields of legal work may fail as draftsmen. Professor Reed Dickerson, Professor of Law at Indiana University in the United Stales of America, who is the author of two books on legislative drafting and numerous articles on the subject has written: 
Legal  drafting ... is a highly technical discipline, the most rigorous form of writing outside mathematics. Few lawyers have the special combination of skills, aptitudes and temperament necessary for a competent draftsman. 
Experience in Australia and overseas has shown that drafting abilities are not likely to be developed unless the person concerned has a first-class knowledge of the law; in the Commonwealth field, constitutional law is especially important. Experience has also shown that it is highly desirable that a person undertaking legislative drafting work should first have had some experience in general legal work, lt is the unanimous view of all persons experienced in this field that, to teach people the art of drafting, many years of practical training are necessary and that there is no complete substitute for the apprentice' system. The real problem consists in finding and obtaining those suitable to be taught and in retaining them. This problem is not likely to be solved unless persons of ability who contemplate the possibility of a career in legislative drafting can see ahead of them adequate remuneration throughout that career, whether or not they reach the top of the pyramid. 
The present conditions of employment of Commonwealth draftsmen are not calculated to solve this problem. In the United Kingdom, by way of contrast, recruits of the right calibre have been and are still being attracted, but the conditions of employment there are superior to those hitherto offered by the Commonwealth. For example, the salaries in the Parliamentary Counsel's Office in the United Kingdom are above those of corresponding levels in the general legal service of the United Kingdom Government and are among the highest in the British Civil Service: the First Parliamentary Counsel is treated in the United Kingdom as the head of a government department. 
On the other hand, in Australia, the salary of the Parliamentary Draftsman, although at the top level of the Second Division of the Public Service, is below that of all Permanent Heads and below that of the holders of many statutory offices, including, for example, the Commissioner of Trade Practices and the Public Service Arbitrator. The lower relative position of the Parliamentary Draftsman is reflected in the salaries of his staff. When the position of Parliamentary Draftsman was created in 1947 as a separate office, its salary was greater than that of many Permanent Heads. But in 1 957 salaries were re-arranged so that those of Permanent Heads fell into 2 levels only and no Second Division officer was paid as much as the lower level of Permanent Heads. 
The problem of obtaining and retaining suitable recruits to this field of work is not solely a financial one. Another aspect of status has its place. In the United Kingdom the parliamentary draftsmen are styled Parliamentary Counsel and appear to enjoy a rather higher standing in the legal profession than do their opposite members or numbers in Commonwealth and State service in Australia. There is  a  certain cachet in the description of  a  draftsman  as  counsel; and when it is borne in mind that his work is much more important and intricate than that done by most of the practising Bar, the description is well justified. I think therefore that we should follow suit here, that is, follow the example of the 
United Kingdom. To do so, I should add, will also bring us into Une with Canada, New Zealand and some States of the United States of America. 
Some mention should be made of the history of the senior positions in my Department additional to what 1 have already said. For many years the Secretary to the Department . was also the Parliamentary Draftsman and, incidentally, SolicitorGeneral. The offices of Solicitor-General and Parliamentary Draftsman are now filled separately but, as honourable members know, the Solicitor-General holds a statutory office remunerated at upper Permanent Head level - that is, the level of the Permanent Head of my Department - while the Parliamentary Draftsman, as I said earlier, holds a Second Division Public Service office in my Department subordinate to the Permanent Head. However, the Parliamentary Draftsman, although still under the head of the Department in a formal sense, has come to occupy a position of some independence and, in practice, is now only nominally responsible to the head of the Department in relation to professional work. In this field, the Parliamentary Draftsman usually deals directly with the Attorney-General, other Ministers and the heads of other Departments and also has other responsibilities in his own right, such as those to the Legislation Committee of the Cabinet. It is therefore no longer appropriate that he should be an officer of my Department. 
The Government has accordingly decided that the role of the Parliamentary Draftsman should be defined by statute; that there should be established an organisation of appropriate status and with sufficient resources to meet the increasing demands for Commonwealth legislative drafting; and that this organisation should be placed under the direct control of an officer designated as First Parliamentary Counsel who will be subject to the general direction of the Attorney-General. The title 'Parliamentary Counsel' is thought by the Government to be a more appropriate recognition of the important functions and status of the persons concerned. 
In view of the amount of individual responsibility necessarily involved in legislative drafting and in matters associated with its introduction into and passage through Parliament, the Bill provides for the First Parliamentary Counsel to have two deputies, each of whom is to be designated a Second Parliamentary Counsel. These three officers will hold statutory appointments for terms of years. In addition, the Office will have a staff appointed or employed under the Public Service Act, and clause 16(a) of the Bill provides for the First Parliamentary Counsel to have, in relation to the officers in that staff, the powers of a Permanent Head of a Department under the Public Service Act. The creation of appropriate offices for the staff will be a matter for the Public Service Board in the light of this Act and in consultation with the First Parliamentary Counsel. 
The functions of the Office are set out in detail in clause 3. These functions cover all forms of legislative drafting. This includes, in addition to Bills for this Parliament, Ordinances for the Territories other than Papua and New Guinea and regulations and other forms of subordinate legislation, lt is proposed that one of the functions of the office will be to undertake in appropriate cases the drafting of instruments that are to have or be given the force of law or are otherwise related to legislation. Another function will be to make arrangements for the printing and reprinting of the laws of the Commonwealth and its Territories. 
Clause 4 of the Bill provides for appointments to the three statutory positions to be made by the Governor-General and for an appointee to be a legal practitioner of not less than 5 years' standing. Clause 5 provides for these officers to be appointed for periods not exceeding 7 years but to be eligible for reappointment. This clause also prevents an appointment extending beyondthe time when the appointee attains the age of 65 years. Clause 6 provides for the three statutory officers to be paid salary and allowances as determined by the GovernorGeneral. Other provisions usual for statutory offices are included in clauses 7 to 15. 
It is apparent from this Bill that the Government recognises the importance to our parliamentary system of adequate arrangements for legislative drafting. The Government also recognises the need for a long term approach to the matter rather than a resort to short term expedients. I am confident that the establishment, of the office of Parliamentary Counsel as provided for in this Bill will prove to be a most worthwhile and justified step. I do not pretend that this Bill, when enacted, will provide an immediate solution to the problems connected with legislative drafting. I am satisfied, however, that without this measure we shall not be able to begin the important task of solving these great problems. And they are problems which must be solved if we are to improve our performance as a Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
My attention has been directed to statements attributed to my honourable and learned friend. I cannot vouch for the fact that he did make them but the reports indicate that he stated that when in New Guinea he was under surveillance by Security. This allegation would be more serious than it is if the honourable and learned gentleman of late had not been playing rather fast and loose with the truth in relation to certain matters connected with his trip to New Guinea, but coming from the Leader of the Opposition the allegation is nevertheless serious and I propose to deal with it even though it involves breaking a rule which should only be broken in particular circumstances, namely, that I as the Minister responsible for the Security Service should not in general either confirm or deny allegations made concerning that service. However, as the Leader of the Opposition is said to have made these allegations I say here and now that I have made inquiries as to the matters alleged or said to have been alleged, and they are quite unfounded and quite untrue. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question is that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation does have a lawful function to perform in the Territory, as one would expect, because it is within its charter. As to the second part of the question, if the honourable gentleman is referring, as I take it he is, to the fact that I gave an unqualified denial to the allegations attributed to him, let me assure the House that before I gave that denial to statements which I notice that the honourable gentleman has not denied making I consulted with my colleague, the Minister for External Territories. The honourable gentlemen on the front bench of the Opposition, who are interjecting, seem to be very toey this afternoon. 1 can understand that they have good reason for being toey, because the Leader of the Opposition has chosen not to deny making allegations which I have no hesitation in characterising as utterly untruthful. The Leader of the Opposition should know that the answer I gave to the question earlier this afternoon had the unqualified support and corroboration of my colleague, the Minister for External Territories. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
Under the Local Courts Ordinance 1941- 1965, section 84,  a  Judge or a Magistrate may allow a person to sue or defend  as a  poor person in a case where he considers  it  necessary for the attainment of justice. A person allowed to sue or defend as a poor person is not liable to pay any Court or bailiff's fees - see rale 33 of the Local Court Rules. 
Under the Poor Persons Legal Assistance Ordinance 1935, any person committed for trial for an indictable offence against the laws of the Territory may apply to the Judge for legal aid. If the Judge is of the opinion that the applicant is without adequate means to provide for his own defence, he  is  to certify to that effect to the Administrator, who may, if he thinks fit, make arrangements for the defence of the accused person by counsel or solicitor, and for the payment of the expenses of all material witnesses. 
Under the Rules of the Supreme Court, Order 19, any person may be admitted to sue or defend as a poor person and have counsel or solicitor, or both, assigned to him by the Court on proof that he is not worth One hundred and fifty dollars, his wearing apparel and the subject-matter of the cause or matter only excepted. 
Under the Social Welfare Ordinance 1964- 1969, section 10, the Director of Social Welfare may provide to persons who in his opinion are socially or economically in need of assistance such legal assistance as in the Director's opinion may be necessary or appropriate. 
The only means test specified is that contained in Order 19 of the Rules of the Supreme Court- see the answer to part (1) of this question. 
I am aware of the fact that certain members of the committee of the Peace in Vietnam movement have become disenchanted and have resigned from that committee for the reasons indicated by the honourable member. Speaking for myself, and bearing in mind that all but 13 members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party have committed themselves in support of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign, I can only say that the assessment made by the dissident members of the committee of the Campaign for Peace in Vietnam movement probably is pretty well founded. It is a body, having regard to the support it draws from the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party, which would be a very unpredictable body indeed. 
I would answer the honourable member's question in this way: Except in relation to Commonwealth Territories, the primary responsibility in a matter such as this would rest with the States. It would not be within the competence of this Parliament to introduce legislation on an Australia wide basis of the type to which the honourable gentleman refers. I shall discuss' with my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, the possibility of legislation of this kind being introduced in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, and I will let the honourable member know after S have had those discussions. 
The Government does accept in substance all the recommendations of the committee that was headed by  Mr Justice  Manning, and it is proposed in the current sessional period to introduce legislation which was foreshadowed in the Governor-General's Speech. This legislation will introduce the most substantial of the proposals recommended by  Mr Justice  Manning's committee. The main proposal which will be implemented by the proposed Bill will be one to do away with the necessity for the endorsement of order cheques paid into the account of the payee designated in the cheque. Consequential amendments are to follow that main proposal. The Bill proposed to be introduced will also remedy an anomaly which has been thought to exist for some time in section 88 of the Bills of Exchange Act. 
The Bill will extend to uncrossed cheques the protection presently extended to bankers in relation to crossed cheques. Other proposals will be carried into effect by the proposed Bill, but as I say, they are mainly of a consequential character. The other point raised in the honourable gentleman's question is whether the proposed Bill will be one, as it were, which stands on its own feet as a separate Cheques Bill or whether on the other hand it will be in the nature of an amendment to the Bills of Exchange Act. This matter has received a considerable amount of attention on the part of the Parliamentary Draftsman. I am in a position to inform the House that the Draftsman's view on consideration is that the measure will be best introduced by way of amendments to the Bills of Exchange Act. 
 I compliment the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  on having made his maiden speech. I am sure that we shall all look forward to hearing from him again in future. I listened with attention to what the honourable gentleman said. However, I am confronted with a difficulty in meeting his principal request, which is that I carry out some investigation or cause some investigation to be carried out into the activities of the company, the name of which he mentioned. I. must confess that I am confronted with an initial difficulty and that I do not quite see a way round it at the moment. The difficulty is that the company, according to the facts stated by the honourable gentleman is not registered in the Australian Capital Territory or in any other Commonwealth territory. That really ties my hands. Let me be careful to say to the House that I am not expressing any view whatsoever, because it would be wrong for me to do so, as to the validity or otherwise of the allegations that have been made in the newspapers about this company or about the allegations that the honourable gentleman has made tonight. It would not be proper for me to canvass the merits of the matter. As I see the position, however, the company not being registered in the Australian Capital Territory or in the Northern Territory, I would have difficulty almost amounting to impossibility in doing anything about the matter. However, I will consider the matter when I read the Hansard report of the honourable member's speech tomorrow and let him know if I change my mind. I do not think I shall. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.18  a.m.  (Thursday) 
I present for the information of honourable members the first, third and fourth interim reports of the Company Law Advisory Committee. I should mention that the second interim report of the Committee was presented by my predecessor in May 1969. I seek leave to make a short statement concerning the reports. 
I am afraid that the answer I propose to give to the honourable and learned gentleman will not satisfy his thirst for information because I am not in the habit and do not propose to fall into the habit of commenting on rumours circulated in the Press. 
I think I should begin my answer by commending the honourable member for his engaging frankness. But to put the matter briefly, this whole question is under my consideration. It is a very large question and I shall make up my mind about this proposal, or about what I may recommend concerning it, in the light of existing circumstances, which are not altogether the same as they were in 1968 when the Bill to which the honourable member refers was introduced. This question does touch a matter of policy and beyond saying it is under my consideration I do not propose to say anything else. 
 The answerto the honourable members question is as follows: 
$1,461.31. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 24th September 1969 the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State AttorneysGeneral has met in the following places on the dates indicated: 
Adelaide- 11 th and 12th December 1969 Wellington, New Zealand - 27th February 1970. 
and (3) It would be inconsistent with the confidential nature of the discussions of the Standing Committee to provide a complete list of the matters considered by the Committee. The present position of the matters listed in my predecessor's answer of 24th September 1969 (other than matters appearing from that answer to have been completed or removed from the agenda) and of matters considered by the Standing Committee since that date is shown in the list set. out below. Items numbered 1, 2, 3, 6 and 7 were considered at one or both of the above-mentioned meetings. 
 Mr Speaker,  I rise to support your ruling. In so doing I want to say something about the contribution made to this debate by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  I regret to say that on this occasion he departed from the high standards of debate that we have come to expect of him in this House. I was particularly sorry, if I may say so, to hear the honourable member, who has long been a member of this House and who was a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees, express a threat that if Opposition members on some future occasion felt that they had been unfairly treated they would not hesitate to resort to conduct such as we witnessed last night, and it was conduct of a disgraceful kind. I could expect those words to be uttered by other Opposition members - propriety prevents me from naming them - but I would not have expected to hear them coming from the honourable member for Lang. The other point which caused me regret when I listened to his words- 
If I may say so,  Mr Speaker,  I will bear in mind your suggestion. I wish to say only this before I come to some other aspect of the remarks of my honourable friend from Lang. The contrition that he expressed for the events last night was, if I may say so, rather less than an act of perfect contrition because it was tempered by that threat, and a most regrettable threat it was. 
Well, other people do not think so, you know. The proposition that has been put by honourable members on the other side of the House in moving dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  stripped to its bones, amounts to this: The Opposition invokes the provisions of the relevant standing order which prescribes that an amendment must be relevant to the motion which it is designed to amend; and, having invoked the relevant standing order, the Opposition adopts as the principle for interpreting it this argument: That the motion is construed as a piece of English standing by itself in a perfect vaccum devoid of any reference to the surrounding circumstances, including, of course, the very circumstances that give rise or are alleged to give rise to the motion - in this case a motion of censure. 
This is the type of argument that I use towards courts of appeal, not common jurors like you. Then, so the argument runs, we go to the amendment and we construe the amendment in the same technical, unreal way. The point thai  1  wish to make that is this is an erroneous approach to the interpretation of the standing rule. lt is erroneous in point of principle because what one must ask in considering the question of whether the amendment falls within standing order  173  is whether there is a sufficient identity of circumstances, common both to the motion and to the amendment. That is the test to apply. It is the test enunciated in May's 'Parliamentary Practice'. The relevant rule - it is not,  1  think, a standing order in the United Kingdom but it is a rule derived from long practice - is to the very same effect as our standing order. This expresses the point in the same words - that there must be a relevancy between the two things, the motion and the amendment. The honourable member for Lang said to the House this afternoon - and this was the starting point of his argument - that the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition had nothing to do with the events or the alleged events in this House last night. 
Oh, yes, he did, as the honourable member would know if he listened carefully. That was the proposition. He said that the attitude adopted to my colleague, the Minister for Labour and 
National Service, was not founded on anything that the honourable gentleman did last night. 
Well, I am prepared to accept the word 'based' because it is the same in sense and meaning as the word founded'. I use the word 'founded'. The point that I wish to make - and make as well as I can - is that when the Leader of the Opposition led for his Party on this censure motion this afternoon, he devoted - leaving aside the spiteful and catty parts of his speech, the flourishes that we have come to expect from him in the course of parliamentary debate, and taking out that fustian stuff - not less than half of the time that he spent discussing the motion substantially to criticising the conduct in this House last night of my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service - or, should I say, more accurately, the alleged conduct in this House last night of my colleague. The point that he sought to make - failed miserably to make, I may mention in passing - was that it was the Minister for Labour and National Service who was responsible for what happened last night. 
Of course, the motivation behind the censure motion moved against the Minister for Labour and National Service is easy to see. It is a pathetic attempt on the part of the Opposition to divert attention from its own disgraceful conduct last night and to try to fasten the blame on the Government.  1  mention that- 
1 was seeking to establish a point and, to do so, I thought that it was relevant to examine in passing the motivation behind the Opposition's censure motion. What I wish to go on to say is that the amendment poses for the consideration of the House in truth this question: Who was responsible for the disgraceful behaviour of the Opposition, that is, the contravention on the part of the Opposition last night of all accepted norms of parliamentary behaviour? Was it the Minister who is now under censure or the Opposition as an organised body of near anarchists led into the battle by its Leader? If that does not constitute- 
I thought that I was coming to the point on the point of order. 
AM points, if they are to be well come to, require a little preliminary work. 
I am obliged to you for your indulgence. I merely say that what I have sought to point out - and I think I have done so to the satisfaction at least of some honourable members of the House, those on this side - is that the circumstances giving rise to the motion are identical with the circumstances giving rise to the amendment. If anything establishes relevancy, that does. Therefore,  Mr Speaker,  your ruling deserves to be supported by this House. 
by leave - For some time past certain people have been planning a series of events called the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign, which are to be held on 8th, 9th and 10th May. I propose to state the objectives of the Campaign, to identify its origins, to analyse the methods of operation advocated by its promoters or likely to be developed, and to comment upon those methods. I hope that what I say will be borne in mind by persons who, up to now, have sponsored or supported the Campaign. I hope that this statement may induce those persons to reconsider their support and to withdraw from the position they have taken up. I hope also that what I say will be heeded by people in places of political influence who, by virtue of that influence, may be able to persuade others not to embark upon or persist in a course of conduct calculated to damage the great interest we all have in maintaining a stable democratic society ruled by law. Further I hope that my remarks will be borne in mind by people who, not yet having made up their minds about the Campaign, may be assisted to do so by an exposure of the relevant facts. 
The stated aims of the promoters of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign are to secure the withdrawal of Australian and all other foreign troops from Vietnam and the repeal of the National Service Act. The origins of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign are not difficult to trace. The description 'Moratorium' is essentially deceptive. It originated in the United States of America, where certain people conceived the idea that a series of nationwide strikes, increasing progressively in length by 1 day a month, should be organised to protest against the Vietnam war. These people, not lacking in ingenuity and aiming to attract as much support as possible from the community at large by creating the impression amongst decent-thinking people that violence or disruption had no place in their plans, thought that a word such as 'strike' carried overtones too radical for their purpose. They hoped by the use of the word 'Moratorium' to create an impression of lawfulness and respectability. They announced a Moratorium on business as usual' but their intention, as subsequent events showed, was to provoke strikes and other disruptive activity for avowedly political purposes. The Vietnam Moratorium Campaign' in the United States provided the inspiration for the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign in Australia. 
On 25th November 1969, the Reverend A. J. Lloyd, Secretary of the Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament, Victoria, acting on behalf of that body, convened a 'national consultation' of peace movement representatives in Canberra. According to certain literature published for the Congress this meeting was arranged to plan a major, national 'end the war' project for early in the New Year. The literature to which I have referred reported that the meeting was attended by twelve Labor senators of this Parliament, and that it was resolved to organise a nationally co-ordinated Vietnam moratorium campaign'. A national co-ordinating committee and provisional State convenors were elected at the meeting held on 25th November. On the following day, a spokesman held a Press conference in the course of which he announced that 68 Federal members and senators had headed the list of public sponsorship of the project. 
The origins of the Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament, Victoria, ought to be publicised. It is the continuing organisation of the Australian and New Zealand Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament which had operated under that name in Victoria from 1959. The Victorian section of the CICD was constituted at a meeting held in Melbourne in May 1967. The circumstances of its foundation make it quite clear that it was the intention of its founders that the basic policy pursued by the Australian and New Zealand Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament and its related organisations since 1959 should remain unchanged. 
It has long been well known that the Australian and New Zealand Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament is in effect the creature of the international Communist-front organisation known as the 'World Peace Council'. The nature and extent of the relationship between these organisations is amply detailed in statements made in this House by my last two predecessors in office on 3rd September 1964 and 4th May 1968. I shall not repeat those details here. It suffices to remind the House of one fact clearly made out in those statements: This fact, which is as true today as when those statements were made, is that the founding and the activities of such a body as the Australian and New Zealand Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament were part of a well known and widely practised Communist tactic. That tactic is to invest with an aura of respectability activities designed to promote Communist ascendancy, by the process of persuading well-known people to lend their prestige and their support to unworthy causes that, by a process of calculated deception, are made to appear worthy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)I am aware that  Mr Romeyko  has on several occasions written letters to the Commonwealth Attorney-General and others concerning litigation to which he has been a party. 
The High Court Rules make provision for a person whose financial resources are below a certain standard, with the leave of the Court, to proceed in that Court as a poor person. In such a case no court fees are payable, and the Court may assign counsel or a solicitor to assist him without fee. I am not able to say whether  Mr Romeyko's  resources are such that he may qualify for assistance in this fashion.  His  letter dated 27th August 1969 did not give any details of his financial position. 
It may be that  Mr Romeyko  is eligible for legal aid in the Slate where he resides. Whether or not legal aid would be granted would depend on the provisions of the relevant State legislation or scheme. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time 
This Bill is designed to give effect under Australian law to the Tokyo Convention on offences and other acts committed on board international aircraft and to approve the accession by Australia to the Convention. This Convention was prepared at a diplomatic conference held in Tokyo in 1963 under the auspices of the International' Civil Aviation Organisation. The terms of the Convention provide that it should come into force when ratified by 12 signatory States. Australia is not a signatory. The Convention is, however, open to accession by non-signatories, and this Bill when enacted will provide the necessary legal basis for Australia to accede. The Government intends that the formal steps to accede to the Convention will be taken as soon as the Bill is passed. 
It will be convenient to deal first with the main provisions of the Convention, the English text of which is contained in the schedule to the Bill. For practical purposes, the application of the Convention is confined to civil aircraft, registered in a contracting State, while engaged in international flights. It will be noted that the Convention is expressed not to apply to aircraft used in military, customs or police activities. Next, the Convention enunciates the principle that the state in which an aircraft is registered has jurisdiction over offences committed on board the aircraft while in flight; in other words, it establishes a flag law for aircraft. States other than the state of registration may not interfere with an aircraft in flight in order to exercise criminal jurisdiction, except in the cases set out in Article 4. The cases set out in that Article which seem most likely to be of practical significance are offences against the security of the state wishing to exercise jurisdiction, offences committed by or against a national of that state, and offences against the regulations in force in that state relating to the flight or manoeuvre of aircraft. The Convention then deals, in Chapter III, with the power of the commander of an aircraft in flight to deal with persons committing, or about to commit, offences or acts on board the aircraft likely to endanger the safety of the aircraft, or of persons or property on it. Article 6 empowers the commander to take whatever reasonable steps are necessary in the circumstances to restrain offending conduct. That article authorises the commander to require assistance of the crew and to request, but not require, the assistance of passengers in enforcing reasonable preventive measures. 
Where measures have been taken against a person on board, the commander is empowered to disembark or deliver that person to the competent authorities of the state. The commander is also required to report to those authorities the reasons for the disembarkation or delivery. Complementary powers and duties in respect of persons so dealt with are conferred on contracting states by Chapter V of the Convention. I propose to deal with the manner in which these powers are to be exercised and duties performed in the Commonwealth and its Territories when discussing the substantive clauses of the Bill. The Convention also provides that the aircraft commander, a crew member, a passenger, the owner or operator of the aircraft shall not be legally liable for anything done in execution of the powers conferred by the Convention. This immunity extends only to acts reasonably done in the execution of such powers. The Convention also deals, to a limited extent, with the consequences of an unlawful seizure of an aircraft - a 'hijacking' as it is commonly called. For the first time there is imposed on the contracting states a positive obligation to restore control of a hijacked aircraft to its lawful commander or to preserve his control of the aircraft as the case may be. Each state undertakes to permit passengers and crew to continue their journey as soon as practicable and to return the aircraft and its cargo to the persons entitled to possession of it. 
As honourable members will be aware, there is already some Commonwealth legislation relating to offences on aircraft. I refer to the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963. That Act establishes Commonwealth jurisdiction over aircraft registered in Australia when engaged in interstate and international Rights. The Act provides the penal law - namely, the criminal law of the Australian Capital Territory - that is to apply on aircraft registered in Australia and on foreign aircraft within Australia or, in some cases, in areas adjacent to Australia. The Crimes (Aircraft) Act also creates offences of hijacking and of destroying an aircraft. That Act. however, does not give all the powers required by the Tokyo Convention nor does it provide for the inquiries required by the Convention. These matters are specifically dealt with in this Bill. 
Clause 5 of the Bill provides for approval to be given for Australia to accede to the Tokyo Convention. Clause 6 will give the force of law in Australia to the provisions of Chapter III and of paragraph I of Article 16 of the Convention. As 1 have indicated, the provisions of Chapter III of the Convention confer on the commander of an aircraft power to take reasonable measures against persons on board who endanger the safety of his aircraft or of persons aboard, or who interfere with good order and discipline aboard, and powers to deal with such persons after landing. Paragraph 1 of Article 16 provides that offences on aircraft are to be treated as if they had been committeed not only in the place in which they have occurred but also in the territory of the state of registration of the aircraft. 
By clause 7 of the Bill a person authorised by the Minister is empowered to take into custody a person delivered to him by an aircraft commander where, in the opinion of the aircraft commander, there are reasonable grounds for believing that the person has committed on board the aircraft an act which was a serious offence according to the penal law of the state of registration. That clause also requires that the person taken into custody be brought before a magistrate as soon as practicable to be dealt with in the manner provided in clause 1 3 of the Bill. 
Clause 8 confers authority on persons authorised by the Minister to take such action as is necessary to restore a hijacked aircraft to the control of its lawful commander and enables a person who has committed or has attempted to commit an act of interference, seizure, or other wrongful exercise of control of an aircraft in flight, to be taken into custody and brought before a magistrate as soon as practicable to bc dealt with in the manner provided in clause 13 of the Bill. The procedure to be followed by a magistrate in a preliminary inquiry in accordance with article 13 of the Convention is set out in clause 10 of the Bill. The inquiry prescribed by article 13 of the Convention is an inquiry into the facts surrounding either the hijacking of an aircraft or the delivery by an aircraft commander of a person who has committed a serious offence against the penal law of the state of registration of the aircraft. The preliminary inquiry will be initiated by a notice in writing by the Minister or a person authorised by him, authorising a magistrate to hold the inquiry. The record of the inquiry is to be sent to the Attorney-General. Provisions are contained in clauses 3 and 18 of the Bill for arrangements tei be made by the Governor-General with the Governor of a State for the performance by magistrates of the State of the functions of a magistrate under the Bill. 
Clause 11 of the Bill enables the deportation procedures of the Migration Act to be used in respect of persons who have been 'delivered' or 'disembarked' by an aircraft commander or who have been involved in an illegal seizure of an aircraft in flight. The application of the Migration Act for the purposes of deportation has been used as a means of giving effect to the power contained in article 14 of the Convention of 'returning' persons who have been delivered' or 'disembarked' by an aircraft commander or who have been involved in illegal seizure of an aircraft in flight. The manner in which a magistrate is to deal with a person taken into custody under clause 7 of the Bill (that is, a 'delivered' person within the wording of the Bill) or under clause 8 (a person involved in illegal seizure of an aircraft) is regulated by the provisions of clause 13 of the Bill. Clause 13 provides the necessary machinery to enable those persons who have been taken into custody and against .whom criminal proceedings or extradition proceedings or deportation proceedings are contemplated to be retained in custody or on bail under the authority of a magistrate. 
An important safeguard is provided in clause 16 of the Bill for a person who has been taken into custody pursuant to the provisions of clauses 7 and 8 of the Bill. Clause 16 enables the Supreme Court of the State or Territory where a person has been in custody for not less than 2 months from the date that his remand in custody commenced or the date of a decision of a Court in respect of an application for a writ of habeas corpus, whichever is the later, to order his release unless reasonable cause is shown for the delay in prosecuting proceedings against him. 
Clauses 9 and .17 of the Bill deal with the conditions and the treatment of persons held in custody pursuant to the provisions of the Bill. These clauses also deal with the retaking of a person who escapes from lawful custody and with the transfer of persons in custody from one place of confinement to another. Clauses 15 and 19 are evidentiary provisions designed to facilitate proof of certain matters of fact that may be relevant in proceedings associated with the performance of Australia's obligations under the Convention. A regulation making power is provided in clause 20 of the Bill. It enables regulations to be made for the purpose of giving effect to the Bill or the Convention. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
I remember quite well the situation which gave rise to the first question which was asked of me as a Minister by a Government member. I remember the substance of the answers, or the answer l gave. I remember the statement which was tabled. It was a statement by  Mr Quinlivan,  Stipendiary Magistrate. I also have seen the newspaper report of the judgment of the Supreme Court judge to whom the Leader of the Opposition referred. 
No, in fact I do not. The honourable member is very toey this morning. It is a pity that he did not come on television the other day and debate with me. But I shall call for or ask my colleague the Minister for External Territories to call for a copy of the judgment. The Leader of the Opposition has stimulated my interest in the matter and I shall read it. I shall .then consider whether it would be appropriate or inappropriate to take the course that my honourable and learned friend has suggested. I will give it due consideration. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no provision in the companies legislation of the States and Territories fixing a maximum term of office for directors of public companies. However, section 121 of the respective State and Territory Acts and Ordinances contains provisions relating to the continuance in office as directors of public companies of persons over the age of 72 years. 

 - Mr Speaker, my attention has been drawn to the newspaper reports to which the honourable member referred. My answer to the substantive questions asked by him are as follows: The police force for which I am ministerially responsible, although it is naturally interested in the Biggs affair, has no legal power to compel any newspaper proprietor to divulge information about this matter. Naturally, I imagine that police investigations will be made into the reports which have appeared in 1 newspaper. The newspaper proprietor concerned may or may not bc in a position to divulge relevant information and if he is in such a position may or may nol do so. But he cannot be made to do so. This Government has no power to impound any money that may have been paid to Biggs or to somebody in trust for Biggs or his children. The power just does not exist. 
in reply - If I may say so, this has been a good night for Parliament because it is one of the relatively rare occasions - and they are quite happy events when they occur - upon which members on both sides have been able to agree in substance upon a legislative measure. But while agreeing with it in substance they have at the same time, in thoughtful and carefully prepared speeches, made a number of constructive suggestions which will not go unnoticed as far as 1 am concerned. 
I want to be relatively brief, indeed, very brief, in my reply on this Bill because the hour is late. But there are a few points with which I think I ought to deal. Firstly, I want to thank those honourable members who have been kind enough - and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was the first one - to compliment me on this my first Bill. If I may reply to that I would do so in this way: While I thank them very deeply for the nice things they have said this evening I should say that the compliment is in truth due to the Government, because when I was asked to take office by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  he impressed upon me that one of his first concerns- 
Debate interrupted. 
 The amendments proposed by the Leader of the Opposition are acceptable to the Government. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have seen in the 'Canberra Times' this morning the report containing allegations of that charac. ter. I have no hesitation whatsoever in characterising them as unfounded and as reflecting little credit on the person who is reported to have made them. I think that the House ought to know the true facts since an untrue statement has been made. 
The true facts, which I put before the House in answer to the question, are these: When  Mr Hermes,  a gentleman who has given very good service to this community not only as a magistrate but also in connection with other public activities, had it in mind to consider offering himself as a parliamentary candidate or a candidate for pre-selection, he had discussions with the  Deputy  Secretary of my Department - and very properly had discussions which he sought himself - concerning the procedures which might have to be adopted if he should go ahead with his decision to offer himself as a candidate. 
In the course of those discussions, very properly and very naturally,  Mr Hermes  raised with the  Deputy  Secretary of my Department the fact that there were certain outstanding cases in which judgment had been reserved. One of those cases involved charges against somebody said to have taken part in a political demonstration directed against the United States Embassy late last year.  Mr Hermes,  having, as I should tell the House, set 27th April as the date for delivering judgment in that case, had to consider what he would do about this judgment: Would he bring forward the date of giving judgment or would he decide, on the other hand, that in all the circumstances he, having offered himself as a political candidate, should decline to give judgment? 
The answer to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question is that I do not know. 
In answer to the honourable member's question, which is really twofold, I would say, as to the first part, that frankly I do not know. I therefore do not offer to state any firm position on that. The answer to the second part is that as I understand the position - I hope I will be corrected by anyone who has a different view - the late  Dr Evatt  did resign from this Parliament to take up a position as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. That is the fact and, of course, there was nothing wrong with it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. Appointments of judges and magistrates are made without regard to their political sympathies or affiliations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of appeals (including applications for leave or special leave to appeal) to the High Court from Territory Supreme Courts and Federal Courts (including, for the purposes of the answer, as in the answers to similar questions last year and in 1967, State Courts exercising federal jurisdiction) was in 1969 as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, I have given thought to this matter. The compilation of such a list would inevitably be a protracted task, since it' would be necessary to examine carefully not only the Statutes and Statutory Rules of the Commonwealth but also the Ordinances and Regulations of the Territories. However, I have concluded that it is desirable that such a list be prepared and maintained. Accordingly, I have given directions that the preparation of such a list be commenced by my Department but because other projects must be accorded higher priority I have not asked that the task be treated as urgent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Superior Court Bill that was introduced during the twenty-sixth Parliament lapsed when the House of Representatives was dissolved. I am at present considering whether the Bill should be re-introduced and, if so, in what form. Until I have completed my consideration of this major question, it would bc premature to consider tabling the draft amendments of the Judiciary Act that the honourable member hits mentioned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department does not keep such records as would render it practicable to supply this information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that 29 agents came to Australia in connection with the visit of the VicePresident of the United States. 
No. 
No. 
The relevant law for the Australian Capital Territory is the Gun Licence Ordinance 1937- 1964. 
1 know of no cases in which officers of foreign governments have, in Australia, acted in a capacity normally reserved for police officers. 
1 am not aware of any action taken by the Government to grant diplomatic or other immunity to persons accompanying the Vice-President. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 2 and 3. I am not presently able to supply this information. I have, however, directed that inquiries be made to ascertain whether it is practicable to collate from any available sources the information necessary to give an answer. If it is practicable to obtain the information, I shall provide it. 
American Land Holdings in Australia  (Question No. 16) 
My attention has been drawn to some reported utterances of  Mr Clyde  Holding, Leader of the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament. I must say that when I read them I permitted myself to register some astonishment because if the honourable gentleman from Victoria made these utterances it is very surprising that he as a lawyer should have done so since they are founded on a very fundamental fallacy. Under section 120 of the Constitution the States are under an obligation to detain prisoners convicted of offences against Commonwealth laws. For any person holding political office in a State who claims to have a shred of political responsibility to announce that if he were to gain government he would release prisoners convicted of offences against Commonwealth laws is the height of irresponsibility. Such a statement is founded either on a completely irresponsible attitude or on the deepest fallacy that does not do the honourable gentleman any real credit, he being a lawyer. T make all of those remarks on the assumption that  Mr Clyde  Holding did make the statements attributed to him. I must enter that qualification. I am encouraged rather sadly, however, to believe that  Mr Holding  did make the statements because my attention has not been drawn to any published denial by  Mr Holding  of those statements. I should have thought that anybody holding responsible office who found that such statements had been attributed to him falsely would have been quick to deny them. 
May ( be permitted to say firstly that I regard the rather frantic protests that have been made by the 2 honourable members who have just spoken as somewhat - 
The honourable member for Capricornia and the honourable member for Wills. I regard those protests as curiously inconsistent because I understand it to be common ground and accepted ground between the Government and the Opposition that 75 members of the Parliamentary Labor Party - and there are some honourable exceptions whose names I mentioned the other day - are standing in a common cause in this so-called Moratorium Campaign with members of the Communist Party of Australia, and known members of the Communist Party of Australia. 1 therefore find the protests curiously incongruous, because the honourable member for Wills himself said in the debate that followed my ministerial statement a few weeks ago that he - and I am quoting the substance of what he said - was not ashamed to stand alongside members of the Communist Party in a cause like this one. 
I come to deal with the specific question put to rae by the honourable member for Farrer. In answer to the first part of his question, unfortunately there are still some woolly minded people who believe that this Moratorium Campaign is some sort of spontaneous campaign. There is not very much about it that is spontaneous. The second part of the honourable member's question should be answered in the affirmative, and I do so. As to the third part of the question, in which the honourable member asks whether members of the Communist Party are engaged in prominent positions as sponsors of the Campaign, the answer to that part of the question in my belief should be in the affirmative. It is very obvious, of course, that the Opposition does not like the facts, but honourable members opposite will have to take them because they have adopted  a  certain attitude and the public is entitled to be told about their attitude and about its implications. In the last part of his question the honourable member asked whether I would name the people involved as sponsors of the Campaign who are members of the Communist Party of Australia. 
The honourable member for Corio has a rather curious sense of relevance, if I may be permitted to say so. I come to the last part of the question, which obviously is rather hurtful from the Opposition's viewpoint. As the honourable member for Farrer put the question to me I considered for myself whether, in all the circumstances, it would be proper for me to name in this House, under cover of absolute privilege, the various people - and they are numerous - whom I believe to be sponsors of or closely connected with this Campaign and who are members of the Communist Party of Australia. The point I make, firstly, is that the number is quite substantial. My knowledge comes from reports I have read in various articles in the Press. If I may be permitted to say this without being at all discourteous to the fourth estate, my confidence in the accuracy of all aspects of Press reporting is not so unbounded that I would feel justified in stating in this House categorically under cover of parliamentary privilege the names of all the people who are sponsors and whom I believe to be members of the Communist Party of Australia. 
The question was obviously intended as a rhetorical one and I shall treat it as such. 
 I move: 
That the amendments be agreed  to. 
I suggest that it may meet the convenience of the Committee if we take the amendments as a whole. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - There being no objection I will allow that course to be adopted. 
The Senate has inserted certain amendments in the Parliamentary Counsel Bill. Those amendments, as I have indicated by moving this motion, are acceptable to the Government. They concern the mode of fixing the salaries and the annual allowances, if any, payable to the First Parliamentary Counsel and to the Second Parliamentary Counsel. It is proposed to establish those offices by other clauses of the Bill when it becomes an Act. The Bill, as it left this House, provided that the salaries and annual allowances, if any, of the statutory officers to whose designations I have referred would be fixed by regulation. The Bill further provided that the allowances, other than any annual allowance that might be fixed for the 3 statutory officers, such as travelling expenses, would be fixed by the prescription of the Attorney-General. 
That is the form in which the Bill, so far as is relevant for the purpose of present discussion, left this chamber. In the course of the Committee debate in this chamber my honourable and learned friend the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and I reached certain agreement upon some original amendments which by arrangement and with my full concurrence he moved as Opposition amendments and which were accepted by the Government. Those amendments did not find favour in the Senate. The Senate has so amended the Bill as to provide that from and after 1st January 1971 the salaries and the annual allowances, if any, of the parliamentary Counsel - I include within that description the First and the Second Counsel - must be fixed by an Act of Parliament. In the ordinary course that fixation would take place by means of a single line entry in an appropriation bill. 
However, the Senate - and I am glad to say that this was arrived at after discussions between myself, the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and  Senator Greenwood  - perceived a difficulty in which T would find myself if I had to bring in another Bill following upon this one to fix the salaries and allowances of the statutory officers. Had I been put in that situation I would have been very substantially embarrassed in the administration of my Department because consequentially upon the passage or the proposed passage of this legislation and of various other events that have occurred in my Department I find myself on the eve of a substantial reorganisation or at least - more accurately, perhaps - the appointment of a number of people to a number of positions in consequence of the creation of the new positions by this Bill and in consequence of at least 1 retirement of a serving officer. I refer to the former Commonwealth Crown Solicitor,  Mr Renfree,  who retired a few days ago. The Senate was good enough to meet my difficulty. We now have a situation - and this was agreed to by the Government - in which after 1st January 1971 the salary and annual allowance of a statutory officer will be fixed by Act of Parliament but in the meantime can be fixed by regulation. The travelling allowance, which is the matter provided for in clause 6(2) of the Bill will not, as originally proposed in this House, be fixed by the Attorney-General but will be fixed by a regulation which, of course, is capable of review in either House of the Parliament. That is the effect of the amendments and I am pleased to be able to say that the Government accepts them. 
-by leave - In the course of the debate in this House on the Parliamentary Counsel Bill 1970 reference was made by certain honourable members to the need, from time to time, for private members to be able to obtain the assistance of a draftsman. This matter was subsequently raised in the course of the debate on the Bill in the Senate, and I accordingly arranged for the Minister representing me in that place to make a statement outlining the policy I propose to adopt in relation to the provision of drafting assistance to private members. I wish now to inform the House of that policy. Consistently with the practice of my predecessors I will be sympathetically disposed to the giving of drafting assistance to private members. However, the present shortage of draftsmen is such that I could give no undertaking that all requests for assistance will be met. Each request will have to be considered in the light of the commitments for drafting required by the Government. 
Where a draftsman is made available to a private member, his dealings with the private member will be regarded as confidential between him and the member. This means that the draftsman will not communicate drafts or other particulars to the Government without the permission of the private member concerned. I shall not attach a condition that the draftsman furnish a copy of his drafts to the AttorneyGeneral or to any other Minister or officer. Nor will the officer be under an obligation to report to a Minister concerning his work for the private member. However, I can imagine circumstances in which the officer would genuinely find himself in a position in which it would be inconsistent with his duty to serve the Government for him to continue to provide assistance to a private member. In those circumstances, the officer would cease to provide further assistance for the private member. 
The honourable member's question is of such a detailed character that not even he in his wildest expectations could expect me to answer it. If the question were intended to be other than a rhetorical one, which I doubt, J shall endeavour if practicable to obtain the statistics. 
To anyone with even the slightest sense of history this is a momentous occasion in the annals of this Parliament, because for the first time in a generation a government is subjected to a censure motion in circumstances where the result is perhaps not entirely clear. So it is an occasion to be approached with due solemnity. On the whole I think it has been approached with solemnity by the House since this debate began at 11 o'clock this morning. With very few exceptions - if one says there are exceptions it is only a matter of subjective impression, anyway - the standard of the debate has been high and with very few exceptions the debate has been characterised with a proper sense of dispassion. I hope in the remarks I propose to contribute to the discussion, to keep to those standards. 
I would like to preface what I say by asserting, as I think every honourable member who has spoken in this debate has, that I do not for one moment doubt the integrity or the sincerity of the beliefs held by my friend the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  - I hope I can call him my friend both now and hereafter - which he expressed last Friday and today. While I find myself in profound disagreement with him I do not for one moment doubt that what he has said he has said from a sense of full conviction. However, I would like to draw the attention of the House, if I may as it were draw the strings together, and examine just what it is precisely that is involved in this debate. It is essential to the case that is being made against the Government today firstly that there should be shown to have been a commitment given on behalf of the Government at the meeting held on 26th September 1969 that the incoming Government, assuming it were the same Government in political colour, coming into office after the election, agreed that it would not introduce unilaterally legislation with respect of off-shore minerals without, as a necessary pre-condition of introducing that legislation, first consulting with the States. That is the first leg of the case that has to be made, if any case is to be made against the Government this afternoon. 
I did not hear. The second leg of the case - and this, I think, is the leg of the case upon which the House, if it wishes to view this whole problem with any degree of impartiality ought to fasten its attention - is whether, on the assumption that such a commitment was given by the honourable member for Farrer when he was Minister for National Development, it was deliberately and in breach of faith dishonoured by the incoming Government. 
The view I want to put to the House is first that on a fair reading of the transcript, although a different interpretation has been offered, one could not, I suggest, conclude that as a matter of reasonable probability, let alone certainty - and certainty would be needed on this issue if the Government is to fall - an undertaking such as is asserted was ever given. But more importantly than that, if one is to look at the second part of the case made against the Government, those who seek to press this attack must demonstrate, and demonstrate according to a pretty heavy burden of proof - because this is, as everybody agrees, a serious charge - that those members who took office in the Government after the general election of October 1969 knew that the honourable member for Farrer when a Minister had given this commitment, but proceeded to disregard it before, and at any time up to, the point when the Cabinet made its decision, I think in late January, to legislate. 
For the purpose of examining this part of the problem I want to repeat, if the House will bear with me, the concluding words of the statement made by the Prime Minister this morning. This statement is contained in the very last paragraph of his speech. I then wish to go on to something that the honourable member for Farrer said in the opening parts of his speech in this debate today. The Prime Minister's concluding words, in his statement, were as follows:  1 do not doubt that the former Minister has given his interpretation with sincerity. I hope that he will believe the same of the Government. 
I ask the House to note that last sentence because, with the commendable forthrightness that we have come to expect from my friend the honourable member for Farrer, he - and I was listening to him intently as he spoke - opened his speech by saying that he accepted the sincerity with which the Prime Minister had put his interpretation upon the events. I think that is - and I hope the honourable member will agree with me - a correct repetition, in substance, of what he said this morning. 
I have the benefit of the approbation of the honourable member for Farrer in what I have just put to the House. May I ask the House to examine with some care the consequences of the very frank concession of the honourable member for Farrer. May I ask the House to examine those consequences bearing in mind that in the House today the interpretation which, by concession, the Prime Minister put upon the relevant facts and events was that the Government never at any stage before deciding to introduce this legislation or, for that matter, since that time, took the view - whatever other view may be open, and other views have been expressed here today - that the Government had been committed by the words of the honourable member for Farrer when he was Minister for National Development at the September meeting. 
We are dealing with a charge of bad faith, and if bad faith is to be asserted, it has not only to be asserted but also proved, because that is the essential question. It is always easy to assert bad faith, as the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  does. Allegations drip off his tongue. The honourable member for Farrer makes allegations, I know, with sincerity and upon consideration. But what I want to point out to the House is that if the honourable member for Farrer agrees that the Prime Minister's interpretation of the events is  a  sincerely held and sincerely believed interpretation, it disposes, I suggest, once and for all of any suggestion that the Government, which came into office in November 1969, deliberately - for that is what is involved in bad faith in this context - ignored or overrode or broke an undertaking, because essential to the proof of bad faith in this context is that the Government appreciated and believed that an undertaking had been given. 
The next matter which I think ought to be mentioned in this part of the whole argument is that the gentlemen with whom the honourable member for Farrer was negotiating at the meeting held on 26th September 1969 were not - and I say this in no sense disparagingly - political babes in the wood. They were experienced, practising politicians used to negotiations, used to hard bargaining and versed in the art of negotiating on an inter-governmental level. It is very significant, I think, to compare the words that were used in the March 1969 conference. This has been referred to, but it is important in assessing whether a commitment has been given and, if given, broken. The words used by  Mr Fife  in the March 1969 conference were words in which that gentleman specifically requested of my friend the honourable member for Farrer an assurance that the Commonwealth would not legislate unilaterally until a further discussion had been held. It was apparently considered in July and August, when the correspondence took place between the honourable member for Farrer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  that it was not an appropriate time to have another meeting with the State Mines Ministers, having regard to the busy programme in connection with the Budget and the forthcoming general election. So the honourable gentleman wrote to the Prime Minister and suggested that there be a letter sent. The honourable gentleman sought authority to say in the letter that the Government would not propose to legislate unilaterally until a further discussion had been held. The Prime Minister, as the House knows, put a very strong caveat or qualification upon that suggestion. The honourable member for Farrer very properly has not taken any issue with that caveat or qualification in his presentation of his case to the House. 
The point is that when we come to the September meeting we find that there is conversation about other discussions being held. If these experienced Ministers from the States had wanted to insist upon a requirement or an undertaking being given by the Commonwealth that there should be no unilateral legislation until a further discussion had taken place, one would think that the request for such an undertaking would have been conveyed in the same plain and unequivocal words in which it had been conveyed during the course of the March discussions. I do not want to go through the transcript again. It has been gone through a fair bit during this debate. The transcript is innocent of any such proposal being put by the State Ministers. So the truth of the matter is that the undertaking given in March that there would be no unilateral Commonwealth legislation without further discussions was honoured in September. 
I referred to the fact that these negotiations were conducted by experienced people. Honourable members know that at the end of a negotiation of this kind a communique or a Press release is usually issued. This case was no exception. One would venture to think that if the State Mines Ministers had really thought at the time, on 26th September 1969, that they had extracted, as it were - 'extracted' would be the right word to use in this context having regard to the Ministerial correspondence - an undertaking from the honourable member for Farrer that unilateral Commonwealth legislation would not be introduced without further discussion as a precondition, one would expect to find that in cold print in the Press release; because the other matter - we say the only matter that had been agreed upon firmly - was in the Press release, namely, that the Ministers representing the Commonwealth had undertaken to take the State Minister's point of view or counter proposal - call it what you would - to the Cabinet. 
There is one other critically important matter which I ought to mention to the House. Honourable members have heard today a clear assertion by my colleague, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  that at the time he did not understand that a commitment had been given on 26th September 1969 of the sort that the honourable member for Farrer believes was given. I am sure that the honourable member for Farrer himself would be the first to agree that my colleague, the Minister for Education and Science, would not make that assertion if he did not firmly and sincerely believe in it. The conclusion to which I have come, reading the transcript for myself with a great deal of anxious care, is the same as that of my colleague the Minister for Education and Science. The facts to which I have referred in relation to my colleague the Minister for Education and Science, I suggest, dispose of any suggestion that he has been guilty of  a  breach of faith in this matter. 
The facts alleged today by the Minister for National Development and not contradicted prove, if they are believed - I believe them, and I think the House will believe them - that he was not guilty of any breach of good faith in agreeing to go along with the idea that Commonwealth legislation of a unilateral character should be introduced without a further full discussion with the States. Nobody on the Opposition side of the House has asserted that the Minister for National Development has acted in any way dishonestly or trickily in this transaction or in the whole series of transactions. They are 2 Ministers who must stand acquitted of any breach of faith in this matter. Against what other Minister can the allegation of want of good faith conceivably be alleged? I understand that the allegation is made against the Prime Minister. I stand here to refute it, and I refute it upon the simple ground that during the whole of this debate - when I say 'this debate' I include that of last Friday when the honourable member for Farrer first raised this question - the honourable member for Farrer has not asserted - and, I am sure, with complete truth he has not asserted - that he ever told the Prime Minister before the Cabinet discussions at which this decision now complained of was made that he had bound the Commonwealth or thought he had bound the Commonwealth by giving the commitment of the kind he now alleges. 
This cannot but be a crucially relevant fact if we are to attempt any dispassionate survey of the history of this case. The only 3 Ministers against whom, on any even wild view, a charge of bad faith could possibly be levelled do not have it levelled against them. If those Ministers are, as I have shown, free of any taint of bad faith - and 
I include the Prime Minister - who else? Nobody has suggested who else. I suggest, therefore, that on a dispassionate view of the whole of the evidence the Government ought to stand acquitted of the very serious allegation that is made against it in this House today. 
I rise to support your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  This has been a very kaleidoscopic sort of day. We have gone from the high drama of the morning and the afternoon to this after-dinner period when the members of the Opposition are, by means of procedural devices, playing out time until they can build up their numbers to make the Government's majority when a vote is taken a little less than it otherwise would be. The plain fact is that this is a charade that is being played by the Opposition. I except from that remark the contribution to the debate that was made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who has just resumed his seat. He did try to make, quite exceptionally for his side, a serious contribution which I wish to answer. It is a good thing that somebody on the Opposition side has broken away from the game-playing to attempt to deal with the substance of the matter. The only principle that ought to be taken into account is that, according to the practice of the House of Commons - that being the relevant practice, there being no standing order of this House covering the situation - an amendment should not be allowed if it is merely an expanded negative of the motion. The principle is clear. The only question is whether the amendment that is proposed by the Government is or is not an expanded negative of the motion of want of confidence which was moved by the Opposition against the Government earlier today. 
I am sorry to hear the honourable member for Sydney unwilling as always to. listen to fair debate and making stupid interjections. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports who preceded me in this debate will not particularly thank his colleague for making stupid, frivolous interjections when I am trying to deal- 
I would like to return to answering the only serious contribution to the debate that has been made by a member of the Opposition. That was the contribution made by my friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports a few moments ago. The principle that he enunciated and upon which I am prepared to debate with him is that an amendment should not be allowed if it is merely an expanded negative of the motion. The Opposition this morning moved an amendment 
That the question be now  put. 
Question put: 
That  Mr Speaker's  ruling be dissented from. 
I remember the speech by the honourable member in a Grievance Day debate recently, and a very powerful speech it was too. In framing his question, the honourable member seems to presuppose, if 1 may say so, that 1 have decided to take proceedings because he asks me when they will be commenced. All I want to say in answer is this: I have the case under consideration and I will decide in due course whether, and if so when, proceedings will be taken. But I have not yet decided whether proceedings should be taken or not. 
by leave - Honourable members will recall that in my recent second reading speech explaining the Parliamentary Counsel Bill I indicated that I had under consideration proposals affecting other areas of work in my Department. One area to which 1 have been giving particular attention concerns law reform in the Australian Capital Territory, and I take this opportunity to inform the House of some decisions the Government has made to further this important work. The need for law reform is, of course, by no means confined to the Australian Capital Territory. Throughout the world governments are recognising that it is not enough to direct all of their legislative efforts towards the enactment of laws designed to implement political concepts. It is generally recognised that there is, in addition, a need for constant review of existing laws, particularly those upon which basic juristic principles and institutions depend. Otherwise, experience has shown that it is only a matter of time before those laws become inadequate to meet the needs of a fast developing and increasingly sophisticated society. 
In recent years the Government has given close and continuing attention to the need for law reform in the Australian Capital 
Territory. After reviewing the problem in 1965, the Government approved the creation within the 4 responsible departments, namely, the Department of the Interior, the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of Health and the Treasury, of special groups of officers to be assigned exclusively to the task of reviewing the laws of the Territory and to keeping those laws up to date. 
While the Government concluded that the responsibility for the work of ACT law reform should rest with the responsible departments, it decided that arrangements should be made for consultation on matters of a specialist or technical nature to take place with informed sections of the community. For the co-ordination of the efforts of the 4 responsible departments an interdepartmental co-ordinating committee was established. These decisions of the Government have been implemented. Departmental staffs have been strengthened by the creation of groups of officers to undertake law reform work for the Territory. There has been consultation with bodies such as the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory, the Australian Capital Territory Bar Association and the Australian National University. Other bodies have been consulted in relation to particular matters in which they have had a special interest, and in some projects assistance has been obtained from particular persons with special knowledge or experience. 1 am pleased to be able to say that much has been accomplished under these arrangements. The task of reforming the law is inevitably a painstaking one, and progress cannot always be achieved at the rate that may be felt to be desirable. Nevertheless, there has been good progress in the Australian Capital Territory under the arrangements now operating. I shall not take the time of honourable members to indicate all the matters that have become the subject of legislation. But the House will, 1 think, be interested to know that since 1967 my own Department has been responsible for some 30 significant ordinances of a law reform nature - some of them representing quite major projects. For example, these ordinances include: An ordinance providing for the interpretation of Territory ordinances and statutory instruments: a juries ordinance providing for all aspects of jury service and, in particular, for women to serve on juries; an ordinance making comprehensive provision with respect to maintenance of wives, husbands and children; a new Wills Ordinance; ordinances enabling married persons to sue each other in tort; a number of amendments to the Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance; an ordinance facilitating the transfer of marketable securities; a new Family Provision Ordinance - to ensure that the family of a deceased person receive adequate provision out of his estate; an ordinance enabling a person between the ages of 18 and 21 years to borrow on the security of a mortgage of his home; amendments to the Administration and Probate Ordinance; and amendments to the Real Property Ordinance. 
Several other major projects have reached an advanced stage and legislation will shortly be forthcoming. In this connection, I would mention, first, the proposed legislation concerning strata or unit titles which has been prepared by a specially appointed working group comprising an officer from my Department, an officer from the Department of the Interior, a university professor of law, and a legal practitioner with extensive conveyancing experience. The present position with respect to this legislation is that the comments of interested bodies to which the draft was circulated for comment have only recently been received and are now being examined. 
Another project at an advanced stage is the proposed Legal Practitioners Ordinance to replace the Ordinance disallowed last year by the Senate. Since assuming office 1 have given close attention to this important legislation and have had the benefit of discussion with representatives of the 2 professional bodies representing lawyers in the Territory. I am pleased to be able to say that a printed draft of the proposed Ordinance has just been forwarded for comment to those 2 bodies and to the Advisory Council. It should now be possible to have the Ordinance made in the very near future. The preparation of a new Criminal Code for the Territory has been a particularly big task, in which I have been very considerably assisted by the Law Council of Australia. Here again, the views of interested bodies have been sought. Some have been received and are being examined. I would mention also that a new Evidence Ordinance for the Territory is in its final stage of preparation. Helpful comments on a printed draft of the proposed Ordinance have been obtained from interested professional bodies and I expect that the Ordinance will be made very shortly. 
From what I have said honourable members will appreciate that the task of law reform for the Australian Capital Territory is being actively pursued. I should like to acknowledge at this point my predecessor's interest in this work. He was active in exploring possible new ways of advancing the work. During his term of office the Attorney-General's Department was reorganised so as to involve more directly in the work senior officers of the Department able to provide guidance to the special groups of officers established in 1965. Experience has shown that such direct involvement of senior officers is particularly desirable, and my Department is accordingly about to submit to the Public Service Board proposals for a further reorganisation in which the emphasis will be still further in the direction of committing the work of Territory law reform to officers at suitable levels who will be free from conflicting duties in the federal sphere. 
The Government has hitherto taken the view - to which it still adheres - that it should not abdicate its responsibility for legislation involving significant policy considerations by referring proposals for such legislation to an outside body such as a law reform commission. In recent years there has been pressure from various quarters for the establishment of a law reform commission, but having regard, amongst other things, to the extent to which policy. The Government's view in this in Territory reform projects, the Government has felt it more appropriate that these projects should be handled by the departments responsible for the policy. Having recently given the matter further consideration, the Government sees no reason for taking a different view in regard to projects involving significant questions of policy. The Government's view in this regard is, I might say, in complete accord with views expressed in the course of discussion of the subject of law reform at a conference of Australian and New Zealand 
Law Ministers held at Wellington on 26th February this year. At that conference, however, there was general agreement that law reform commissions and similar bodies can assist materially in the reform of those areas of the law that do not involve significant policy. To give just a few illustrations I mention the law of conveyancing, the law of defamation and the law governing the time within which legal proceedings must be instituted after the cause of action has accrued. 
The Government has accordingly decided to establish a law reform commission for the purpose of supplementing the work of the departments concerned in reviewing and reforming the law of the Australian Capital Territory. The Commission will be presided over by a full-time  chairman  with very senior qualifications in the law. The Government has in mind that the  chairman  would if possible be a person with the status of Supreme Court judge. There will, in addition, be certain part-time members of the Commission and an appropriate supporting staff. 
At the discussion at Wellington to which I have referred there was general agreement that the work to be undertaken by a law reform commission and the priority to be accorded to particular projects should be a matter for decision by the Government and this will be the position with respect to the law reform commission to be established for the Australian Capital Territory. All references of matters to the commission will, in fact, be made by the AttorneyGeneral and the commission will forward its reports to the Attorney-General. The reports of such a body will, of course, be most valuable documents and honourable members may rest assured that the Government will treat them as such, lt goes without saying that the ultimate decision on to the implementation of any report will be a matter for the Government. This represents no departure from common practice. 

 Mr Speaker, 1 have indicated the Government's decision to establish a law reform commission for the Territory and the basic principles that will be applied in establishing it. There are, of course, certain matters of detail that still need to be worked out but honourable members may rest assured that these matters will he attended to as expeditiously as possible. 1 believe that the com mission will make an important contribution to the development of the Australian Capital Territory. 
I present the following paper: 
Law Reform for the Australian Capital Territory - Ministerial Statement, I9th May 1970. 
 I move: 
That  the Bill bc now read  a  second time.  This Bill is designed to amend the provisions of the Bills of Exchange Act relating to cheques and bank drafts. The main purpose of the Bill is to do away with the necessity for indorsements on order cheques and bank drafts that are paid into the account of the payee. It will benefit the public and relieve bankers of much of the unproductive work at present involved in examining indorsements. The Bill will effect other incidental improvements in the law relating to cheques. Before proceeding to deal with the substance of the Bill, I should explain that it will be an interim measure pending the introduction of a comprehensive Cheques Bill to codify the civil law relating to cheques, of which the GovernorGeneral made mention in opening the last Parliament. There will be no incompatibility between the interim measure and the comprehensive measure as the provisions proposed in the Bill are among those the Government has in mind to include in the comprehensive Cheques Bill I. have mentioned. 
I should tell honourable members that difficulties have been encountered in the preparation of the comprehensive Bill and it was not possible to introduce it in the last Parliament. Indeed, its preparation is still not complete. The essential difficulty lies in translating into the second half of the twentieth century a code that was devised in the second half of the nineteenth century -our Bills of Exchange Act 1909-1958 is still essentially the British Act of 1882 - and, furthermore, a code that is primarily concerned with the elaborate ritual of the nineteenth century merchant doing business with bills of exchange rather than with the modern business use of cheques. Today, the cheque is used as a means of payment in vast numbers of everyday transactions of a non-commercial character as well, of course, as in ordinary commercial activities. Such a comprehensive review has not yet been attempted in any of the countries of the British Commonwealth; their legislation is still based on the British Act of 1882. 
The Government has had the benefit of the report of the committee that it appointed to review the Bills of Exchange Act. Honourable members will recall that that committee was chaired by  Mr Justice  Manning of the Supreme Court of New South Wales and that its report was presented to Parliament on 12th October 1965. The committee recommended that a new Act be passed dealing comprehensively with cheques. The comprehensive Cheques Bill I have mentioned will be broadly along the. lines recommended by the committee. It is clear, however, that some of the recommendations made by the Manning Committee will require modification to take account of fundamental changes that are now taking place in banking procedures, particularly in the use of computers. Discussions are at present proceeding with bankers about the extent to which a modern code should take into account changes that have occurred or that are in prospect. For example, at least one of the trading banks is now redesigning its operations to provide for the storage of cheques at a central processing centre. The old reality - basic to the present Act - of physical presentment of a cheque at the branch on which it is drawn will be gone. 
I have said enough about these difficulties. Work is proceeding to overcome them but it is clear that it will be some little time before I shall be able to bring in a comprehensive Bill. It is therefore, in my view, desirable to give effect now in a short Bill to a reform recommended by the Manning Committee - doing away with the unnecessary indorsement of cheques. This is a reform that has been widely sought within the community and 1 consider it to be the most important of the reforms recommended by the Manning Committee. 1 believe that its implementation will be of real benefit to members of the public, to the commercial community and to bankers. The Bill will give effect lo a policy broadly similar to that of the United Kingdom Cheques Act 1957 but modified to take into account views expressed by the Manning Committee. 
I turn now to consider the main purpose of the Bill which is, as 1 have said, to do away with unnecessary indorsement of cheques. It may assist honourable members if 1 give some figures that bear upon this matter. Estimates 1 have been able to obtain indicate that over 800 million cheques are issued annually in Australia and that about one-quarter or approximately 200 million arc order cheques. Cheques drawn on the Reserve Bank are invariably payable to order; these include cheques for social service payments, repatriation payments and income tax refunds. The Department of Social Services alone. I understand, issues some 2 million cheques each fortnight. In addition, cheques drawn by State governments and by companies are usually payable to order. At present, all these cheques have to be indorsed by the payees and examined by bankers. 
It is estimated that over 2 million order cheques are dishonoured annually for lack of indorsement or for irregular indorsement. lt is also estimated that at least threequarters of all cheques drawn are deposited to the credit of the payee so, in the great majority of cases where cheques are returned for indorsement, no question of title to the cheque is involved. The dishonour of a cheque in these cases does not safeguard the drawer or true owner. It is a great inconvenience to the private individual and to commercial firms and also involves the banker in much unproductive work. In the United Kingdom a solution to the problem of unnecessary indorsement of cheques was attempted in the Cheques /et 1957. ft is a different solution to that proposed in this Bill and I think that I should take a moment or two to explain why I propose in this Bill a different solution. 
The United Kingdom Cheques Act has had a curious history. Its starting point is the 1956 report of the Mocatta Committee on cheque indorsement. That report recommended legislation substantially along the lines now proposed. Before action was taken by the United Kingdom Government lo introduce a Bill a private member's Bill was introduced which, with minor changes, was subsequently adopted by the Government. That Bill, which is now the Cheques Act 1957, did not follow the Mocatta draft and proceeded along quite different lines. The relevant sections, sections 1 and 4, may be construed as doing away with the necessity for indorsement of all cheques whether they are cheques paid into the account of the payee or negotiated cheques, that is, cheques that have been negotiated by the payee in favour of a third party. Support is provided for that construction by the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Westminster Bank v. Zang (1966) 2 W.L.R. 110. lt is by no means clear that this result was intended by those who supported the Bill. Indeed during the debate in the House of Lords it was said, in answer lo criticism by Lord Chorley of the departures from the Mocatta Committee's recommendations, that the advice received by the bankers was that negotiated cheques would still need to be indorsed. Alternatively, it was said that bankers would in practice insist on indorsement of negotiated cheques and order cheques paid over .the counter to ensure that they and their customers were protected. It is significant that on 23rd September 1957, before the Act came into force, the Committee of London Clear' ng Bankers issued a memorandum lo the public which stated that indorsement would continue to be necessary in the case of negotiated cheques and order cheques paid over the counter. The result in the United Kingdom is, therefore, that the law does not appear to require the indorsement of any cheques but, as a result of the memorandum I have mentioned, bankers require indorsement of negotiated cheques and order cheques paid over the counter. The position is the same in New Zealand, where a Cheques Act along the lines of the United Kingdom Act has been enacted and a banking practice similar to that in the United Kingdom has been adopted. 
The Manning committee, having considered all these matters and having heard submissions from all interested parties, concluded that the original recommendation of the Mocatta Committee should be followed - that is, that the necessity for indorsement should be done away with only in the case of cheques paid into the account of the payee. The Government has accepted this recommendation. The matter that was decisive in its deeision was that the examination by banks of the regularity of indorsements of negotiated cheques is a valuable protection to drawers and the true owners of cheques. I have dealt at some length with the reasons why this Bill provides a different solution from that which the United Kingdom Act provides. It will, however, provide the same practical benefits as a matter of law as are provided in the United Kingdom by a combination of law and banking practice. 
In summary, the effect of the indorsement provisions of the Bill will be as follows: A customer of a banker will not need to indorse an order cheque paid into his account if he is the payee; only those cheques that have been negotiated to third parties will require indorsement. A banker paying a cheque drawn on him by a customer will only have to examine a cheque for indorsement where he pays it over the counter. A banker with whom cheques are deposited by a customer will now only have to examine the face of each cheque to ascertain whether it is to be paid into the account of the payee and, if so, he will not have to turn over the cheque to look at the back and compare the indorsement with the name of the payee. The principal provisions that give effect to the proposed alteration of the law concerning indorsement are new sections 88b and 88d contained in clause 5 of the Bill. The former deals with the responsibility of  a  banker paying  a  cheque drawn on him by  a  customer, commonly called a 'paying banker', and the latter deals with a banker who receives payment for - a customer, commonly called  a  'collecting banker'. These provisions will also extend to bank drafts, which include what are commonly called 'bank cheques'. 
I shall now deal with the provisions of proposed new section 88b. Section 65 of the present Act protects a banker who pays a cheque bearing a forged indorsement or an indorsement made without authority if he acts in good faith and in the ordinary course of business. Section 86 protects a banker against a common law claim for conversion in respect of a crossed cheque where he pays the cheque to another banker in good faith and without negligence. Failure to examine order cheques for indorsement would be contrary to the ordinary course of business under section 65 and would constitute evidence of negligence under section 86. Accordingly, to obtain the protection of sections 65 and 86 a paying banker must examine order cheques for indorsement. If the proposed alteration of the law concerning indorsements is made, a paying banker will not know whether a cheque has been paid into a payee's account with the collecting banker or into some other account. Proposed new section 88b will, therefore, relieve a paying banker of the responsibility for ensuring the regularity of indorsement of all order cheques paid to a collecting banker and leave that responsibility to be discharged by the collecting banker alone. A paying banker will, however, continue to be responsible for ensuring the regularity of an indorsement on an order cheque that he pays over the counter. 
The purpose of new section 88d is, firstly, to do away with the necessity for a collecting banker to examine for indorsement order cheques that are paid into the account of the payee, and, secondly, to extend to uncrossed cheques the protection afforded by section 88 to a collecting banker in the case of crossed cheques. At present, under section 88 of the Act, a collecting banker who receives payment of a crossed cheque in good faith and without negligence is protected against the common law liability for conversion to which he is subject if his customer had no title or a defective title to the cheque. A banker, like anyone else who deals with property inconsistently with the rights of the true owner, is liable to the true owner in an action for conversion. To bring himself within the protection of the section, a collecting banker must examine an order cheque to verify the indorsement; to receive payment of a cheque bearing an irregular indorsement would be evidence of negligence on his part. 
Under the proposed provision, a collecting banker must continue to examine negotiated order cheques to bring himself within the protection of the provision. Much of the benefit of doing away with the necessity for indorsement on order cheques paid into a payee's account would be lost if collecting bankers were to insist on indorsement where there were minor discrepancies between the name of the payee appearing on the cheque and the name of the customer's account. The proposed section 88d provides, therefore, that where the name of the payee on the cheque is so similar to the name of the customer that it would be reasonable for the collecting banker to assume that the customer is the person intended by the drawer to be the payee, the banker need not concern himself with the absence of or irregularity in indorsement. 1 It is important that the proposed change in the law relating to indorsements should be introduced without affecting the position of persons under other provisions of the Act or under the common law. The Bill contains two proposed provisions directed to that end: Proposed new section 88c, which is intended to preserve the value of paid order cheques as evident of receipt of the amount of the cheque, and proposed new section 88b, which is intended to preserve the rights that a collecting banker now has as a holder for value under section 32 in respect of indorsed order cheques. So far as evidence of receipt is concerned, the drawer of an indorsed order cheque, under the existing law, can use it after payment by his banker as evidence, although it is not conclusive evidence, of receipt by the payee of the amount of the cheque. In fact, a paid indorsed order cheque is as good evidence of the payment of money as the simple receipt of the kind sometimes printed on the back of cheques. 
If the proposed change in the law concerning indorsements is effected, there is no reason why a paid unindorsed order cheque would have any less value as evidence of payment than a paid indorsed order cheque now has. Proposed new section 88c ensures that this will be so by providing that an order cheque that appears to have been paid by the banker on whom it is drawn is evidence of the receipt by the payee of the sum payable by the cheque. This provision will, I believe, be useful for auditors and others required to satisfy themselves that the payee has in fact received the amount of the cheque. This provision will extend to a bank draft. The purpose of new section 88e is to ensure that a collecting banker who at the present time has the rights of a holder for value in respect of an indorsed cheque will not be prejudiced by the proposed change in the law to do away with the necessity for indorsement on cheques payable to order that are paid into the payee's account. 
The reason why a collecting banker now requires an indorsement on a cheque payable to order is to establish himself as a holder for value, thus, enabling him to sue on the cheque in his own right. In order that a collecting banker will continue to have the rights of a holder for value in respect of cheques that will not in future be indorsed because they will be collected for the payee, new section 88e provides that the banker will have the rights of a holder that he would have had if the payee had indorsed it in blank. I believe that the proposed provisions that I have just described will provide a significant measure of reform of the law relating to cheques and I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Connor)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 can give information of the kind requested in relation to 7 countries, the United Kingdom, Canada. New Zealand, the United States of America, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the U.S.S.R. In these countries, the age at which a person may marry without the consent of a parent, guardian or public official is: 
This will be one of the shortest speeches I have made in the House during my time here. The Government is quite prepared to accept the proposed amendment. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has correctly perceived the object of the sub-clause in its original form. We take the view that the proposed amendment will achieve precisely the same purpose. It is only a matter of words. We are quite happy to accept the change. 
My attention has been drawn to the report referred to by the honourable member for Griffith. In answer to the second part of his question, I would certainly not agree that the facts alleged in the report - the honourable member seems to assume that everything in the report is true - afford any ground whatsoever for making any imputation against the Victorian Solicitor-General. I hope the honourable member does not think that I am dealing sternly with his question, but an imputation against a law officer of the Crown whom I know well and respect greatly is a somewhat serious matter. I have given the honourable member an assurance earlier this week that I will investigate, and indeed thai I have under consideration, the matters that he raised concerning the taping of telephone conversations which were given in evidence in the Victorian abortion inquiry. That assurance stands. 
In the unavoidable absence of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  I move: 
If the honourable member wants to know, it is an oleaginous substance which is mixed with something else and used in the manufacture of plastic goods. If the honourable member consults the report he will be much wiser than he is by my description of it. 
In the last paragraph. In its report on factice the Board recommended a duty level of 10%, ad valorem, under both the General and Preferential Tariffs. The goods were previously free of duty from all countries. I commend the Proposals to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I present the following reports by the Tariff Board: 
Centrifuges. 
Extrusion Presses. 
Factice. 
Screws for Wood. 
Weighing Machinery and Weights. 
Electric Shavers (New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement). 
Nolegislative action arises from the last mentioned report. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to question no. 137 (see Hansard, 5th May 1970, page 1640). The Committee does not now propose to furnish an interim report on these amendments until I have completed my consideration of the question whether the Commonwealth Superior Court Bill should be re-introduced into the Parliament and, if so, in what form. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The offences for which these persons were arrested were offences against State law. I do not know how many of those arrested have been tried or convicted. 
Discussions on the control of public demonstrations have taken place on two occasions in the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General, once formally and once informally. It would be inconsistent with the confidential character of discussions in the Standing Committee to identify matters discussed at particular meetings where these have not been mentioned in Press statements issued after meetings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In November1967 a Working Group was appointed by the Government to consider and report upon proposed legislation to make provision for granting unit titles in the Australian Capital Territory. 
In December 1969 draft Ordinances for this purpose were circulated for comment to a number of interested bodies. The comments of some bodies with particular interest in the proposed legislation have only recently been received. The comments are now being examined with a view to settling the provisions of the proposed legislation. 
The legislation for the Australian Capital Territory should provide the basis for similar legislation for the Northern Territory. 
1 refer to the answer given to this question and printed in Hansard for 5th May 1970 at page 1646. The inquiries that I caused to be made in this matter have elicited the following information:  la)  Mr Hermes  was appointed a Stipendiary Magistrate for the Australian Capital Territory on 6th December 1963. 
Such examination of the records of the Court of Petty Sessions and in the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor's Office. Canberra as it has been practicable lo make discloses only seven National Service Act cases in the Court of Petty Sessions between 1964 and .1968. None was dealt wilh by Hermes. S.M. During 1969 and 1970 the records show 16 cases under the National Service Act in the Court of Petty Sessions. Only one was a prosecution and that was not dealt with by  Mr Hermes.  The other cases were either hardship applications or conscientious objection applications. Three hardship applications were listed before Hermes, S.M. One was struck out and the other two were allowed. One conscientious objection application was heard by  Mr Hermes  who refused the application; the application was allowed on appeal to the Supreme Court. 
The  Clerk  of Petty Sessions, Canberra, confirms that it would not be practicable to identify cases heard by  Mr Hermes  involving Vietnam protests. 
I do not for a moment suggest that opinions expressed in the Press or by the Press are a complete gauge of public opinion but 1 do hold the view, if I may say so, that when representations are made to one about proposed changes in the law it does no harm to fry to promote rational discussion in which all viewpoints, for and against a particular proposal, may not only be put but, when put, will be listened to by me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
Law Reform (Question No. 93S) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The establishment and naming of Departments is a mutter for the Governor-General, acting on the advice of the Prime Minister (see Con.stitution s. 64). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The revenue received by my Department from the sale of transcripts by the Commonwealth Reporting Service is shown in the Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure included amongst the Budget papers presented by the Treasurer each year. Revenue from the sale of transcripts by the Commonwealth Reporting Service for the financial year 1968-69 was $319,972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Records are not kept such as would enable this question to be readily answered. I would expect that persons who have been charged with offences in the Australian Capital Territory arising out of demonstrations or activities against the Vietnam war would usually have been charged with offences of a fairly general character, such as offensive behaviour, obstructing the police or insulting language. In order to answer the honourable member's question, it would be necessary, first, to identify every charge of that nature and then examine the record of proceedings for the purpose of seeing whether the charge bore any relationship to demonstrations or to activities of the kind mentio'ned. It would not be practicable for this to be done. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No State Companies Act so provides. The term of office for which  a  director of a company can be elected is governed by the company's articles of association. For this purpose,  a  company may adopt what rules it chooses. Thus, a company might provide for two-yearly or five-yearly terms. A company may, but need not, adopt paragraphs 64, 65 and 66 of Table A in the Fourth Schedule to the Companies Act or, in the case of  a  no liability company, paragraphs 47, 48 and 49 of Table  B  in that Schedule. 
The answer to Question No. 420 does not seem to me to be inconsistent with  (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)) and (2) I think the case that the honourable member has in mind is Barnes v. Oliver and Ors. (B. No. 202 of 1970 in the Commonwealth Industrial Court), in which the Court ruled that  a  person who had been subpoenaed to produce certain documents could not be questioned by the party who had caused the subpoena to be issued to test the veracity of answers given by the person as to the existence or whereabouts of documents that he had not produced. The party who caused the subpoena to be issued could have required the person subpoenaed to go into the witness box and give evidence in the matter generally. Had this course been adopted, the witness could not have been cross-examined by the party calling him unless the witness showed himself to be hostile. As things turned out, the party who caused the subpoena to be issued chose nol to call the person as a witness to give evidence in the matter generally. As I. understand it, the person in question was sworn merely to answer the subpoena. I am not satisfied that any amendment of the law is necessary or desirable. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has raised for the second time in 19 months, the last time having been in November 1968, 2 questions which are of undoubted importance. I do not say for one minute that they do not deserve the attention of the House. He has with every justification reminded me of my recent past and has drawn the attention of the House to the fact that when I took part in the same sort of debate in November 1968 1 expressed a view which was favourable to the granting of a vote to people of 18 years of age. I suppose that this is not the first time in the history of the career of a person who occupies the office of Minister of the Crown that some spectre of his freewheeling past has come out of the fog to haunt him. I accept in completely good part, if I may say this, the quite agreeable and justifiable flick of the whip that my honourable and learned friend has given me today. As my friend, the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  reminds me, politics is in part the art of being flexible and of adjusting to changed circumstances. 
I shall not try to wriggle. I shall endeavour to explain to the House the Government's attitude to this present Bill. I say at once, speaking purely personally, that I see no reason to depart from the view 1 expressed in November 1968, but 1 hasten to say that my personal views on a measure such as this - it is a very important measure - ought to be subservient to another principle which I regard as a very important principle too. If one is a member of a government one must be prepared in particular circumstances to allow one's own views, which may have been expressed quite forthrightly in different circumstances, to be conditioned by the views of others. Government under the Cabinet system consists basically of a measured consensus. Let me say next, if I may, that the Government's attitude to this Bill, which J now express, is that it ought not to be given a second reading at this stage. 
The Government's attitude is founded upon no deliberate decision that the Bill in either of its major respects ought to be opposed in terms of principle. Rather is the Government's attitude simply that the question of reducing the age at which marriage may be contracted without consent and the question of whether the age of eligibility to vote should be reduced are questions of great importance. Because of other questions that attend them and surround them, they ought to be decided only after the fullest investigation and consideration. While the Government for which I now speak has taken steps to investigate and to see considered these important questions and the attendant questions, to which I shall refer later, it has not yet considered or come to a decision on the question of principle involved. I think that the House will agree with me, that, whatever our political differences may be on a great number of issues, this Government in the 6 months since it attained office - I suppose it is now getting on for 7 months - has been a very busy government in the sense that it has put before the Parliament through the Cabinet mill a very large volume of legislation. That is one of the factors that has militated against the Government being able to give consideration to the important questions of principle that are involved in the Bill which has been presented by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I think that in considering this measure it may be helpful to the House if I deal with it in historical perspective. The question of the reduction of the voting age, if I may take that part of the Bill first, was considered at a Premiers' Conference held in June 1968. At that Conference the then Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  raised for the consideration of his fellow Premiers and of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  the question of whether the voting age should be reduced from 21 to 18 years. As a result of discussions at that Conference the question was referred to the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. In the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General the question of the reduction of the voting age received consideration on  2  separate occasions. 
The first occasion was in November 1968 at a meeting held in Perth at which the Standing Committee reached a consensual view that any reduction of the voting age ought to be approached on a uniform basis - that is, uniform as between the Commonwealth and each of the States. Then in December 1969 this question came up for consideration again at a meeting of the Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral held in Adelaide. This was the first meeting that I attended in my present capacity. It was announced in the Press communique released at the end of the meeting that the Standing Committee had formed the opinion that legislation to effect a uniform - I think it is important to emphasise the word 'uniform' - reduction in the voting age would present no legal or constitutional problems. 
However, the Standing Committee was of the view - and this view was recorded in the Press release from a copy of which I am reading - that the question of a reduction in the voting age was ultimately a matter of Government policy and not one to be decided by the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. As one of the Ministers at that meeting who reached that concensus on this point, I now reiterate that view. I think that when one reflects upon the problem much difficulty will be avoided if those who are in favour of promoting legislation to reduce the voting age seek to achieve their objective by uniform Commonwealth-State action. 
There are various considerations which predispose the Government - certainly myself, speaking for the Government - towards that view. Firstly there is the matter referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. Some States - I think 4 of the 6 States - have rolls of electors which are common for both Federal and State elections but 2 States do not have common rolls. Unless we are to have uniformity in the voting age throughout the Commonwealth for the purposes of both Commonwealth and State elections, I can see considerable confusion and great administrative difficulty in relation to the voting rolls. If a State which is now one of the 4 States using the common voting roll were to reduce the age of voting for the purposes of its State election, then the necessity would arise to compile a completely new roll for each electorate of the State concerned. That is one reason why we should endeavour to strive for uniformity. 
I do not think the question of the reduction of the voting age ought to be looked at in isolation from other very serious questions which arise in relation to the reduction of the age of majority for other gur.poses. The report of the Committer on the Age of Majority - the Latey Committee - in the United Kingdom, which is a most impressive and illuminating document, did not touch on the question of whether the voting age ought to be reduced. There is one passage in that report which it may be useful to read to the House. The majority report referred at page 17 of the Command publication to the question of what was called the civic field - 'the question of jury service, whether 18-year-olds should serve on juries, and so forth. This part of the report states: 
But it does not seem to us that changes in the civic field are at all likely to follow changes in the private field even if we wish that they should. It is a very different thing to cope adequately with one's personal and private affairs and to measure up to public and civic responsibilities. Not every sound taxpayer is equipped to be Prime Minister and in the United Suites of America the  President  must be over 35. 
I do not want the House to think that I necessarily adopt those views as my own. My purpose in citing that excerpt from the report is to underline what I regard as the undoubted fact that this  is  an area on which views can genuinely differ and therefore an area in which, in the long term, the public could well be best served in a Federal Commonwealth if we first endeavour to travel along the path of uniformity. 
My honourable friend the Leader of the Opposition referred today to the attitude of the some of the States to a proposal that the voting age should bc reduced from 21 to 18 years. I thought 1 heard him say that the 2 largest States had decided to reduce the voting agc to 18. 1 think that one qualification ought to be put on that statement. Certainly in New South Wales  Mr Askin's  Government, following receipt and consideration of the report of the Law Reform Commission of that State on the age of legal majority, took ils own decision to reduce the voting age. lt is the fact, however that so far no legislation has yet Come forward. [ have no doubt we may anticipate that legisltaion will be forthcoming. That is a factor which must be taken into account, of course, by the Commonwealth Government, I had not understood that there had been a firm decision by the Victorian Government. 
1 may be in error on this point and I do not want to assert it positively in contradiction to what the Leader of the Opposition has said. May I put very tentatively a possible qualification upon what he sa;d. I have taken steps to check, not out of any disrespect to my friend but because J wanted to find out whether this information, which took me slightly by surprise, was correct. In the time I have had to make inquiries I have been told that  Sir Arthur  Rylah said during the election campaign that his Party would reduce the State voting age to 18 but that it would not move independently of the Commonwealth. 1 think that is the true position. 
I am bound to say - this bears upon the topic generally - that in Victoria the age for voting in municipal elections has been reduced to 18. 
Yes, that has already happened. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The compilation of information of this kind is primarily a matter for the Bureau of Census and Statistics. I understand that the Bureau,to which this part of the question has been referred, is taking steps that will enable it to compile and, subject to the requirements of the Census and Statistics Act 1905-1966 in regard to the confidentiality of individual returns, to publish information about companies in various categories of size and in various industries and also about groups of companies under common ownership and control. 
The views of the Company Law Advisory Committee on the question whether disclosure of turnover should be required were stated in paragraph 20 of the Advisory Committee's First Interim Report. The Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General has decidedthat forthe present, companies should not be required to disclose their turnover. The Standing Committee's decision took into account, amongst other things, that the Advisory Committee had drawn attention to the need for considerable flexibility in any provision and had indicated that it did not regard disclosure of turnover as a major weapon for the protection of investors. 
So far as can be ascertained from legislation of other countries, views differ as to the effectiveness of publicity and disclosure to the public as aids inthe control of restrictive trade practices and agreements. 
I have the operation of the secrecy provisions of the Trade Practices Act under continuing review. I am bound to say, however, that as at present advised I have not reached any conclusion that these provisions ought to be amended. The reasons why the Act does not provide a private right of complaint to the Tribunal were explained tothis House by the then AttorneyGeneral during the Second Readingdebate on the 
Trade Practices Bill 1965 (Hansard 30th November 1965,. page 3357). The views I expressed on the matter in that debate appear in Hansard, 25th November 1965, page 3235. So far as I am aware, those countries that provide for enquiries to be made to determine whether a particular trade practice is contrary to the public interest and should on that account be prohibited do not provide for the enquiries to be instituted by private complaint to the body responsible for making the determinations. 
Yes, 1 certainly am aware that the Bill will become an Act this Friday. I am not yet in a position to announce the names of the 3 Parliamentary Counsel who in due course will be appointed under the Act. Of course, I have very clearly in mind the recommendations that I shall make to my colleagues in the Cabinet. But certain machinery steps have to be taken and are being taken expeditiously. I hope that those steps will be completed in time for me to make an announcement not later than some time next week or earlier if possible. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
From enquiries made of my colleagues who are responsible for the administration of prisons in the Territories, I understand that leg irons are not permitted. My colleague the Minister for External Territories described fully the situation in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea in his answer to question No. 873 (see Hansard, 8 May 1970 at page 1941). 
There are no Commonwealth prisons outside the Territories. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Should it fall to me, as Attorney-General, to make a recommendation for the appointment of a judge or magistrate, I shall take into account all matters that I consider relevant. 
Party names on ballot papers  (Question No. 141) 
1 think the honourable member has asked me 4 questions, of which 2 are of an extremely detailed nature and 1 ask him to treat them as being on notice. In view of the fact that the other 2 questions, the third and the fourth, would appear to depend for a proper answer upon the answers to the first and second questions. I will deal with them when I have answered the questions which I will treat as being on notice. 
If 1 may say so, with respect to the honourable member, it is not correct to talk in terms of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill taking anything from the States. If the Bill is a valid legislative act it will not take anything away: It will merely declare and enact what the Commonwealth conceives to be, and will argue to be, the legal position, namely that the sovereignty in respect of these areas is in the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. 
As I recall it, the second part of the honourable member's question relates to internal waters. The Bill provides, 1 think clearly enough for anyone who reads it carefully to understand, that it will have no application to internal waters as they existed at federation. The Commonwealth does not have it in mind to assert, and the Bill does not so provide, any sovereignty over internal waters such as Sydney Harbour or Port Phillip. In answer to a question without notice I cannot deal specifically with the honourable member's point concerning areas marked on existing maps. As I do not have the maps in my mind's eye, I think it would be rather perilous for me to attempt to answer that part of the question. If the honourable member wishes me to do so, I shall certainly look into it and give him an answer either informally outside the House or on notice. I forbear answering the comment which with due respect to the honourable member was perhaps rather in the nature of a rhetorical comment and which was contained in the last part of his question. 
 Mr Speaker,  you and other honourable members may think that this debate has taken a somewhat unusual course. The speech made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was notable for its lack of any substantial reference to the fundamental provisions of this Bill which, of course, arc those which substitute new sanction provisions of a more moderate character for what were thought to be, and with justification in the light of evidence, the rather draconian sanction provisions that are enshrined in sections 109 and the following two or three sections of the Act. I was most interested in the course followed by the honourable member for Hindmarsh in the debate this afternoon. He made scant reference to the undoubted fact that the Bill proposes an amendment of an enlightened character to the sanctions provisions of the Act. Instead of dwelling upon this fact, which from the viewpoint of his Party is of course an inconvenient one, he treated us to a long disquisition upon the alleged iniquities of section 5 of the principal Act. 
I do not stand here this afternoon as an apologist for section 5 in its present form. It would be idle to deny that section 5 could be improved. But that is not the subject we are here to debate this afternoon. We are here to debate the amendments that the Bill will make to the sanctions provisions of the Act, these provisions which have been the subject of so much controversy in the world of industry and in the trade union movement. 
The honourable member suggests by interjection that section 5 could have been amended on the run, on the wing as it were. 1 am not the Minister responsible for the administration of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, but I think it is fairly clear from the documents which the honourable member for Hindmarsh read out this afternoon that amendments to section 5 of the Act appear to be under the close scrutiny of my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden).  I know it is easy always to complain that it takes time - and too much time - to get what are thought to be anomalies in statutes remedied or amended. One is used to hearing that complaint. The honourable member for Hindmarsh would be one of the first to recognise that the difficulties in relation to amendments of statutes are caused by a shortage of draftsmen. As he knows, the Government has taken steps in statutory form to remedy that shortage by having passed in this session the Parliamentary Counsel Bill, which comes into force today. 
What surprised me about the attitude adopted by the honourable member for Hindmarsh was that while he railed against section 5 and drew attention to what he claimed to be manifest defects in il we have the extraordinary fact - extraordinary in the light of his complaints - that although the Opposition has proposed a number of amendments to the Bill it has not proposed a single amendment to section 5 of the principal Act There is nothing in either the short title or the long title of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1970 which would preclude the honourable member for Hindmarsh from proposing an amendment to section 5. I take it that the honourable member would consider it no discourtesy to him if I drew attention to what is probably very obvious; namely, in formulating the amendments which are proposed to be moved in Committee this afternoon, the honourable gentleman had resort, and properly so, to the services of one of the parliamentary draftsmen. I do nol want to know what went on between the parliamentary draftsman and the honourable member for Hindmarsh, but I would have thought that if the complaints that have been voiced today are as deeply felt as the honourable member wanted to persuade us they are he might have invoked a little further the services of the draftsman to draw some amendments to that section. But not so. No amendment to section 5 is proposed. 
What is the lesson to be drawn from this? I do not want to be hard on the honourable member for Hindmarsh at this hour after long days of sittings. Tiredness perhaps produces charity. 
The honourable member is very difficult to fool. I think the lesson to be drawn from the approach adopted by the honourable member for Hindmarsh is simply this: In order to avoid a discussion upon what is a very enlightened measure, namely, a modification of the sanctions provisions, he tried to lead the House down a rather sterile sidetrack. It would have been much more interesting, I suggest, for the House, for industry and for the trade union movement if we heard a little more from the honourable member as to his Party's attitude towards the newly proposed sanctions provisions which are substituted for the old contempt provisions which are set out in section 18. 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  in his contribution to the debate did not really grasp the principal question raised by this Bill, that is, the appropriateness and the suitability of the new sanctions provisions. He made a few passing references to the question. I thought he was rather guarded and his speech demonstrates the difficulty that the Opposition has in doing anything but refraining from criticism of the newly proposed sanctions provisions. I doubt whether the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions will be deliriously delighted when he reads of the contributions to the debate made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh and the honourable member for Stirling because we did not hear either of those honourable members come out and make an outright denunciation of the sanctions provisions in any form. Of course, that has been the refrain persistently indulged in by certain prominent people in the trade union movement, including the  President  of the ACTU. I do not criticise him for putting his view. He is fully entitled to do that. But. of course, the Government and the Parliament are entitled to judge as to the correctness of such a view and to my mind there is no doubt whatsoever as to what the judgment must be. 
No system of conciliation and arbitration in relation to industrial disputes can work unless at the ultimate stage there is some sort of sanction against disobedience of awards. A law which becomes unenforceable becomes meaningless and in truth no law at all. Therefore, 1 think this is recognised sub silentio by the Opposition this afternoon; this is implicit in the attitude that its leading speakers have taken in this debate. In their hearts they know that no system of industrial arbitration will ever be workable unless sanctions are available as a matter of last resort. I refer here not only to sanctions against employees or employees organisations but equally importantly to sanctions against employers and employers' organisations. I can never understand the attitude - I think that most people who would like to be considered as having commonsense can never understand the a Kit tide - which is taken up by prominent people in the trade union movement. Again, they are entitled to take up the attitude just as I am entitled to criticise it. The attitude that there must be no sanctions or penal provisions applicable to employees but that sanctions or penal provisions should nevertheless remain and apply against employers seems to overlook the well known principle that sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. But I believe that at bottom we can say that it has been revealed in this debate this afternoon that the Opposition, in the person of its 2 leading speakers - led, of course, by the shadow Minister for Labour and National Service - recognises that so far as the sanctions provisions are concerned the game is up. 
It is recognised implicitly that the old sanctions provisions - depending upon bans clause, injunction and then contempt procedure - have been replaced well and in an enlightened way by carefully thought out new sanctions provisions which will elevate the processes of conciliation at a final stage before enforcement action is allowed to be taken. The critical feature of this Bill is that it elevates in importance the process of conciliation in the attempt to settle what might be described as the ultimate or critical stages of an industrial dispute. This is done by the interposition, as required by the Bill, of a presidential member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission before enforcement action, by way of a prosecution for breach of a compliance provision in an award, can be taken. 
That is not the only enlightened feature of this Bill. It is also important, I believe, that the House should observe that the penalty for daily disobedience or infringement of an industrial award is reduced by half - from a daily maximum of $1,000 to a daily maximum of $500. The honourable member for Hindmarsh, when he was dealing with this question of the amount of penalties, overlooked the very important feature that the amounts expressed in the Bill are, just as were the amounts expressed in the Act, maximums and not the only amounts that can be levied by way of penalty. 
The honourable member says so. All I say in reply is that, whilst 1 have not the statistics in front of me. my recollection would not accord with the honourable member's statement made to me across the table. I believe that it will be found that in dealing with contempt applications under the old provisions - the provisions that are proposed to be replaced by the new provisions - the Commonwealth Industrial Court did exercise a good measure of discretion as to the amount of the fine. 
Of course, in the light of recent history it was not a sufficient discretion because to exercise a discretion as to the amount of the fine does not achieve the objective that the Government sees as an objective necessary to be achieved, namely, that before enforcement procedures are taken at all there should be some procedure by which the merits of a dispute can be looked into and fully examined by a presidential member of the Commission so that - one can well imagine this happening - in a case in which there has been a stoppage of work in disobedience of a bans clause or a compliance clause in the relevant award, a presidential member of the Commission, perhaps, can mould his approach to the case so as to render it impracticable or impossible for an employer, whose conduct in relation to the events giving rise to the stoppage has not been altogether meritorious, to have resort to the sanctions provisions. That is the sort of objective - a very important objective it is - that the new sanction provisions are designed to obtain. 
Let us be clear: Most people of responsibility - it would be unfair to use the absolute term 'all' and to say 'all people of responsibility'- on both sides of politics and on both sides of what we still regard as the industrial fence - labour and employers - recognise in their heart of hearts that an effective system of industrial operation cannot be attained without some form of sanctions. 
If the honourable member for Hindmarsh says that he does not agree with that, it is rather strange that he did not say so a little more explicitly in his speech. 
The honourable member says that he did not have time. He had a lot of time. In fact, I think he took 30 minutes of his allotted 45 minutes in dealing with section 5 of the Act which he has not even troubled to deal with by way of amendment. If that is not, if I may use a polite term, a little smokescreen, I do not know what is. I was going to say, before my honourable friend's friendly interruption, that most people with a responsible attitude - I am not suggesting that the honourable member for Hindmarsh has not a responsible attitude; he is fully entitled to his view - on either side of the industrial and political fences know and recognise in their heart of hearts that sanctions must be available if an effective system of conciliation and arbitration is to operate. I refer to sanctions at the end of the road - the end of the road that nobody wants to reach or should want to reach, but nevertheless the end of the road which is reached in the cut and thrust, as it sometimes is, of industrial life. 
The need for sanctions was recognised expressly by a great figure in the industrial world,  Mr Albert  Monk, in 1963.  Mr Monk  is a man whose views are entitled to the utmost respect. Because of his conduct and performance as  President  of the Austraiian Council of Trade Unions for so many years, he is entitled to our warmest and deepest respect. I remind the House that, as reported in the Melbourne 'Age' of 18th September 1963,  Mr Monk  said: 
You cannot - and I have seen it tried in various parts of the world - try to bring about complete repeal of legislation by strike action. 

 Mr Monk was talking about the repeal of the sanctions provisions. He went on to say, apparently at the same time because it is reported in the same newspaper article: 
Try to bring about a complete revocation and you run into trouble. 
The revocation about which  Mr Monk  was speaking was the revocation of the sanction provisions, or the penal clauses as they have sometimes been called, in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. They are the views of a man who is entitled to the utmost respect having regard to his service to the trade union movement and to his vast experience. 
He is not the only person on the Labor side of politics or on the employees' side of industry who has similar views. Let us not forget that the contempt procedure for enforcing an award is to be found, I think, in its original form in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act of 1947, which was introduced by the Chifley Government. Under the 1947 Act, the penalty for contempt of court constituted by breach of injunction enjoining disobedience to an award was unlimited. The hour is late. We all want to go home. I think that I have spoken long enough - or probably too long. 1 therefore conclude by expressing my support for the Bill. I simply say this: lt is not of itself the millenium. It will be a most valuable measure if both sides - that is, employers and labour - recognise the worth of its provisions and try in a spirit of mutual cooperation, forebearance and tolerance to make it work. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence Of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard my second reading speech. It reads: 
This is a Bill for an Act to amend certain provisions of the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act 1959-1962, which prescribes the liability of airline operators in the event of accidents occurring in the course of international and domestic aircraft operations. The right to recover damages arising from travel on international flights is primarily regulated by the Warsaw Convention made in 1929 and the Hague Protocol to that Convention made in 1955. Australia is one of many countries participating in these international agreements, which are given the force of law in Australia by the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act. In addition, Part IV of the Act applies similar conditions to operations by the holders of domestic airline licences, and it is in this regard that the Government proposes the amendments incorporated in this Bill. The basic Warsaw principle, as applied to Australian domestic operations under Part IV of the Act, is that a carrier is liable for assessed damages sustained by reason of the death or personal injury of a passenger resulting from an aircraft accident. This liability of the carrier exists whether the accident was due to negligence on the part of the carrier or not, but the court may adjust the damages payable if it is proved that the passenger caused or contributed to the damages. The Act limits the liability of the carrier in respect of each passenger to $15,000. 
This limit of liability is approximately equivalent to the one specified for international operations in the Hague Protocol of 1955. In recent years the International Civil Aviation Organisation has been studying whether the limit of liability and other provisions of the Warsaw Convention should be reviewed, and it is now proposed to hold an international conference early in 1971 for (his purpose. The conference will have before it a proposal to raise the. international limit of liability to $89,000. In the meantime, following indications by the United States Government that it was dissatisfied with the existing limit in relation to international services to and from that country, the airlines operating those services agreed with the United States authorities, as an interim measure, that they would accept a limit of liability of $52,000 for international passengers embarking or disembarking in the United States or passing through that country. 
The Government gave careful consideration to these moves in the international aviation world when assessing what would be an appropriate limit of carriers' liability for Australian domestic air services in present circumstances. The figures mentioned are related primarily to economic conditions in the United States, where personal incomes and damages awarded in accident cases are at a much higher level than they are here. Accordingly, the Government concluded that an increase of this order in the Australian domestic limit could not be justified at the present time. As the nominal average weekly earnings of adult males in Australia have approximately doubled since 1955, when the basis for the existing limit was established, the Government proposes that the same change be made in this limit of liability, that is to say, an increase from $15,000 to $30,000. This will cost the airlines some $250,000 per annum in additional insurance premiums. If the proposed international conference results in a new convention or protocol or carriers' liability, the Government will consider whether it is appropriate for Australia to become a party to it, in which case a suitable proposal will be submitted to the Parliament. This will also provide an opportunity to review again the domestic limit of liability in the light of what is decided internationally. 
I should emphasise that the maximum amounts of compensation specified by the Act, as well as by the Warsaw Convention and Hague Protocol, are not automatic entitlements. An injured passenger, or the dependants of a deceased passenger, claiming compensation from an airline whose aircraft is involved in an accident, must prove that damage has been suffered by reason of the accident, and the amount of damages is assessed in accordance with the ordinary principles of law. When the assessed damages are less than the maximum amount mentioned in the Act, they are recoverable in full. Otherwise, the carrier's liability is limited to that amount. I would also point out that these arrangements and limits refer only to the liability of the air carrier to the passenger or his dependant. They do not require the carrier to insure against this liability, although as a matter of . prudence this is normally done, nor do they prevent a passenger from insuring his life or person quite independently for any additional amount he chooses. There are similar provisions in the Act relating to damage or loss of passengers' luggage. The present limit of carriers' liability for registered baggage, that is baggage checked in with the airline and carried in the aircraft hold, is $200, and that for hand baggage, carried into the aircraft by the passenger, is $20. The Government proposes that these limits be raised to S300 and $30 respectively. Here again, these are maximum amounts recoverable on proof of damages, but if the luggage of a passenger is worth more than these amounts he has ready access to insurance facilities and can cover himself against loss for the full value. 
As I have indicated earlier, the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act applies only to the carriage of passengers and baggage in aircraft operated by the holders of airline licences under the Air Navigation Regulations. This includes passengers carried on airline charter flights as well as on their regular services. The rights of passengers on air taxi flights, charter flights and joy rides conducted by the holders of charter licences only, however, depend on common law and the terms of the contract between the passenger and the carrier. Commuter service operators hold charter licences and have been exempted from holding airline licences under powers conferred on the Director-General of Civil Aviation by the Air Navigation Regulations. In granting such exemptions, the DirectorGeneral has required the operators to contract with their commuter passengers to accept liability for death or injury to the same extent as if Part IV of the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act applied to the carriage. This is not an entirely satisfactory method of achieving adequate protection for commuter passengers. With the general charter operators, it is common to contract out of all liability for death or injury to passengers by including appropriate conditions on the tickets. Whether such provisions are legally effective may be open to question, but on the face of things many passengers carried by charter operators may have no redress in the event of accidents. 
The Government cannot see any justification for treating passengers of the airlines and the charter firms any differently in respect to the carriers' liability arrangements, and the Bill includes amendments which will apply the Act to all chaner flights and commuter services subject to the Act. As with the airlines, this will involve the charter operators in higher insurance costs. On this last point, as will be seen from a perusal of Part IV of the Act. for constitutional reasons its provisions are not applicable to intrastate services, except in the case of those operated by Trans- Australia Airlines. In order to cover this situation, the Government arranged for the various States to enact legislation which effectively extends the rules under Part IV of the Act to intrastate operations. The Stale Premiers have been advised of the Commonwealth's present proposals and they have indicated their willingness lo amend their legislation correspondingly insofar as this is necessary, both in respect of the inclusion of all charter operations in the arrangements and the increases in the limits of liability. 
Sections 14 and 37 of the Act preserve the liability of a carrier to indemnify the employer of a passenger in respect of his commitments under workers' compensation legislation. The Queensland Workers' Compensation Act, however, differs from the legislation in other States, as it does not impose a liability on the employer to pay compensation, the injured worker recovering directly from the State Government Insurance Office. The Premier of Queensland has asked that the Act be amended to preserve the right of the Government Insurance Office to recover from the airline any compensation paid to an employee or his dependants in appropriate cases, so that the position in Queensland will be comparable with that applicable elsewhere. In considering this particular matter it has been concluded that the sections concerned should also be modified to cover the position where a person liable to pay workers' compensation is not necessarily the employer of the person injured or killed and to ensure that they are effective in all cases where this type of compensation, however described, is payable. Clauses 3 and 7 of the Bill are designed to achieve all of these objectives. 
Some publicity has been given to a proposal by the Government to introduce a system of automatic interim payments to the dependent spouse and children of passengers killed in aircraft accidents. It is believed this will represent a significant improvement in the carriers' liability arrangements, and the Government will submit suitable legislation to the Parliament to give effect to the proposal as soon as possible. It has not been practicable to do so at this time as certain legal aspects require further attention, but it was considered desirable to proceed with the basic amendments now included in the Bill rather than delay them until a later session of Parliament The Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act is a significant legislative measure in the functioning of the civil aviation industry in Australia. It affords protection to passengers and their dependants on the one hand and to the operators on the other, and is based on principles recognised throughout the world. The amendments now submitted for consideration by the Parliament are aimed at improving the Act in certain important respects - in particular in relation to the limits of liability and the extension to all charter flights. I commend the Bill. 
Leave granted for debate to continue. 
Briefly 1 wish to make the Government's position known on the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Bill. I think my friend the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  will know the position already because he will have picked it up from the debate in the Senate. 
Yes. 
1 do not suggest for one moment that what the honourable member for Newcastle has said in his speech in the second reading debate ought not to engage the attention of the Government. Please do not let it be thought that I am endeavouring in any way to dismiss lightly what the honourable member has said. The Government must tread carefully in this field because an international convention is involved. We do not want to take any unilateral action which might be construed as a denunciation of an international convention by which we are bound. An international conference on this and other questions involving international civil aviation is to be held in early 1971. At that conference amendments to the Warsaw Convention will be taken into considera tion. Australia will participate in the conference. Indeed, it has had a representative on the committee of the International Civil Aviation Organisation which has been instrumental in examining proposals which will be put to the conference. In the meantime the Government will consider its position on the limit of liability in regard to international flights. That may not be as much comfort or satisfaction as the honourable member for Newcastle may wish but it may go some of the way towards meeting his point. I am afraid, however, that this is as far as the Government can go. We reject the proposed amendment. 
 The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  was good enough to outline the nature of the amendments he proposed to move, and now has moved, when he made his second reading speech. He will be aware of the Government's attitude because it was declared by my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  in the Senate when the Bill which originated in that chamber was debated there. Very briefly, speaking as the Government, we are unable to accept the amendment. My honourable friend will agree that I had given the Committee something of a clue to the reasons when I indicated why we proposed to reject the Opposition's amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. 
In short, the amendments propose a fundamental change in the legislation. They propose a radical departure from worldwide practice in aviation which has tended to move away from a situation where the plaintiff has to prove negligence on the part of the carrier and to replace, and not supplement, this common law principle or arrangement with a situation of automatic liability. What the amendments really propose is that a passenger should have the best of both worlds. At present, having regard to international practice, the Government feels unable to go along with the Opposition's detailed proposal. I doubt whether I need say any more at this stage, because those members of the Committee who are familiar with the provisions of the Bill and of the detailed amendments which have been moved by the Opposition would have gathered fully the reasons from a perusal of the Senate Hansard. 
May I with your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  raise a point of procedure on this Bill and the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill 1970? I suggest that the 2 Bills be treated as cognate measures. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard as my second reading speech the second reading speech of my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  It reads: The purpose of this Bill is to repeal section 66 of the Australian National Airlines Act. This section of the Act provides that in any action brought against the Australian National Airlines Commission to recover damages for death or injury, other than in cases subject to the Civil Aviation (Damage by Aircraft) Act or the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover more than $15,000, this limit being related to that specified in the latter Act. In an action not covered by the 2 Acts mentioned, therefore, such as one arising from an accident caused by the Trans-Australia airlines vehicle, the plaintiff firstly has to prove negligence on the part of the Commission and also has a ceiling on the amount of damages he can recover. 
This is quite contrary to the normal common law situation, where negligence has to be proved but there is no limit on the damages recoverable. It also differs from the carriers liability legislation principle, whereby the damages are subject to a limitation but the plaintiff does not have to prove negligence. In effect, section 66 results in an injured party having two constraints on his ability to recover reasonable damages. A similar provision existed formerly in the Commonwealth Railways Act, and the Parliament repealed the relevant section in 1968. 
As the limit of liability in section 66 of the Australian National Airlines Act is related to that specified in the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act, and the latter is to be amended, the Government has considered what action should be taken concerning this section. It has concluded that the Australian National Airlines Commission should not be in a specially favoured position in this respect, and proposes that section 66 be repealed, as was done in the case of the comparable section in the Commonwealth Railways Act. I commend the Bill. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second  time. 
With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard as my second reading speech a copy of the second reading speech of my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  This Bill replaces the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill 1970, introduced in the House on 19th March 1970 but which has now been withdrawn. That Bill was consequential on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970 and the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill 1970 and will be reintroduced at a later time as the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Bill (No. 2) 1970. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make amendments to the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Liability) Act consequent upon the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Bill 1970. The amendments raise the limit of liability quoted in sections 8 and 14 of the Act to keep the maximum liability of the Commonwealth or Commonwealth authorities for death or personal injury of air passengers in line with the new limit proposed in the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Bill. I commend the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 There are two Communist parties in Australia, the Communist Party of Australia, and the Communist Party of Australia (Marxist/Leninist). Laurence Aarons, the National Secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, recently said that current Communist Party of Australia membership is about 4,500. However, Rupert Lockwood, an ex-Communist Party of Australia member, was reported in The Australian' of 24th January 1970 to have said that there would be no more than 3,000 card carrying members of the Communist Party of Australia. I have no information as to the number of members of the Communist Party of Australia (Marxist/Leninist) butI believe the number of members to be small. 
The answer to the honurable member's question is as follows: (1). (2), (3) and (4) In order to sipply answers to these questions it would be necessary to conduct extensive research into a variety of Territory, State and municipal laws, none of which is under my administration. My Department does not have the resources to undertake that research. 1 am not aware what consideration is being given to these laws by the relevant Commonwealth and Stale Ministers. 
I answer the question in the affirmative. The question of legislating to overcome the difficulties created by Worthing's case received close attention at the last meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General in luly. At that meeting 2 committees were set up. One was a committee of draftsmen or - on a Commonwealth level - parliamentary counsel, and the other was a policy committee. They are committees representative of the Commonwealth and of the States. They have met frequently both alone and together. Indeed, I understand that there is a meeting of both committees in Melbourne this week. Out of their deliberations I expect that there soon will come to me and to my colleagues in the States proposals for legislation. I shall consider those proposals as a manner of urgency, of course, because a situation of very considerable difficulty is posed by the decision in Worthing's case. 
If I may say so, I share and have at all times shared the concern just expressed by the honourable member for Balaclava for the preservation of law and order. Perhaps it might be thought that nothing concentrates the mind so wonderfully upon this topic as being under the necessity to defend one's home and one's children against a wanton invasion by people who can only be described as idiotic vandals intent upon defacing one's property. 
Do you support them? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Provision has been made for suitable Court, Chambers and Library accommodation in the newly erected A.M.P. Building at 1 King Street, Adelaide. That accommodation is independent of the facilities of the Supreme Court of South Australia and of the South Australian Industrial Commission. 
The accommodation became available for occupation on 15th December 1969. 
On 23rd July 1964 the  President  expressed his dissatisfaction with the premises occupied by the South Australian District Registry at 45 Flinders Street. Adelaide. That accommodation had one small Court room, suitable only for a Commissioner sitting alone. On 17th May 1965 the Registry occupied new premises at 50 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, which include two Court rooms one of which can be, and has been, used for a sitting of the Commonwealth Concililation and Arbitration Commission in Appeals Session. 
The answer to the honour-' able member's question is as follows: 
The last published volume of Commonwealth Arbitration Reports includes judgments of the Commonwealth Industrial Court and awards, orders and decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission issued up to 31st December 1966. A further volume, which includes all judgments, etc. issued up to 31st March 1967, is in the hands of the Printer. 
For some years, each published volume of the Commonwealth Arbitration Reports has covered a period of 3 to 4 months only, and has been published in two parts, with all judgments, awards, etc. issued during that period begin printed in Part 1. Whilst progressive publication of Part1 would be possible, it is not clear that any appreciable advantage could be gained from this, as much of the delay in editing is attributable to the need to prepare the various indices, etc., that render a volume of reports more useful than a collection of reports in pamphlet form. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although some decisions, awards and orders of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have not been available in printed pamphlet form for periods of up to twelve months, the average delay now rarely exceeds six months. Awards and decisions which are likely to be of greater importance than others, or those for which there is likely to be greater demand than normal, are given priority in printing and are available in pamphlet form about three months after the decision has been issued. 
For the twelve months ended 31 March 1970, about 950 Commission decisions, awards or orders will be printed. Of these, about 200 have been printed in pamphlet form and about 100 have been proof-read and returned with corrections to the Printer for final printing. About 350 orders were made during December 1969-January 1970 as a consequence of the National Wage Case of 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 30th April 1970, 42 of the judgments of the Commonwealth Industrial Court which are normally printed, were not available in printed pamphlet form. Fifteen of those judgments were delivered in 1968, 23 in 1969 and the remainder in 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Tenth Annual Report of the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission dated 15th December 1966, and tabled on 18th May 1967. 
19th September, 1967. 
and (4) Additional positions recommended were approved in two stages, the first group in October 1967, andthe second group in March 1968. However, since that time, in addition to growth of about 15% in the normal business of the Commission, the. Flight Crew Officers' Tribunal was established and the printing of its awards is processed by the Printing Section of the Registry. A further review of staffing needs in this area will be undertaken before the end of this year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Staffing difficulties have caused delays in editing the reports. Commonwealth Arbitration Reports are now edited by the Publications Officer in the Principal Industrial Registry, who spends the major part of his working time on this task. However, as a result of staff changes, it was necessary to transfer the Publications Officer to another important "position in the Principal Registry early this year. In that position he had only limited time available for editing. Anew Publications Officer was appointed but did not take up duty until August this year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On5 occasions. 
Yes, see my answer to question 467. 
PharmaceuticalDrugs (Question No. 1095) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest information with respect to the Australian Capital Territory is to be found in Tables 116, 117 and 118 of the Australian Capital Territory Statistical Summary for the year 1969. The latest information with respect to the Northern Territory is to be found in Tables 103 and 104 of the Northern Territory Statistical Summary for the year 1969. Statistics in respect of the Ter- ritories for the year ten years earlier are to be found in Chapter XVI of the Commonwealth Year Book for the year 1959. 
The information sought with respect to the position in the States is not a matter that falls within my administration. However, information with respect to the States is published in the Commonwealth Year Books for the relevant years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am able to answer this question only so far as concerns the Commonwealth Police Force, which is the only police force that falls within my administration. As at 31 May 1970, 868 male police officers, 4 female police officers and 85 civilian staff were employed by the Commonwealth Police Force. The amount of $3,750,000 for salaries and $486,330 for administrative expenses was appropriated for the Force for the year 1969-70. Certain of the information sought as to State and Territory police may be found in Chapter 16 of the Commonwealth Year Book. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)(a) Informants and complainants are interviewed not for the purpose of discovering the merits of their cases, but to ensure that their causes are within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Industrial Court and. for that purpose, some indication of the facts may be necessary. 
No. 
No. 
Yes. Informants invariably supply affidavits without being so requested. The view that the summons has to be supported by an affidavit at the time of its issue, and certainty at the time of its service, was expressed by  Mr Justice  Kerr in 1969 in proceedings in the 
Commonwealth Industrial Court involving the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and Bums Philp &amp; Co. Ltd. 
Yes. On one recent occasion, the Deputy Industrial Registrar, Sydney, declined to issue a Summons on two grounds: firstly, that neither the information nor the summons stated the section of the Act against which the offence was alleged; and, secondly, that the affidavit filed in support merely stated that the facts in the information were true. The information contained only the allegation that a specified disadvantage had been suggested to the informants in contravention of the Act. 
Regulations S3, 37 and 76. 
, (5) and (6) The duties of an officer of the Court in receiving a complaint and issuing a summons were referred to in a recent judgment of the Court of Appeal of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in a judgment given on 4th July 1969 (ex parte Qantas Airways Limited: re Horsington and Another). The conclusions expressed by Sugerman, J. A. in relation to the duties of Justices of the Peace also express the general basis upon which Registrars of the Commonwealth Industrial Court act in similar matters. 
In no instance, of which I am aware, has this impeded the access of litigants to the Commonwealth Industrial Court. Since informants are invariably assisted by a solicitor from the beginning of the action, the additional cost of preparing an affidavit which, in any case, is required at the hearing before the Court, cannot result in any unfair or unnecessary burden of costs. 
In the instance referred to in answer (2) the replacement affidavit, which was provided within 24 hours, was a simple statement of facts involving the addition of six short paragraphs to the original affidavit. 
I move: 
The Bill now before the House extends the operation of the Urea Bounty Act 1966-1969 for a maximum period of 6 months to 31st December 1970 unless an earlier date of cessation is specified by proclamation. Under the existing Act, bounty ceased to be payable after 30th June 1970. The Sulphate of Ammonia Bounty Act 1962-1969 also expired on 30th June 1970, and I shall shortly introduce a similar Bill to extend that Act for a further period of 6 months. Urea and sulphate of ammonia are both nitrogenous fertilizers and I shall deal with the reason for the extension of the 2 Acts in this speech. 
The Tariff Board recently completed its review of the urea and sulphate of ammonia industries and has forwarded its report to the Minister for Trade and Industry. The bounty legislation is being extended to ensure that assistance to both these industries is maintained until the Government has completed its examination of the Tariff Board's report. The annual financial limits on the total amount of bounty payable will be retained. These are the equivalent of $500,000 in a full year for urea and$1m in a full year for sulphate of ammonia. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That  the  Bill  be  now read a  second time. 
It is proposed to extend the operation of the Sulphate of Ammonia Bounty Act 1962-1969 for a maximum period of 6 months to 31st December 1970 unless an earlier date of cessation is specified by proclamation. The purpose of the Bill is to implement this proposal. I have already outlined the reasons for this extension in my speech concerning the extension of the Urea Bounty Act. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read a second  time. 
The Bill now before the House extends the operation of the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Act 1954-1969 for a further maximum period of 6 months to 31st December 1970, unless an earlier date of cessation is specified by proclamation. Under the existing Act bounty ceased to be payable after 30th June 1970. The Pyrites Bounty Act 1960-1969 also expired on 30th June 1970 and I shall shortly introduce a similar Bill to extend that Act for a further period of 6 months. 
The sulphuric acid and pyrites industries are closely allied. Bounty is paid in certain circumstances on iron pyrites received into a sulphuric acid manufacturer's premises for the purpose of being used in that manufacture and is also paid on the sulphuric acid produced from the pyrites. In addition, sulphuric acid bounty is paid on the acid produced from lead sinter gas. Because of this close alliance, 1 shall deal with the reason for the extension ofboth Acts in this speech. The Tariff Board has recently completed a review of the sulphuric acid and pyrites industries and has forwarded its report to the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Government considers that the present level of assistance to the industry should be maintained until it has completed its examination of the report. Accordingly the sulphuric acid bounty legislation is being extended to 31st December1 970 or to an earlier proclaimed date. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is proposed to extend the operation of the Pyrites Bounty Act 1960-1969 for a further maximum period of 6 months to 31st December 1970 unless an earlier date of cessation is specified by Proclamation. The purpose of this Bill is to implement this proposal. I have already outlined the reasons for this extension in my speech concerning the extension of the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Act. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House extends the operation of the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act 1 956-1969 for a maximum period of 6 months from 1st July 1970 to 31st December 1970 unless an earlier date of cessation is specified by proclamation. Under present legislation the bounty period expired on 30th June 1970. The Tariff Board has reviewed the industry and has submitted its report to the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Government considers that the present level of assistance to the industry should be maintained until it has completed its examination of the Tariff Board's report. Accordingly the operation of the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty legislation is being extended to 31st December 1970 or an earlier proclaimed date. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the first question is yes, 1 do know the industry concerned. The answer to the second question is that T would like to consider whether T ought to reveal it or whether it would be beyond my proper function to do so. I will give that matter my very early consideration. The answer to the third question is this: I have a pretty clear idea as to the attitude of my colleagues in States where there are non-Labor governments towards the proposals that have been made for complementary legislation. One does not persist in asking questions to which one knows the answers. T have not specifically asked the question for reasons which, 1 believe, will be apparent to my honourable friend. 
The investigations have indeed continued. They have been quite extensive in their scope in that a number of persons have been interviewed. I have been informed that the results of these investigations will be made available for my consideration early next week. I shall give the documents which I expect to be submitted to me my immediate consideration with a view to deciding whether prosecutions should be launched. 
The honourable member for Griffith has referred to a letter which I wrote to him a week or so ago. My recollection of what is in the letter, if I may say so, does not exactly accord with the substance of it as he gave it to the House. I rather think that I said - and the honourable member will correct me if I am wrong - that although I had not made a final decision on the question my inclination was against authorising a prosecution in the case of  Mrs Berman.  I did refer in my tetter to certain considerations or factors concerning that case which quite frankly troubled me. One of those factors was that it had been reported to me that the lady concerned was suffering from the terminal stages of a fatal disease, and I would not be the first Attorney-General to manifest some disinclination to prosecute a person in that condition. There is another consideration which has to be weighed in deciding this question. It is this: Any prosecution for an alleged infringement of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act would have to be instituted in the Supreme Court of the State in which the offence is alleged to have been committed or, at any rate, if not in the Supreme Court in a court of summary jurisdiction in that State. Under the law as it stands the position is that in such a prosecution the law to be applied relating to procedure and evidence is, by virtue of the provisions of section 79 of the Judiciary Act, the law applicable in the State. That means that in the State of Victoria, assuming I were to institute a prosecution against  Mrs Berman,  there is a statute which protects her in criminal proceedings against the use of any alleged admissions she may have made in the recently held abortion inquiry in Victoria. That statute would operate to preclude the use of evidence in a Commonwealth prosecution. All I say - and I hope the House will bear with me on this - is that the considerations to which I have adverted do, to my mind anyway, place substantial obstacles - I do not say they are 
Irremovable but I am incined to think they may be - in the way of a prosecution. I know that the honourable member has a particular zeal for the proper enforcement of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act which, as far as I am concerned - I say this without in any way wishing to be patronising - is quite commendable. He has referred to 2 cases which he has already taken up with me. He asked me in effect why I have not prosecuted in these cases. One of them was a case which arose before I came to office, and it was dealt with by my predecessor. I do not wish, and it would not be proper for me. to canvass my predecessor's previously concluded judgment in that case, which was one in which he decided not to prosecute. As to the other case, I want to make it quite clear - because the honourable member has been concerned about it - that was one in which the only evidence possible as a ground of prosecution far breach of the Act was an alleged admission which was withdrawn by the person concerned almost as soon as or very soon after it had been made, lt would be a very adventurous undertaking to institute a prosecution far a serious criminal offence upon that evidence alone, and that was the position that had to be considered. 
As 1 said, 1 appreciate the honourable members concern for the enforcement of this legislation. 1 have investigated the 2 cases to which the honourable member referred, the Queensland case and the Berman case which has arisen since I came to office. I have also investigated another case which arose in Sydney. I am as concerned as the honourable member is to see that this law is enforced but, on balance, I do not think I. will do much good in achieving that end by making declamatory statements of the kind the honourable member encourages me to make. 
Indeed I am aware of the very serious problem to which the honorable member referred in the preface to his question. I can inform him and the House that authority has been given by the Government for the drafting of legislation to preserve or revive the effective operation of rural debt adjustment schemes. This legislation will include provision for a stay of proceedings of any bankruptcy petition where there is a subsisting arrangement made under the authority of such a debt adjustment scheme. I expect that following a decision recently made by the Government along the lines I have mentioned instructions will soon be given to the Office of Parliamentary Counsel to commence drafting the legislation which it is intended to introduce in this sessional perod 
 I shall not detain the the House for long but I must rise to answer the criticisms levelled against me tonight by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  The premise upon which he offered the criticism of me seemed to be that 6 men were committeed to goal by a magistrate for contempt of court because they raised clenched firsts in court - the honourable member for Kingston seems to think they did it as a mark of respect - were treated unjustly by the magistrate and that their appeal to the court of appeal, which was rejected, should have succeeded. I do not want to canvass the merits of the case. I think the House would probably take the view, however, that we must face the fact that it was dealt with in the court of appeal and the magistrate's decision was upheld. I think it may not be altogether irrelevant to notice the premise or assumption upon which the honourable member proceeded in levelling his attack against me. The premise seemed to be that it was fair enough for defendants to raise their fists when brought before the court to answer charges. The assumption is that this was not a contempt. It seems to me to be a very curious notion. A person less charitable than I might be disposed to suspect that it throws some light upon the political sympathies of the honourable member for Kingston in relation to violent forms of unlawful protest. But I pass that by. The House can draw its own conclusion and 1 am pretty sure what it will be. But I do not offer a conclusion. 
The honourable member for Kingston omitted to state some rather relevant facts which 1 feel bound to put before the House. Last night he came to me in my office - I was pleased to see him - and he expressed his concern about the fact, so he alleged, that these 6 men in goal for contempt of court had been unable to get their case dealt with by a Full Bench of the High Court in the short time remaining between their application to the court by filing papers and the termination of their sentence. lt was quite obvious that he came to see me for the purpose of asking me to do something about the matter. I spent some time with the honourable member explaining to him that it was no part of my function as Attorney-General of the Commonwealth to intervene in any way so as to influence the justices of the High Court and, in particular, the Chief Justice of the High Court, who disposes the Court's administration. I explained that it was no part of my function as Commonwealth AttorneyGeneral to influence the Chief Justice or the justices of the High Court as to how they disposed of their business or ran the list of their cases. The honourable member for Kingston and I had a polite and cordial conversation. He seemed quite clearly to accept that fact when I gave it to him privately. 
The second point that I canvassed by way of volunteering it in this conversation about these. young men for whom he was concerned, for some reason, was that their proper course, if they wanted to get out of gaol before the termination of their sentences, was to apply to the Minister in New South Wales - and I named him - who is responsible for recommending to the Governor of New South Wales how the prerogative of mercy shall be exercised. It seemed quite plain to me that the honourable member for Kingston accepted that fact. I almost sensed gratitude coming from him - indicated by him - for the fact that I had volunteered this information. 
I made it perfectly plain to the honourable member, as I make it plain to the House tonight, that the offences for which these men are in gaol are State offences. I have nothing whatever to do by way of ministerial responsibility with their release or any application for their release from gaol. I am quite certain that the honourable member for Kingston will not deny that I have truly stated to the House the substance of the conversation I had with him in my office last night. I repeat that explanation to the House and give the House my assurance that the explanation I gave in private to the honourable member last night is a true and fair one. I hope that the House will therefore acquit me of any charge that has been laid against me by the honourable member for Kingston tonight. 
Before concluding what I wanted to say I want to put a thought in the minds of honourable members. Why has the honourable member for Kingston, having received from me last night in my office the information which he did not then challenge, raised the matter in the House tonight? The House will draw its own conclusion. He has brought the matter up to make cheap political capital and because he is in sympathy with the unlawful and violent activities of these men who disgraced the court and the name of justice and who were rightly sent to gaol for a gross contempt. 

 Dr GUN (Kingston) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have already had preliminary consultations with one of my officers concerning the provisions of section 4 (2.) of the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act in particular. I have undertaken this investigation with a view to considering whether it would be useful or appropriate to amend the legislation so as to put in clear perspective the situation which we want the legislation to achieve. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Berowra respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider lo be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact thai historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay, and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than R0 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries n the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
Thai, in accordance wilh the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 1.4 November 1969. the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek lo ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of (tinto, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as lo preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The examination made by the Leader of the Opposition of the appropriations in this Budget is quite an accurate one. There are no appropriations. The setting up of a National Institute of Criminology and the associated Council and Fund was in fact agreed upon in principle, as the Leader of the Opposition has said, between the Commonwealth and the States some time ago. A great deal of detail was left to be worked out. This is  a  project which is of very great interest to me. Since my accession to this office of Attorney-General I have been progressing it as fast as I can. We have now reached the stage where instructions have been given to the Parliamentary Counsel to draft the appropriate legislation. There are matters of detail which still remain to be resolved between the Commonwealth and one State. I am hopeful that those matters can be resolved in the near future and that the legislation which is being drafted can soon be introduced. The position taken up by the New Zealand Government at present is that while it is interested in the work of the Institute it does not have it in mind for the time being to become a fully participating member. 
1 have read a newspaper report of some remarks attributed to my State colleague,  Dr Delamothe,  the Minister for Justice in Queensland. I. want to be quite restrained in my comments because 1 have merely read a newspaper report; 1 have not seen the Hansard report of his speech, and I will ask for it. But really it is nothing short of fanciful to suggest, if he has suggested - and the newspaper report would indicate that he has - that the decision of the High Court in Worthing's case has any application at all to the proposed legislation, which is designed to assert not ownership of the territorial sea - and that should be borne in mind - but Commonwealth legislative sovereignty over the territorial sea and continental shelf. I emphasise to the House that there is a world of difference between ownership, which is the concept that the Minister of Justice in Queensland has iri mind, and sovereignty, lt is quite erroneous in my judgment for the Minister for Justice of Queensland to suggest that State laws will cease to have any application when the Commonwealth legislation, that is, the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, is passed. The remarks attributed to the Minister for Justice of Queensland seem to overlook completely the provisions of clause 13b of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, because clause 13b expressly provides that nothing in the preceding provisions of the Bill is to be taken as limiting or excluding the operation of any law of a State in force at the date of the commencement of the Act. How it can be suggested in the face of that provision that some legislative chaos is to ensue if this Parliament passes the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill passes my capacity for comprehension. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present ag limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
If I may say so with respect to the honourable member, that question is a pretty wide one and I must confess I do not carry figures of that sort in my head. 
1 am sure the honourable member's criticism is well founded. 1 would ask him to put the question on the notice paper and I will give it my consideration. 
Quite frankly, I am not aware of the matters to which the honourable member has referred. In legislation of the kind to which he refers - if there be any such legislation - of course the questions to which he adverts would be given attention. 
 I must confess to being the person described in this newspaper article as a legal expert from Canberra. But I want to go on to say quite unequivocally that that part of the report- 
Will the honourable member give me a go? 
I would not need a bat for the honourable member. I would just need a puff of wind. When I was interrupted 1 was about to say that that part of the newspaper report which attributes to this legal expert the giving of some advice or instruction that a particular case should not be taken is quite ill-founded, lt is true that when 1 was in Port Moresby a few weeks ago - I think it was the weekend of 29th to 31st August - I did have a conference with the Secretary for Law and the Public Solicitor, who are respectively  Mr Curtis  and  Mr Lalor.  Various aspects of the problem arising in this series of tax cases were discussed between the three of us. I had this discussion as a result of a conversation which t had before leaving Canberra with the Prime Minister who was then, as the House will know, Acting Minister for External Territories. I am not able to answer the third part of the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. In fact I am not aware of any telegram such as he purported to summarise, so I will not deal with that part of the question. As to the fourth part of the question, I am aware that in the Territory there is no statute or statutory instrument defining the duties of the Public Solicitor.  His  duties are regulated by departmental instruction, the Public Solicitor being, as 1 understand it, part of the law department in the Territory. I think I have covered all aspects of the question and answered them as best I can. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Albania, Argentina, Belgium, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Italy, Liberia, Luxemburg, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, San Marino, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, United States, Uruguay, Yugoslavia. 
The Act applies to all the countries listed in (1) without any limitations, conditions, exceptions or qualifications. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A proper consideration of the matters raised by the honourable member would require a detailed examination of complex questions of law in areas that are not, as yet, fuly settled. It would not, in my opinion, be appropriate for .me to express views on those matters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) No additional legislative drafting officers have become employed since the enactment of the Parliamentary Counsel Act and none have left since then, although two officers have left since the legislation was announced in the Governor-General's speech. 
On 2 July 1970 the First Parliamentary Counsel submitted proposals to the Public Service Board for reclassification of all the professional positions in his office. The First Parliamentary Counsel understands that the Board wishes to discuss his proposals with him but is not yet ready to do so. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Air Navigation Act 1920-1966 
Airlines Agreement Act 1952-1961 
Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Act 1968 
Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Act 1969 
Airlines Equipment Act 1958 
Atomic Energy Act 1953-1966 
Australian Capital Territory Representation Act 1948-1966 
Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act 1933-1969 
Banking Act 1959-1967 
Bankruptcy Act 1966-1969 
Broadcasting and Television Act 1948-1969 
Christmas Island Act 1958-1966 
Civil Aviation (Damage by Aircraft) Act 1958 
Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act 1955-1966 
Commonwealth Electoral Act 1958-1966 
Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act 1930-1970 
Commonwealth Inscribed Slock Act 1911-1966 
Commonwealth Prisoners Act 1967 
Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1970 
Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act 1968 
Crimes Act 1914-1966 
Copyright Act 1968 
Courts-Martial Appeals Act 1955-1966 
Customs Act 1901-1968 
Defence Act 1903-1970 
Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1969 
Designs Act 1906-1968 
Estate Duty Assessment Act 1914-1970 
Evidence Act 1905-1964 
Excise Act 1901-1968 
Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Act 1966-1968 
Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966-1968 
Fisheries Act 1952-1968 
Gift Duty Assessment Act 1948-1967 
High Court Procedure Act 1903-1966 
Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1969 
Insurance Act 1932-1966 
Judiciary Act 1903-1969 
Lands Acquisition Act 1955-1966 
Life Insurance Act 1945-1965 
Liquid Fuel (Defence Stocks) Act 1949-1966 
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959-1966 
Migration Act 1958-1966 
National Health Act 1953-1970 
National Service Act 1951-1968 
Navigation Act 1912-1970 
Norfolk Island Act 1957-1969 
Northern Territory Representation Act 1922- 1968 
Northern Territory Supreme Court Act 1961- 1969 
Overseas Telecommunications Act 1946-1968 
Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948-68 
Patents Act 1952-1969 
Payroll Tax Assessment Act 1941-1969 
Post and Telegraph Act 1901-1968 
Removal of Prisoners (Territories) Act 1923- 1968 
Royal Commissions Act 1902-1966 
Sates Tax Assessment Act (No. 1) 1930-1966 
Seamen's Compensation Act 1911-1970 
Service and Execution of Process Act 1901-1968 
Stevedoring Industry Act 1956-1966 
Stevedoring Industry Act 1965 
Stevedoring Industry Charge Assessment Act 1947-1967 
Superannuation Act 1922-1969 
Trade Marks Act 1955-1966 
Trade Practices Act 1965-1969 
Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1968-1970 
Wool Industry Act 1962-1970 
Wool Tax (Administration) Act 1964-1966 
This is a rather flippant question, if 1 may say so. Insofar as the honourable member accuses me of some alleged breach of the Commonwealth Electoral Act I plead not guilty. No case of an alleged breach has been brought to my notice. If it is I shall consider it. 
I think the honourable member has made his point, and quite forcefully. The point is well made in the question. All I would say by way of reply is that I know of no way of muzzling judges, nor would I want to. 
The honourable member for Lalor in his enthusiasm for his cause or causes omits - I can only conclude that he deliberately omits - to notice all the relevant facts concerning this case. We on this side of the House are not altogether unaccustomed to such an attitude on the part of the .honourable member. He knows, but he omitted to state this in framing his question, that  Mr Ross  who has now been released from gaol, as is publicly known, at no time took steps which were open to him to have his beliefs tested. 
If the honourable member does not like what he is getting he should at least take it on the chin. I emphasised that this was a case in which the man concerned omitted to take - indeed, upon deliberate reflection refused to take - steps which were available to him under the National Service Act to have the question of his conscientious beliefs determined. In those circumstances the issue raised by the honourable member for Lalor is nothing hut  a  red herring and there is no case for giving the assurance he requests. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports was good enough to give me a little advance notice of this question, for which I am grateful, in the time available to me I have had some inquiries made. I hope he will agree with me when I say that unless 1 am in a position to substantiate all or any of the allegations that are implicit in his question I should refrain from making any positive comment. ' I understand that there is registered in the Australian Capital Territory a company of the name of Oxford Insurance Co. Pty Ltd. I understand also that the other company which the honourable member mentioned specifically, East Australian Insurance, is in the process of being investigated. I am not certain that it is not true to say that there are winding up proceedings, but T do not vouch for that. Some investigatory procedures are being undertaken in Victoria. May I say just this: If any person thinks that he or she is in possession of any information which would tend to show that there has been some improper course of dealing or improper course of business between those 2 companies - and T am not saying that there has been - then it would be right and proper for that person to con vey that information either to the Victorian Registrar of Companies, who is primarily responsible for the investigation being undertaken in Victoria into the affairs of East Australian Insurance, or, alternatively, to the Registrar of Companies in the Australian Capital Territory. 
 As there is not very much time left for the debate on these estimates and as other honourable members want to speak I will confine myself to the matters which have been raised by honourable members by way of criticism of my detailed administration of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. Quite frankly I do not propose to say anything in reply to the rather puerile political posturings of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr 
Cohen) who has just resumed his seat. Those Opposition members who blow the anti-public order trumpet, as some are doing, would do much better for the cause they want to promote if they held their fire until they see the legislation relating to violent demonstrations which this Government will introduce in a fairly short time. 
I think that honourable members on the Opposition side are short selling their case by indulging in an anticipatory attack on this proposed legislation before they have seen the content of it. They are short selling their case because to criticise something before it can be seen in fine print tends to give grounds for the conclusion that those honourable members on the Opposition side are against any legislation whatsoever to control violent demonstrations. They are betraying themselves for what their Party stands for; Namely, a Party which consists in part of honourable members like the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who thinks in the best Marxist tradition that government ought to be carried on in the streets by crowds. This is not to say that there is not every need for the protection of peaceful and lawful demonstrations.. I have never denied that there is a need to protect that very basic and sacred right, the right to demonstrate by lawful and peaceful means. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  referred to one matter with which I particularly want to deal and that is the case of Jarasius v. Brown heard in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. It later went on appeal to the High Court of Australia. The burden of his criticism was that in some way I had been neglectful in that I either omitted to deal with an application made by the infant plaintiffs in that case for legal assistance or in the alternative, as he put it, having dealt with the application f refused it. I regret to have to inform the Committee that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory is sadly misinformed as ito the true facts relating to the part played by my Department in the consideration of the plaintiffs application for legal assistance. The only other view is that he has somehow embarked on a course of misrepresenting the position. I would hesitate to believe this and I expressly refrain from suggesting that he has. I do not think he would do so. He is, therefore, sadly misinformed. 
After the application for legal assistance in connection with the High Court appeal, made on behalf of the infant plaintiffs, was received in my Department it was given consideration. It was decided that it was proper to follow the procedure which is adopted in New South Wales when applications for relief out of the suitors fund are made. The procedure which is adopted in New South Wales is that such applications are entertained and decided after the litigation - in this case the High Court appeal - has been concluded. It is true that the infant plaintiff's solicitors were not informed in writing of this decision but I am informed - 1 sent for the departmental file on this matter - that shortly after 16th March, which was before the High Court appeal was heard, a  Mr Roberts,  a member of the firm of solicitors acting for the infant plaintiffs, was informed that he ought to write to the Department renewing the application for legal assistance after the High Court appeal had been determined should that appeal result adversely to his clients. 
What I am concerned to tell the Committee therefore is that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory has, unwittingly I am sure, misrepresented the facts. I might be pardoned for commenting that he might have made more careful investigation of the facts before embarking upon a personal attack on my administration. The record should be set straight and I think I have set it straight. I conclude my remarks on that topic by making it quite plain, as ( wanted to do. that so far as 1 am concerned the matter is not concluded. If the solicitors for the infant plaintiffs care to take the course that they were counselled to take by an officer of my Department in their conversation with him and renew the application for legal assistance it wm be given proper consideration. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory made some remarks about the administration of my Department in relation to the High Court decision in the case of Worthing v. Rowell. The obscurity, of his remarks baffled me but as far as I understood them they were. to the effect that I and my Department were singularly lacking in foresight in failing to anticipate the decision of the High Court in the case of Worthing v. Rowell, which related to the applicability of State laws over property acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes and should have legislated before this decision was made to obviate the need for litigation on this subject. 
I hope that in those cases in which the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory may still appear for clients at the bar he will be slightly more careful about the facts than he has been in relation to that case and the case of Jarasius v. Alyta because he seems, conveniently or inconveniently, to have forgotten that the decision of the High Court in the case of Worthing v. Rowell was given by a majority of 4 to 3 in favour of the proposition that certain State laws did not apply to properties acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes. How in those circumstances any charge of lack of foresight or prudent caution could be made against the Department for which I am responsible would baffle anyone with a minimal sense of fairness. I have not time at my disposal to deal with many of the valuable suggestions made by honourable members on both sides of the House in those speeches which did not consist of the rankly political content which was evident in the speeches made by the honourable member for Robertson today and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  the other night The broad matters of policy which they raised, if one could say that is what they really raised, are matters more appropriate to be dealt with on a future occasion and not in a debate on departmental estimates. I am indebted to those honourable members who did make use of their time in this debate to raise matters of substance connected fairly closely with the departmental estimates. Having said that I shall reserve for a more appropriate time my reply to the questions posed by such speakers in the debate as the honourable member for Robertson and the Leader of the Opposition. 
I suppose I should start by thanking my honourable friend for doing me the compliment of asking me for a legal opinion. I am bound to say, however, that I would refrain from offering an opinion on the question whether this alleged agreement to which the honourable gentleman refers is an examinable agreement or not for the fairly good reason - I think he will agree with me - that I have not seen the agreement. I have read some newspaper reports. The honourable gentleman will know that there is often a difference between what is in newspapers and what is fact, and I do not say that in any derogatory way of the vast section of the Press. 
I-- 
by leave  -  I am pleased to be able to announce the appointment of a Committee to review the law relating to industrial designs. The Committee will be under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Franki, a  Deputy President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The terms of reference of the Committee will be: 
To examine the Australian law relating to designs and to recommend any alterations of the law that may be thought desirable. 
To consider and to recommend whether separate legislative provisions should be made in Australia with respect to utility models and, if it so recommends, the provisions that it is thought should be included in that legislation. 
The  Chairman  is eminently qualified to conduct an inquiry such as this. Before his appointment as  a  Deputy President  he had practised extensively in the field of industrial property law and appeared as counsel in leading cases in this field. The other members of the Committee are  Mr P.  J. Marsh, Vice  President  of the Institute of Patent Attorneys of Australia Inc.;  Mr R.  A. Rosenfeldt, a Foundation Councillor of the Industrial Design Council of Australia;  Mr D.  A. Freckleton,  President  of the Australian Manufacturers, Patents, Industrial Designs, Copyright and Trade Mark Protection Association;  Mr K.  B. Petersson, the Commissioner of Patents; and  Mr J.  P. Harkins, Senior Assistant Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department. The Secretary of the Committee will be  Mr J.  McKenzie, an officer of the Attorney-General's Department. 
The law relating to industrial designs is in need of review. This review was foreshadowed by my immediate predecessor, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  in his second reading speech on the Copyright Bill in 1968. He said then that it was proposed to set up a Committee to review the Designs Act when the Copyright Act had been brought into operation. Apart from 2 minor amendments there has been no substantia] change in the Designs Act since 1904. In 1961 the Johnston Committee in the United Kingdom recommended substantial changes in the United Kingdom designs law. Legislation to effect the changes recommended by that Committee has not yet been introduced the United Kingdom. One of the matters that needs to be looked at is the overlapping that occurs in Australian legislation relating to designs and copyright. There may be uncertainty among members of the public as to the scope of protection and as to which body of law applies in a particular case. These problems and other problems need to be examined with a view to devising a designs law that is most appropriate to the present stage of industrial development in Australia. 
I mentioned earlier that one of the terms of reference would be to consider whether separate legislation should be introduced dealing with utility models or 'petty patents' as they are often called. The utility model possesses some of the qualities of an industrial design and some of the qualities of a patent but does not clearly fall into one or other of the 2 categories. Several countries, including Germany and Japan, have passed legislation protecting utility models in their own right. The Institute of Patent Attorneys of Australia Inc. has sought separate legislation in this field. The Government thinks that as this subject is closely allied with the law of industrial designs, it would be appropriate for the Committee to report on both matters. The task that the Committee faces is a difficult one but 1 believe that with the expertise and experience that the members of the Committee will bring to its deliberations it will be able to furnish a comprehensive report that will provide a foundation for a modern designs law for Australia. 
The  answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Except as mentioned below, meetings of each Committee were held on the following dates: 21st July 1970 30th July 1970 31st July 1970 13th August 1970 14th August 1970 18 August 1970 19th August 1970 20th August 1970 31st August 1970 1st September 1970 2nd September 1970 18th September 1970 
The Drafting Committee did not meet on 21st July 1970. 
A report was furnished to the Slate AttorneysGeneral and to myself on 18th September 1970. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: . 
Yes. 
I refer the Honourable Member to my predecessor's answer to Question 566 on 10th October 1968 (Hansard, page 1905). No further approach has been made to Victoria as it has appeared that no good purpose would be served by continuing to press the matter. 
I preface my answer by agreeing entirely with the description that the honourable member has given of the activities of the separatist movement in Quebec Province. Australian constitutional arrangements are somewhat different from those of Canada. In Canada the national parliament has plenary power with respect to the criminal law- 
I shall deal with the last part of the honourable gentleman's question first. There has been speculation about the industry concerned in this matter to which the honourable gentleman referred. May I say that I do not propose even now for the time being to reveal the identity of the industry concerned. I can say that I have taken the opinion of counsel upon the problems which concern me in relation to the industry, which I do not name. As a result of taking counsel's advice, I have caused - indeed, I gave instructions while 1 was in Perth - for further investigations to be made. I hope that those investigations will soon be completed. They are, I understand, taking place today or, if not today, will take place tomorrow, because I have asked that the matter be treated as a matter of some urgency, lt will not be until the investigations that I have directed to be made have been completed that I shall make up my mind whether a prosecution should take place. 1 think therefore it would not be appropriate for me to indicate on the floor of the House what the industry is, even though there has been some speculation which may or may not be correct. 
Coming to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, which was on a rather different subject matter, 1 can say that the suggestion that the States refer power to the Commonwealth was not on the agenda for the meeting which I attended in Perth last week. The Attorney-General of South Australia and I had a warm conversation - warm in the sense that it was friendly - because I was very pleased by his announcement that the Government of South Australia proposed to legislate to refer power to the Commonwealth. I had an informal discussion with at least one other of my colleagues. Without wishing to sound any note of final doom, I think I should be realistic enough to appreciate that where the charm of my 2 predecessors in office failed to produce the result that might be desired 1 doubt whether perhaps I can do any better. But I do not give up hope, and I can assure the honourable gentleman that the problem has not been forgotten by me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A stipendiary magistrate is already independent of the Attorney-General's Department in respect of his statutory functions. In respect of other matters, such as salary, leave, etc., he is subject to the Public Service Act. There is no proposal to change this position which is in line with the position in most Australian States. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable member's question is, yes. Law enforcement is greatly assisted by the subsistence of adequate extradition treaties between Australia and other Commonwealth countries and between Australia and foreign countries. Australia is party to a number of extradition treaties with foreign countries which are non-Commonwealth countries. Those are treaties that were not entered into by Australia in her own right but were entered into many years ago under the umbrella of the United Kingdom. However, since the enactment of the Extradition (Foreign States) Act by this Parliament in 1968 negotiations have been carried out with the Federal Republic of Germany. These negotiations have reached an advanced stage and a draft treaty now awaits approval by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. I have indicated my approval of the draft that has been submitted. Negotiations have been on foot for some time between Australia and Italy. In the case of Italy, drafts agreed between the officers of the respective governments have been exchanged and await further consideration and discussion. Shortly, 2 senior officers of my Department will be leaving for overseas to visit Israel, haly and, it is hoped, Austria in order to conduct negotiations designed to produce extradition treaties with those countries. 
As a result of a conversation I had recently with one of the Parliamentary Counsel, I am in a position to give the honourable member the assurance that he seeks, and I give it. 
The position is that although the Act is capable of application to Italy and applies to it in that sense- 
It does; Italy is a country to which the Act is applicable, and I can recall that one of the first decisions I had to take after assuming office nearly a year ago was to open negotiations with the Italian Government for the formulation of a treaty. Those negotiations have been continuing, and I had an informal conversation with the Italian ambassador last night in which he informed me that things are progressing very smoothly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. This is the normal practice. 
Police Photographs at Demonstrations (Question No. 15*1) . 
The investigatory process is really a continuing one, but I am in a position to answer the honourable member's question by saying that as a result of the investigations which I directed to be undertaken back in August I have been able to authorise the institution of 21 prosecutions against various people for alleged breaches of section 7A of the Crimes Act, that being the section which makes it an offence to incite anyone to break a Commonwealth law. 
The fact that no-one has been brought to justice in respect of the very serious matters to which the 
Leader of the Opposition refers does not mean that very strenuous efforts have not been made to bring suspects into police hands and investigate the offences that have been committed. There have been unremitting efforts on the part of State police, in which the Commonwealth police have joined, and indeed are joining at the moment, to bring these offenders to justice. Anyone must - I certainly do - take a most serious view of incidents such as the incident that occurred in Melbourne at the Yugoslav Consulate last night. This morning I have been in touch with the Acting Commissioner of Commonwealth Police, who has informed me that officers of his force are collaborating with officers of the Victorian police force with a view to ensuring that the offender is or offenders are brought to justice. Those efforts will be unremitting because this is a very grave matter. I assure the House that the suggestion, which is rather implicit in the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition, that there has been some slackness in the effort to bring these people to book, is quite unfounded. 
I answer the first part of the question by saying that, of course, the activities of subversive groups in all sectors of the political spectrum are kept under continuing observation and investigation by the appropriate authorities. This is a continuing process and, of course, it is a process that is applied to the sort of people whom the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has mentioned in his question. But I am sure he will bear with me when I say that 1 ought to follow a tradition long followed not only since governments of my political complexion have been in office but during the time when a government of his political complexion was in office. That tradition requires that, except in quite exceptional circumstances, T, as the Minister responsible for the operations of the security organisation, should not reveal publicly the nature of its operations. To do so would tend, as he would, 1 think, on reflection well appreciate, to undermine or compromise the very useful activities that are carried out in this field of countering subversion and politically inspired terrorism. Therefore I must say to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that my first reaction to his suggestion that I should make a statement is a very guarded one, because to make any statement, as 1 think he would readily see on reflection, would involve a real risk that important work that must be kept secret if it is to be effective would be compromised. 
I do not want to be thought to be treating this matter lightly because it is most serious. If I may say so I think the Deputy Leader of the Opposition may be making use of this occasion to indulge in a little too much rhetoric. Seriously, what does the Deputy Leader of the Opposition expect me to do? Does he expect me to seek leave of the House to make a statement while the bomb remains, if in fact it is there? The fact that an unexploded bomb has been reported still in the Consulate premises has no doubt caused the most serious attention to be given to the problem by the Victoria Police, which is the police force primarily responsible for dealing with such a situation. I thinkI have made the point very clear in my answers to a number of questions asked this morning that I view this matter most seriously. I am not persuaded by the logic of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition when he suggests that the presence of another bomb in the premises of this Consulate should require me to make a statement which I understand he wants me to make on the activities of the security service. I have already said that it is against long established policy to make such a statement. That is why I say the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has been indulging in a little too much rhetoric for political purposes. 
I shall answer the honourable member's series of questions briefly because I think that is how they deserve to be answered. It is a series of highly hypothetical questions. I content myself with saying that the scope of the defence power depends on circumstances. It would be incorrect to say that the defence power could not be invoked in the case of widespread civil insurrection or civil war in the type of situation to which the honourable member adverts. I hope I have said enough to answer the honourable member's question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On no occasion. 
I answer the first part of the question by saying that my attention has been directed to an article and to a letter by a correspondent in today's Financial Review'. I have given the issues raised in the letter and in the article some cursory examination. I hope the honourable member will not take it amiss if I say that I do not propose, on the basis of a very cursory examination - which is all I have been able to give it so far - to offer any view on what could only be described as complicated legal questions. In answer to the second part of the question which concerns the arrangement between the Victorian Government and Esso-BHP: No, I have not examined that particular agreement. 1 should venture to think that there may be some difficulty in bringing that agreement within the scope of the Trade Practices Act because, as the honourable member probably will be aware, the Act, as 1 recall it, excepts from its operation agreements to which the Crown, in right of the Commonwealth or of a State, may be a party. The other part of the honourable gentleman's question concerned, I think, the operation of section 92 of the t Constitution in relation to arrangements between the Hamersley company and the Western Australian Government. Again, I have taken note of what has been written in the article but I do not propose to offer any opinion. 1 shall take the matter further into my consideration. 
Pursuant to section 314 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966-1969 I present the third annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill is designed to meet the constitutional position disclosed by the decision of the High Court of Australia given last June in Worthing v. Rowell and Muston Pty Ltd and Others. In the case the plaintiff,  Mr Cyril  Worthing, alleged that ' while in the employment of one of the defendants he was injured by falling from his working place. He claimed damages from his employer on the ground that the employer had failed to secure his safety, by means of fencing or otherwise, as required by certain regulations made under the Scaffolding and Lifts Act, 1912 of New South Wales. The employer pleaded that the regulations did not bind him since the work was being carried on at the Royal Australian Air Force base at Richmond and the base was a 'place acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes' within the meaning of section 52 (i.) of the Constitution. Section 52 (i.) provides that the Commonwealth Parliament has exclusive power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to any place acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes. 
The High Court held by a majority of 4 Justices to 3 that the State legislation did not operate in the Richmond Air Force base. The decision runs counter to the assumption, held and acted upon by both Commonwealth and State governments since Federation, that State laws are not affected by section 52 (i.) if they do not purport to apply specifically to Commonwealth places. Immediately after the High Court decision I communicated with the Attorneys-General of the States. It was the unanimous view of the law Ministers that legislation should be introduced as quickly as possible to meet the position resulting from the High Court's decision. Subsequent events have emphasised the need for early legislation. In several cases parties have argued, sometimes successfully, that certain State laws concerning manslaughter, forgery, theft, gross indecency, possession of drugs and the use of indecent language do not operate in Commonwealth places. These places include, for example, not only Royal Australian Air Force bases but also Army camps, Post Offices.. Commonwealth offices, Commonwealth court buildings and quarantine stations. A series of meetings has taken place between the Commonwealth and Slate Attorneys-General and between Commonwealth and State officers. A special meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General was held in Sydney on 18th September to consider draft Commonwealth and State Bills. The matter was further discussed at the regular meeting of the Standing Committee in Perth on 15th October. 
I shall now describe to the House the principal features of this Bill. The broad object of the Bill is to restore the position as far as possible to the position that was assumed to exist before Worthing's case. This has proved to be a task of great legal complexity. The Bill if enacted will, subject to certain exceptions, apply as Commonwealth law the provisions of State laws that are inapplicable by reason of section 52(i.) of the Constitution. The provisions of these State laws will be applied as in force from time to time in each State. When the States repeal or amend their laws, the repeals, and amendments will, by force of the provisions of this Bill, be automatically applied in Commonwealth places. The Bill, if enacted, will apply State laws retrospectively in both civil and criminal matters. For example, persons who have uttered forged documents in Commonwealth places will be liable to prosecution under the retrospective provisions. A plaintiff in a civil action will be able to pursue a claim under the retrospectively applied provisions.  Mr Worthing  would therefore be able to proceed under the applied provisions unless he has already settled his claim. 
For constitutional reasons, some exceptions must be made to the application of State provisions as they stand, lt will therefore be necessary to make regulations modifying the applied provisions so that they can operate effectively. For example, it will be necessary to modify provisions of State laws that confer judicial power on bodies that are not courts within the meaning of Chapter III of the Constitution. However, the regulation-making powers would extend no further than necessary for purposes of this kind: if the Commonwealth wished to make other changes - for example, if it wished to increase the penalties for assault or other crimes committed in Commonwealth places - it would have to do so by separate legislation. 
The Bill will not affect the continued operation in Commonwealth places of Commonwealth laws such as the Airports (Business Concessions) Act 1959-1966. 
The Bill authorises the Governor-General to make arrangements, with State Governors for the administration of the applied provisions by State authorities. Where a State makes an arrangement, its authorities will be given the powers, functions and duties under the applied provisions just as if they were still State laws. However, if a State does not make an arrangement, its authorities will not be obliged to perform any duties under the applied provisions, though they would have power to administer the provisions if they so wished. The assimilation of the applied provisions to the corresponding State laws is taken- a stage further by providing that Federal jurisdiction under these provisions would-be exercised by State courts just as if it were State jurisdiction. The only qualification is that no appeals would lie from State courts to the Privy Council in matters arising under the applied provisions. This accords with Commonwealth policy as expressed in the Judiciary Act 1903-1969 and the Privy Council (Limitation of Appeals) Act 1968. 
Several clauses of the Bill deal with situations where people act on the assumption that a State law is applicable but the law turns out to be inapplicable as a result of Worthing's case. For example, proceedings begun under an inapplicable State law would have to be continued as if they had been originally brought under the applied provisions. I have referred to possible arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States for the administration of the applied provisions. Not all the State governments have yet indicated their intention to introduce legislation to enable these arrangements to be made. I can say, however, speaking as of now that some States have done so. Accordingly, the Bill has been prepared in terms that, in certain respects, would apply differently according to whether or not a State has made an arrangement. If a State does not enter into an arrangement, a proclamation will be made bringing the proposed legislation into force in that State as soon as possible. In the case of States making arrangements, proclamations will be made to take effect from dates to be agreed with those States. 

 Mr Speaker, 1 think I have sufficiently, though shortly, described the reasons for the Bill, the manner in which it will operate and why it is that the Government considers that legislation should be passed by the Parliament in the present sittings. I should be glad, in Committee, to give honourable members a more detailed explanation of the provisions of the Bill, many of them of a highly technical nature. The Bill is both important and urgent. I commend it to the House. 
Attorney-General which States have made ' arrangements? 
I have had communication by telegram from certain States indicating that they are prepared to pass complementary legislation - in the main legislation limited in point of time. It will be very helpful if they do that. If the honourable gentleman would care to ask me a question tomorrow I will answer it when I have taken stock of all the telegrams. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to remove any obstacle that the Bankruptcy Act may present to the operation of compositions or schemes of arrangement entered into under State or Territory legislation providing for assistance to farmers in respect of their debts. The Bill seeks to achieve this object by, firstly, preserving the validity of com-  positions or schemes of arrangement that might otherwise be void because of the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act arid, secondly, authorising the Bankruptcy Court to stay proceedings under the Bankruptcy Act that might affect such a composition or scheme of arrangement. Having regard to the provisions of section 213 of the Bankruptcy Acf, questions have arisen as to- the validity of compositions or schemes of arrangement made under State legislation. Section 213 renders void a composition or deed of arrangement that is not made in accordance with the provisions of Part X of the Bankruptcy Act. My inquiries indicate that it is unlikely that arrangements made between farmers and their creditors under State legislation would be in accordance with Part X of the Bankruptcy Act. 
The repealed Bankruptcy Act contained a provision, section 57a, directed to protecting the operation of compositions and schemes of arrangement 'providing for the management, administration or control of the business, property or affairs' of a debtor. The provision was inserted in that Act in 1933 following the enactment by some of the States of legislation to provide relief to farmers during the financial depression of the 1930s. Section 9 of the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935 of the Commonwealth was enacted for a similar purpose. However, when the committee that was appointed to review the bankruptcy law of the Commonwealth presented its report in 1962, the affairs of very few farmers were being administered under the various State Acts to which section 57a of the repealed Bankruptcy Act applied. This prompoted the committee to comment in paragraph 83 of its report that 'this section was enacted in 1933 as a result of the economic conditions prevailing at that time but it no longer appears to have any practical value'. The committee therefore recommended that 'section 57a should not be included in the new Act' and this recommendation was given effect to when the Bankruptcy Act 1966 was enacted. 
The effects of the drought, particularly severe in some States, appears to create a fresh need for the managament of farmers affairs under State farmers' debts assistance schemes. I understand that some millions of dollars are held by the States under their farmers' debts assistance legislation and that these moneys could be made available for the assistance of farmers faced with mounting burdens of debts because of the drought. There may be some hesitancy in providing that assistance because of a doubt about the validity of proposed compositions or schemes of arrangement. The Government has, therefore, decided to introduce this Bill to ensure that the Bankruptcy Act is not an impediment to the provision of assistance to farmers under State or Territory farmers' debts assistance legislation. The scheme of the Bill is as follows: A State or Territory law providing facilities for (he giving of financial assistance to farmers for the purpose of discharging all or any of their debts may be proclaimed under proposed section 253b. This is a wider description of the laws that may be proclaimed than that contained in the old section 57a. The decision of the Bankruptcy Court in the case of Francis decided in 1941 (12 A.B.C. II) raised a doubt whether some State Acts answered the description in section 57a of an Act 'providing for the management, administration or control of the business, property or affairs of the debtor'. 
The Bill will preserve the validity of compositions or schemes of arrangement under a proclaimed law by excluding them from the operation of Part X of the Bankruptcy Act. This will be done by excluding the composition or scheme of arrangement from the definition of 'composition' or deed of arrangement' in section 187 of the Act. The Bill provides, by proposed section 253c, the machinery to enable the authority administering the proclaimed State or Territory law to notify the Registrar in Bankruptcy of a bankruptcy district that proceedings or execution against a debtor are stayed under that law. 1 should mention that the time at which a stay is granted under the State or Territory law seems to be the most appropriate time for extending protection under the Bankruptcy Act. It appears that an automatic stay operates under all State Acts when an application for assistance has been accepted except in the case of New South Wales legislation under which, however, a stay can be granted if sought. The Registrar is required to maintain a register of notices received and forthwith to notify the Registrars of every other bankruptcy district, who are also required to enter in a register all notifications received. Each Registrar' will, therefore, have a comprehensive register of notifications concerning all districts, not merely concerning his own district. This could be of importance where a farmer has creditors in more than one State or Territory. 
The Registrar will be required, by new section 253d, to notify the relevant State or Territory authority of pending proceedings against a farmer in relation to whom a stay is in force under a proclaimed law. These pending proceedings include the ordinary creditor's petition, a partnership petition presented by the partners of a farmer, a petition for an order for the administration of the estate of the deceased farmer - dealt with in new section 253e - and an application by a farmer for leave to present a petition against himself or against a partnership of which he is a member - dealt with in new section 253f. The protection given by the sections mentioned is wider than the protection that was provided under section 57a of the repealed Act. By new section 253e, the State or Territory authority will be given the right to seek, and the Bankruptcy Court will be empowered to order, a stay of the pending proceedings. The Court will be able to take into account all the facts of the case in determining whether to grant a stay of proceedings of a petition that has been presented or to give leave to present a petition. A stay may be of indefinable duration or for such period as the Court thinks fit. 
I should mention that the opportunity has been taken in this Bill to include a provision in clause 20 that makes it an offence for a person to wilfully swear a false affidavit for the purposes of the Bankruptcy Act. The penalties provided are the same as those provided by section 11 of the Statutory Declarations Act for wilfully making a false statement in a statutory declaration. I believe that the provisions contained in the Bill will provide a satisfactory scheme for ensuring the validity of compositions and schemes of arrangement made under State legislation and will allow the Bankruptcy Court in pending proceedings to consider the circumstances relating to farmers who have sought assistance under such legislation. I com1 mend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: On no occasion. 
I have seen the statement to which the honourable member referred in the first part of his question. In answer to the second part of the question I would say that I am not satisfied, nor is the Government, that the law in its present state so far as it affects areas of Commonwealth responsibility can protect adequately the freedoms to which the honourable member referred. With this in mind legislation to deal with that topic is currently being drafted. 
Yes. my attention has been drawn to the journal 'Resist' to which the honourable member has referred. The statement to which the honourable member has referred is one to which several members of this Parliament are purported to have subscribed. T have considered the statement and I would say that the substance of it is as was described by the honourable member in his question. It offers encouragement, or so it would appear, to people defying the National Service Act by offering them assistance in employment and sustenance. .1 have formed a certain view upon the statement. The Solicitor-General also has considered the statement and has formed a view upon it. I have taken the course of submitting the statement to a senior counsel practising at the Victorian bar to have the benefit of his view as to whether the tendency of the statement is to incite people contrary to section 7A of the Crimes Act. When 1 have received advice from senior counsel and compare it with the views of myself and the Solicitor-General, I shall decide whether investigations should be undertaken with a view possibly to instituting a prosecution. If the advice of senior counsel goes a certain way and if the investigations that I would then put in train lead to the establishment of the necessary evidence I should anticipate commencing a prosecution. 
in reply - My reply will be as brief as possible because the hour is late. I can assure the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  that this Bill is not designed to impinge upon the activities of the Rural Reconstruction Board of the State of New South Wales. The legislation under which that Board is established is, as I understand it, legislation that may be declared or proclaimed under the present Bill when it becomes an Act of this Parliament, so that the protection given by this Bill will be available in the case of compositions or schemes entered into under the relevant New South Wales legislation. That is my understanding of the situation. I have taken note of the other comments made by the honourable member. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) The Objectionable Publications Ordinance 1958 of the Australian Capital Territory provides in section 10 that an offence against the Ordinance shall not be prosecuted without my consent or that of a person authorised by me to give such consent. No application has been made under the provisions of the Ordinance for my consent to prosecute anyone in respect of the sale of the book 'Portnoy's Complaint'. 
I am informed that in a number of overseas countries what is known as spotlight shooting is prohibited by law. I shall give consideration to the question of whether this is a subject which should properly be referred to the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. I have a slight doubt about its being within the jurisdiction of the Standing Committee. If it is not, it may well be within the jurisdiction of some other committee of Commonwealth and State Ministers. But having considered that problem I shall certainly further consider the request put to me by the honourable member. 
 I am distressed to receive the piece of information contained in the last part of the honourable gentleman's question. But 1 suggest, if I may - I hope not too facetiously - that the honourable member for Wakefield and the honourable member for Henty might get together and resolve their differences and then come back to me. 
 I would like to reply very briefly on this point of retrospectivity. If I may say so, I think that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  should be commended for the brevity and succinctness with which he put the argument and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  likewise deserves to be commended. They put their points very clearly. 
I shall. I do not need any prompting from the honourable member for Grayndler. The Government has given very careful consideration to this question of retrospectivity. I would say that the views put in this Committee debate by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  set out the reasons which disposed the Government to press the view that the legislation should apply retrospectively in relation to criminal activities. The general reason why the retrospective application of a law is frowned upon is a very good one, namely, that to give a law a retrospective application disappoints people's expectations and undermines the assumptions upon which they may have regulated their activities. 
I think the Committee will agree with me, upon due deliberation, that that principle upon which, generally speaking, retrospective laws are not favoured simply does not apply in a case involving people who for years, indeed ever since federation, have ordered their affairs on the assumption that the laws made by the State Parliaments, unless specifically directed - which they never were - to Commonwealth places, had a general application in those places; so it could not be said that people committing activities of a criminal nature were undertaking those activities in the belief that they would be exempt from criminal law in relation to those activities. I think that is the simple ground upon which the retrospectivity of criminal sanctions in this very unusual case can be supported and ought to be supported by the Parliament. If the amendment as proposed by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory were to be passed there would be or could be, as the honourable member for Diamond Valley has already pointed out some very remarkable consequences. It could be open day for people to commit very serious acts which would ordinarily be criminal acts between now and the date when the Bill received the royal assent. I do not think that is a risk that the Committee should countenance. For those reasons the Government opposes the amendment proposed by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the Commonwealth Police Act 1957-1966, I present the annual report of the Commissioner of Police on the operation of the Commonwealth Police Force and summary of its activities for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 7th April 1970, the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General has met in the following places on the dates indicated: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Minister for Immigration to question number 860 (Hansard 1st October 1970 at page 1991). 
In 1926 the Crimes Act was amended to provide in section 30l that the Attorney-General may by order under his hand direct any person to be deported from the Commonwealth who was not born in Australia and who is convicted of an offence under sections 30c 30j or 30q of the Act. Subsequent amendments of the Act have not affected the powers granted under this section. 
These provisions appear never to have been used and consideration will be given to amending the Crimes Act in this respect when the Act is next under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See the answer to question No. 1468. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See  the answer to question No. 1468. 
in reply - I shall reply very briefly to the contributions that have been made by the honourable members who have spoken in this debate. I accept the plea of urgency that has been made by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and by my colleague on this side of the House, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  There is no opposition to the terms of the Bill. The complaint that is made is that the Government has not pressed ahead fast enough with a comprehensive Cheques Bill in terms of the recommendations of the Manning Committees report. This is an enormously complicated subject. Throughout 1970, and indeed up to the present time since 1 made my second reading speech on 19th May last year, substantive discussions have been taking place between officers of my Department and representatives of the banks concerning the contents of a comprehensive Cheques Bill. I can understand that there is some impatience at what would appear at first sight to be an inordinate delay in this field. When the facts are examined fully it will be seen that the delay is by no means unforgivable and is by no means as inordinate as it is made to appear. 
At the present time we are witnessing almost kaleidoscopic developments in the fields of automation and electronic data processing, lt is with the developments of this kind, fast as they have been occurring, that the discussions between officers of my Department and the banks have been concerned. The position has now been reached where I would anticipate, according to the information given to me, that instructions on most of the matters that have been discussed through 1970 between the representatives of the banks and officers of my Department can be given to the Parlia mentary Counsel for the drafting of the desired legislation. The legislation is desired as much by me as by the honourable members who have spoken in this debate. The whole problem is by no means as simple as it might be thought at first sight to be. I can assure the honourable members who have made valuable contributions to this debate that I will continue to keep the matter under my close attention with a view to getting legislation of the kind we all want to see into the House as soon as possible. I hope that the honourable member for Cunningham will not think me guilty of any discourtesy if I do not follow him by answering some of the broader matters that he sought to raise, because during his speech I rather took the hint from you,  Mr Speaker,  that if 1 were to do so my contribution would not be altogether welcome to you. That is all I want to say in answer to what has been put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
Third reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Hughes)  read a third time. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
A meeting of prison administrators was held on 23rd June 1969 to discuss the decision relating to penal statistics made by the Ministers at their meeting on 27th March 1969. The prison administrators discussed the details of a scheme for the compilation of- penal statistics on a uniform basis. Agreement was reached on a basic programme that had been prepared by the State of New South Wales for this purpose. 
Wilh regard to alternatives lo imprisonment, the procedure of releasing offenders on licence or parole in appropriate cases subject to supervision by a parole officer, is being used to an increasing extent in the case of Commonwealth offenders. In addition, draft legislation has been prepared for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory providing, as an intermediate step between probation and imprisonment, for the release of offenders on probationary supervision, subject to the payment of a penalty to the Commonwealth in a lump sum or by instalments. 
In relation to young offenders, the procedure being followed in respect of offenders against Commonwealth law is that a prosecution is not to be commenced against a person under the age of 1.6 years without my consent or the consent of the Secretary lo my Department or of the DeputySecretary. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) During the war years arrangements were made with the New South Wales Government for a Court of Petty Sessions constituted by n Stipendiary Magistrate and an office of a  Clerk  of Petty Sessions to be located in Commonwealth premises for the hearing of ' Commonwealth cases. The Court and the Petty Sessions Office are presently located in Phillip Mouse.  Mr Rogers  is now retired. 
The Commonwealth makes no direct cash reimbursement to the State for the services of State magistrates. The State of New South Wales receives payment from the Commonwealth of normal Court fees in respect of matters in which the Commonwealth is applicant or prosecutor. 
Carpet  - (Question No. 1969)  -  Mr Grassby  asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
How many carpet makers are there in Australia.. 
Do they use Australian wool 
What was the size, texture and composition of the carpet in the main hall of the Australian pavilion at Japan's Expo '70. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as  follows: 
Yes. 
The following legislation was in force when the Standing Committee discussed this subject - in the Australian Capital Territory, Foreign Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement) Ordinance 1954; in the Northern Territory, Foreign Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement) Ordinance 1955; in Queensland, The Reciprocal Enforcement of Judgments Act of 1959; in Victoria, Foreign Judgments Act 1962; in Tasmania, Foreign Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement) Act 1963; in Western Australia, Foreign Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement) Act 1963. New South Wales and South Australia do not as yet have suitable legislation. 
No arrangement has been agreed to as yet wilh any foreign country. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department does not keep records that make it possible to supply the information. 
The answer to the honourable members question  is  as follows: 
A reprint of the Commonwealth Electoral Act as amended to date is in hand and should be published shortly. 
I have had some preliminary inquiries made into this book but I have not read it or indeed opened it for myself. But I will take into account what the honourable member has said and if I consider that a further investigation of the allegations that have been made is warranted I will give some thought to what the honourable member has proposed. 
Frankly 1 think I have better things to do. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been correspondence between the Commonwealth, New Zealand and the States concerning these matters since 24th October 1968. New Zealand has indicated that it does not propose to join with the Commonwealth and the States at the present stage in the setting up of facilities for research but would wish to send officers to participate in training courses conducted by the Institute. The States have agreed to the proposals with respect to the establishment of a Criminology Research Council, a Criminology Research Fund and an Australian Institute of Criminology. 
All States have agreed to the Commonwealth's proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
New South Wales- 34 Supreme Court and 26 District Court judges 
Victoria - 17 Supreme Court and 21 County Court judges 
Queensland - 13 Supreme Court and 12 District Court judges 
South Australia - 8 Supreme Court and 6 Local Court judges 
Western Australia - 7 Supreme Court judges and 4 District Court judges 
Tasmania - 5 Supreme Court judges. 
New South Wales- 85 stipendiary magistrates 
Victoria - 49 stipendiary magistrates 
Queensland - 55 stipendiary magistrates 
South Australia - 22 stipendiary and 7 special magistrates and 3 Justices of the Peace specially authorised by the Governor-General to exercise judicially - federal jurisdiction 
Western Australia - 27 stipendiary magistrates 
Tasmania - 9 stipendiary magistrates. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
and (b) No. As foreshadowed in my answer to a previous question on notice by the honourable member (Question No. 467 - see Hansard for 39th August 1970, page 223), a further review of staffing needs in this area has been undertaken. This will be followed by appropriate action. 
-I would readily agree with the proposition which is expressed in the first part of the honourable member's question. As to the second part, I think I should say that I cannot of my own knowledge confirm the substance of the allegations that are contained in it, but in saying that I do not for one moment suggest that the allegations may not be very well founded; I just do not know for myself. But I think it is commonly understood that conduct of the kind to which the honourable member has referred, that is, dealings by brokers in their own right as principals, either in their own names or through nominee companies, can give rise to risks of manipulation and the sort of problem to which the honourable member referred in the second part of his question. 
As to the third part of the question,I would say that because there are no stock exchanges in any Territory of the Commonwealth, as the position now stands there is very little that the Commonwealth Government can do. Controls of the kind that the honourable member would have in mind are controls that, as things stand, would have to be exercised by means of State legislation because the stock exchanges are in the States. I understand that there are branch offices of Sydney and Melbourne broking firms in the Australian Capital Territory, but they are purely branch offices and there is no share trading on any market in the Australian Capital Territory. That is the position as I see it at the present time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 11 September 1969 legal aid in divorce cases has been discussed at meetings of the Standing Committee at Adelaide in December 1969, Wellington, New Zealand in February 1970 and Sydney in July 1970. 
Legal aid in other matters has not been discussed since that date. 
 I move: 
That the Bil] be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Act to provide for the appointment of a second judge under sub-section (1.) of section 7 of that Act. The need for the Bill arises out of the Government's decision - which I announced in this House on 19th May last - to establish a Law Reform Commission for the Australian Capital Territory. A draft of the ordinance to establish the Law Reform Commission was recently submitted to the Advisory Council of the Australian Capital Territory for comment, and it should be possible for the ordinance to be made in the near future. 
In accordance with my statement to this House on 19th May last year, the draft ordinance provides for the  Chairman  to be a judge. As the Commission will have the task of reforming the law of the Australian Capital Territory, it is desirable that the  Chairman  should be a judge of the Supreme Court of the Territory. The present Bill will enable the  Chairman  to hold such an appointment. The present position is that the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory consists of one judge appointed under sub-section (1.) of section 7 and the additional judges appointed under sub-section (2.) of that section. An additional judge is required to be a judge of another Commonwealth Court and it would not be satisfactory for this requirement to apply to the  Chairman  of the Commission. The Bill accordingly provides for the appointment of a second judge under sub-section (1.) of section 7. 
I expect that the  Chairman  of the Law Reform Commission will be engaged for the greater part of his time on the work of the Commission and that this work will take precedence over the normal judicial work of the Court. However, it will, I think, be desirable from many points of view, particularly in the early days of the Commission, for the  Chairman  to assist from time to time with the judicial work of the Court, and this will be possible under the amendment provided for in this Bill. The work of the Court has increased considerably in recent years and this has at times led to delays in the hearing of cases. The main proposal in the Bill is to be found in clause 4, which provides for the amendment of section 6 of the Act so that the Court will consist of not more than two judges appointed under sub-section  (I.)  of section 7 and the additional judges appointed under sub-section (2.). All the other amendments proposed in the Bill are merely consequential upon that provided in clause 4. They are necessary because the Act is at present framed upon the basis that only one judge can hold office under sub-section (1 .) of section 7. 
The Bill makes provision with respect to the relative seniority of the two judges holding office under the sub-section and provides for that seniority to apply in several provisions that depend on seniority. I comment the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to establish facilities on a national level for the conduct of research into crime and for the training of persons engaged in the prevention and control of criminal behaviour. 
The introduction of the Bill follows extensive discussions between the Commonwealth and the States. 1 should like to pay tribute to my ministerial colleagues in State governments for the help and co-operation that has made possible the introduction of this Bill for the setting up of machinery on a truly national basts in the form of an Australian Institute of Criminology, a Criminology Research Council and a Criminology Research Fund. The cost of crime to the nation is enormous. 1 speak not only of cost in terms of government expenditure, but of the tragic waste and loss of human resources, the unhappiness that is caused, the erosion of human character and the break -down of families. People are the most precious resources of any civilised community. In this field therefore, parliaments and governments should no longer confine themselves to law making and law enforcement. They must provide the facilities for the study of the causes and effects of crime and of means for its prevention. 
Good work has already been done in Australian universities, and public interest in the problem has been stimulated by nongovernmental bodies such as the Australian Crime Prevention, Correction and AfterCare Council and the Australian and New Zealand Society of Criminology. But the resources of government are needed if real progress is to be made. Here the Commonwealth believes, and the States agree, that the Commonwealth has an Australia-wide co-ordinating role so that the problem can be tackled on a national basis and the available .resources of men and money can be applied to the task in the most effective way. According to one estimate, the cost of crime in the United States during the year 1965 amounted to some $US20,000m. The Rural Bank of New South Wales in a publication that received wide publicity in 1968 estimated that the 'immediate' cost of crime in Australia - that is to say the loss suffered by individuals, as distinct from the economic loss suffered by the nation as a whole - could well exceed $3 50m a year. I suspect that this is a conservative estimate. 
There can be no gainsaying that the incidence of crime is rising in Australia. This is no unique experience. Many overseas countries, particularly those that are highly urbanised and industrialised, have even greater problems than we do here. It has become generally recognised that there is a causal connection between rising crime rates and a number of aspects of development, such as urbanisation, industrialisation, population increase and technological change. There is by no means a complete understanding of all aspects of this connection. It is an ironical feature of the times in which we live that increasing standards of affluence have not had a diminishing effect upon the incidence of crime. Once upon a time it was thought that much crime was the illegitimate offspring of poverty. So it was, and so some crime still is. But now perhaps we are witnessing in increase in criminal activity, because of, rather than despite, our relatively affluent standards of living. Affluence itself, particularly if it is unevenly distributed, creates greater criminal opportunities; there are more goods to be stolen and the appetite for possession is made larger by the vision of glittering material temptations. We know that these problems exist but our research into them has not yet gone very deep. 
Many related factors are involved - the greater complexity of life presented by modern society, the decline in social controls of behaviour, the absence in many highly urbanised societies of the supports and sanctions of a well understood traditional culture, the opportunities provided by urbanised societies for anonymity and freedom of action and for an increase in criminal activity with a lower risk of detection. In short, an element in the price of rising material standards in an industrial or post-industrial society is that the society becomes less firm-footed. I do not say any of this in any mood of depression or resignation; I say it because if we are to meet the challenges of the times, as I believe we can and will, we must have the vision to see why they have arisen and the honesty to admit that our way of life has a darker side. In the United Kingdom, United States and other countries, there are reports of alarming increases in the number of reported crimes in proportion to the population. Similar trends are discernible in Australia. Some estimates suggest that there has been an increase in Australia in the order of 100 per cent during the last 20 years in the number of crimes reported per 1,000 of population. Moreover, reported crime is only the tip of the iceberg. There remains what is called the dark figure of crime that is unreported. Some estimates suggest that it would be almost 4 times the reported rate for some offences. 
While statistics of crime increases are widely publicised it should not be assumed that the statistics presently available accurately outline or measure the problem. One of the big gaps in our resources both in Australia and overseas is the lack of basic information about the incidence and extent of crime. We do noi know, for example, the extent to which statistics reflect increased police efficiency or improved crime reporting standards, bringing out into the light more of the dark figure than was previously known. We do not know the extent to which the figures reflect changing practices in the administration of justice. The recent population growth in the younger age categories has a close connection with the increase revealed in statistics. Nevertheless, if one makes all due allowances for defective statistics, there is in this country a trend of sufficient magnitude to give cause for real concern. 
Clearly, the provision of facilities for research into crime is an urgent and pressing need. There is no deployment on a nationally co-ordinated basis of existing facilities in Australia for criminological research. As part of the Commonwealth's consideration of the arrangements that might be made to deal with this problem and in an endeavour to introduce some measure of co-ordination between the various State and Commonwealth agencies working in this area, a governmental seminar was held in Canberra in 1968 under the sponsorship of the Commonwealth. The seminar was attended by senior representatives of a number of professions - police, magistrates, probation and parole officers, child welfare officers, psychiatrists and other experts. The theme of the seminar was 'The Control of Deviant Behaviour in Australia'. A number of matters emerged from the discussions of the seminar. In the first place, the seminar demonstrated the value of inter-discipline discussion. Those attending obtained an enlarged understanding and appreciation of the work done by each other in the whole field of crime prevention and correction. Secondly, the seminar made a recommen dation that there should be increased research into crime. They saw this as being achieved by the establishment of a national body, with the active participation of the States. . 
In Octobe 1968, the Commonwealth proposed to the States a scheme involving the establishment under Commonwealth legislation of an Australian Institute of Criminology, a Criminology Research Council and a Criminology Research Fund. In May 1969 my predecessor announced in Parliament that the States had agreed in principle with these proposals and in November last year I announced that agreement had been reached with the States on the details of the scheme. This Bill is the expression of the agreed scheme in legislative form. It is a worthwhile project. The Criminology Research Council will consist of one representative of each State and one Commonwealth representative. The Council will administer the Criminology Research Fund. The Commonwealth will provide one half of this fund and the balance will be provided in agreed proportions by the States. The primary task of the Criminology Research Council will be to assess needs in the field of criminology research and to allocate moneys from the Fund to specific research projects in universities and governmental institutions. 
It is envisaged that a substantial amount of research will be carried out on this basis. These arrangements will give effect to the view that there should be a maximum utilisation of existing resources in Australia where in both universities and government departments there are many experts whose services might be made available for specific projects. However, there will be some areas in which it would be more appropriate for research projects to be undertaken on a national basis at governmental level. These projects will be undertaken by the Australian Institute of Criminology. The Institute will also be responsible for conducting seminars and training courses designed to keep police, prison and parole officers and others up to date with modern techniques and developments in their respective callings. 
The Commonwealth will, accept full financial responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Australian .Institute of Criminology. However, because of the considerable interest of the States at the regional level, the States will be represented on a board of management of the Institute. The board of management will consist of a  chairman  and five other members. The  chairman  and two members will be appointed by the Commonwealth and the 3 other members are to be appointed by the Criminology Research Council to represent the States. The  chairman  will have a casting vote-. 
The Bill is divided into five parts. Part I. deals with preliminary matters and definitions. Part II. deals with the establishment of the Australian Institute of Criminology. The functions of the Institute are set out in clause 6 of division 1. In addition to the conduct of research and training, the Institute will advise the Criminology Research Council in relation to the needs for, and programmes of, criminological research and provide secretarial and administrative services for the Council. An important function of the Institute will be to give advice in relation to statistical requirements and the compilation of statistics with respect to crime. The Institute will also perform incidental functions such as collating and analysing research and disseminating the results of research to the Commonwealth and State governments. Division 2 deals with the establishment of the board of management and division 3 deals with the appointment of the director and the staff of the Institute. Provision is made for the appointment of an acting director. The finances of the Institute are provided for in division 4. 
Part 111 of the Bill deals with the establishment of the Criminology Research Council and Part IV establishes the Criminology Research Fund. Clause 46 provides that there shall be paid into the Fund out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund an amount of $50,000. The Fund will also consist of moneys paid by the States to the Commonwealth for the purposes of the Fund. The Fund is to be applied only in the making of payments for such purposes of, or related to, criminological research as are determined by the Council and in the discharge of any obligations or liabilities of the Council arising under the Act. Part V of the Bill deals with miscellaneous matters. The accounts and financial transactions of the Institute and of the Council are to be audited by the Auditor-General. 
The establishment of facilities for research into crime is a need that is recognised at the international level. No country has devoted enough of its resources to the problem of crime prevention. Nevertheless, efforts to encourage research programmes and establish institutes of criminology have been made by many countries. Australia too must play her part. 1 believe that the Australian Institute of Criminology has an international role to play, particularly in the South-East Asia area. There is a need to provide training facilities for persons from these countries engaged in crime prevention and correction. There is need for international collaboration and consultation in the formulation of policies and programmes for the fight against crime. There is also the opportunity, both for Australia and South-East Asian countries with developing economies and changing social structures, to seek to learn from the mistakes made by other highly urbanised societies and endeavour to minimise the increase in crime that so often flows from development. If such a result is to be achieved, firm and vigorous action must be taken now. This Bill will provide the necessary base for such action. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information contained in the following tables relates to the Police Forces of the Commonwealth, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Police Forces of the States do not fall within the administration of the Commonwealth and the honourable member should direct his requests for information concerning those forces to the appropriate State authorities. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  the  question  whether a general reprint of Commonwealth Acts should be undertaken has been considered by my predecessors from time to time and more recently by myself. I have now decided not to undertake a general bound reprint of Acts at the present time but rather to concentrate the available resources of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel on the production of reprints of legislation in pamphlet form. The reprints will incorporate all amendments to the date of publication. Reasonably up to date reprints of most significant Acts in common use - approximately 150 in number - are available in pamphlet form. If a complete set of reprints of Acts is maintained in alphabetical order, there is little occasion to refer to the 1901-1950 bound reprint or to subsequent annual volumes. During 1970, 37 Acts were reprinted in pamphlet form. I hope that this number can be increased this year and in later years. 
Adequate stocks of the existing 1901-1950 reprint of Acts are now available, although shortages did exist while unbound copies of that reprint were being bound. Some of the annual volumes of Acts published since 1950 are in short supply. It is proposed to reprint sufficient numbers of the volumes since 1950 that are out of print or in short supply to enable complete sets of the 1901-1950 reprint and annual volumes since 1950 to be available for the next few years. 
Adequate stocks of the 1901-1956 reprint of Commonwealth Statutory Rules also are available. It is likewise planned to reprint the annual volumes since 1956 that are in short supply. 
To assist consideration of the question of a new reprint of Acts, the views on the form of a new reprint, if one were to be undertaken, were sought from the Law Council of Australia and its constituent bodies and from law publishers. The system of publishing reprints in pamphlet form incorporating all amendments to the date of publication of the reprint appears to be favoured by the majority of law societies. Suggestions for different forms of permanently bound reprints were put forward by the law publishers. A necessary precursor of a reprint is the drafting and enactment of a Statute Law Revision Bill, which reduces considerably the overall size of a reprint by repealing Acts and portions of Acts the operation of which is exhausted. Such a Bill also incorporates necessary amendments of a non-contentious nature. 
Having regard to other drafting tasks of a more urgent nature, it has not been and is not likely soon to be practicable to undertake the drafting of such a Bill. In any event economic circumstances render it undesirable to incur the expense of commencing any new undertaking that can reasonably be deferred. Accordingly it has been decided to concentrate for the present on the publication of pamphlet reprints together, of course, with the regular annual volumes of Acts and Statutory Rules. This course would seem best to meet the immediate needs of the legal profession and other users, but it does not rule out the possibility of general reprints being undertaken in the future. 
The question of the best form to be adopted for a general reprint is not easy to resolve. A reprint in bound form becomes progressively more out of date and cumbersome as each year passes, and many Acts in such a reprint are amended even before the reprint becomes available. An advantage of a separate pamphlet system is that an Act that is extensively amended may be reprinted with the amendments incorporated and then issued in lieu of the existing reprint. An example of this advantage is provided by the Income Tax Assessment Act, which is reprinted every year as amended. 
In an endeavour to achieve speedier production of the annual volumes of Acts and Statutory Rules, the form of the volumes has been altered to reduce their size. The comprehensive table associated with the annual volume of Acts have been recast and will be published as a separate pamphlet that will be replaced annually by a later tables pamphlet. This arrangement will prevent extensive tables that are superseded being retained permanently in bound annual volumes, and should permit the bound volume containing the text of the Acts passed each year to become available more quickly. I shall inform the Parliament if altered circumstances enable the course of action that I have just outlined to be changed. 
 My attention has been drawn to the matters to which the honourable member referred in his question. He asked whether it may be possible to negotiate some agreement with the British Government. I would not like to give an answer to that off the cuff. If he will permit me to take time to consider the matter 1 shall look into it and give him a reply at a later date. 
I am not ministerially responsible for the activities of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force. I suggest that my honourable friend should address his question to the Minister for the Interior. 
When he is back. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main objects of this Bill are to clarify, to simplify and, in important respects, to mitigate the severity of, the law concerning assemblies of persons in areas of Commonwealth legislative responsibility. Much of the existing law on this subject is archaic, diverse, difficult to find and difficult to apply. If any law is to be effective in regulating human conduct in potentially discordant situations, it ought to be comprehensible not only to those to whom it is directed but to those who have the responsibility for its administration. The law ought therefore to be conveniently accessible; it ought to be expressed in clear and explicit language. 
This Bill makes provision for situations that are sometimes fraught with the risk of discord and, occasionally, with the risk, or worse, the actuality, of violence. In a democracy, every citizen should be free, within limits imposed by laws designed to strike a reasonable balance between conflicting interests, to give expression to his views or to his sentiments by the processes of peaceful assembly. It must be recognised that the right to dissent carries with it, as one of its aspects, a right to use those processes. To set the limits to which  1  have referred is seldom an easy task. Where the competing interests are in sharp conflict, the task is apt to be both delicate and difficult. The nature of the task was described by a former Attorney-General of New Zealand, the Honourable Ralph Hanan, now deceased. He was a notable reformer of the law. In  1968  he said: 
Both freedom and order are essential. Freedom without order - which is virtually what the anarchists proclaim - is an impossible slate except for hermits. There can be no meaningful freedom in society unless we have order. On the other hand, order without freedom is tyranny and we will have none of it. Balancing the two is a perennial human problem, to which there is no perfect solution.  lt is the task of government to strike that balance - lo draw the line. And the line ought to be clearly and sensibly drawn. This will not happen if we concentrate on simplistic catch-cries about the need for law and order' or the need for preserving civil liberties'. Such emotive slogans serve only to obscure the reality of the problem, which is to formulate just criteria for protecting social values of sufficient worth and durability to warrant the protection of the law. Calls for law and order must not be allowed to deteriorate into attacks upon the right to dissent. Calls in support of the right to dissent must be heeded, but they must not be allowed to deteriorate into attacks upon the rights and proper liberties of other people. 
In a real world, there cannot be - and the law in its development has always recognised this - an absolute and unfettered right for groups of people to assemble together, or for individuals to roam without any restriction wheresoever they will into or over premises lawfully occupied by others. 
To admit such rights would ignore the legitimate interests of others. That those interests are entitled to protection is recognised in Article  29 (2)  of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in which it is stated that in the exercise of his rights everyone shall be subject to such limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing recognition of the right.; of others and of meeting the requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a democratic society. In short, freedom of assembly and freedom of movement must be qualified by reference to considerations affecting the overall public interest.  1  shall now attempt to define the principal considerations that seem to me to be relevant. First: the public interest requires that the conduct of people assembling for a common purpose shall not give rise to violence or to any reasonable apprehension of violence. Second: the public interest requires that people who assemble in public places for a common purpose shall conduct themselves so as not to cause unreasonable obstruction to others. A great judge once said that the commandment 'Thou shalt love thy neighbour' is translated into the legal rule that 'you must not injure your neighbour'. One way of doing such an injury is unreasonably to obstruct your neighbour in the legitimate exercise of the rights and privileges that he, as a member of the public, is entitled to enjoy. 
Third: the public interest requires that lawful occupiers of land and premises should be protected from intrusions upon their peaceable occupation. The technique of protest known as the 'sit-in' is such an intrusion. There is good reason to conclude that the sanction of the civil law - the action for damages for trespass to land - is inadequate to control this sort of behaviour and that a moderate criminal sanction is justified. Fourth: the public, interest requires that the proprieties of international discourse should be preserved. Therefore, any nation that receives the official representatives of other nations should see to it that they are protected against harassment or intimidation by organised groups of protesters. This is more than a matter of mere propriety; it is an international obligation that Australia owes to the diplomatic representatives of other countries by virtue of its accession to the Vienna Convention of  1961  on Diplomatic Relations. Other countries owe the same duty to our representatives abroad. 

 Sir, I prefaced my remarks by saying that there are areas of Commonwealth legislative responsibility. I shall now define those areas. First, there are the mainland territories of the Commonwealth, in respect of which this Parliament has plenary legislative power. Second, there are 'Commonwealth premises', whether in a State or a Territory. These are defined in the Bill as premises occupied by the Commonwealth or by a public authority or body (other than an incorporated company or association) constituted by or under a law of the Commonwealth or of a Territory. Third, there are what this Bill describes as 'protected persons' and 'protected premises'. 'Protected persons' are the representatives of other countries or of international organisations, duly accredited to this country, and 'protected premises' are premises, situated anywhere in Australia, occupied for official or private purposes by those representatives. 

 Mr Speaker, certain events have caused attention to be focussed upon the field of law with which the Bill is concerned- I do not intend to convey that matters have got out of hand or that situations have arisen, either in the mainland Territories or elsewhere, that require the enactment of repressive measures. That is not the purpose of the present Bill. But incidents have occurred that have been disturbing and that have caused the Government to undertake an examination of the existing law - to look at its content and at its suitability to present-day conditions. In the result, the Government has decided that it should undertake the task of balancing the various interests - of making an effort to achieve a synthesis of freedom and order, as the objective has been described - in a suitable, modern statute covering, but expressly limited to, matters within the area of Commonwealth legislative responsibility. 

 Mr Speaker, I now refer to the state of the existing law. The view that the existing law is archaic and diverse is not mine alone. A committee of English lawyers, amongst whom were the Right Honourable  Sir Derek  Walker-Smith, Q.C., M.P., and  Mr Charles  Doughty, Q.C., has quite recently expressed the same opinion concerning the law in force in the United Kingdom. That law is neither as antique nor as diverse as our own law. The committee recommended that the law in the United Kingdom should be revised in order to simplify and clarify it, to help the authorities in maintaining order and to give participants in assemblies a greater understanding of their legal rights and liabilities. Under the present law, there are indictable offences of unlawful assembly, rout and riot. Unlawful assembly is an assembly of three or more persons with the intent to carry out a common purpose, assembled in such a manner as to give other persons reasonable cause to fear that the persons assembled will tumultuously disturb the peace. A rout is an unlawful assembly on the move, and a riot is an unlawful assembly that begins to act in so tumultuous a manner as to disturb the peace- 
The law as to unlawful assembly and riot differs from State to State; it differs also between the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The present law is found in part in the common law, in part in old United Kingdom statute law of considerable antiquity, dating back to riot legislation of 1394, in the reign of King Richard II, and in laws of the States and Territories. The common law offences of riot, rout and unlawful assembly remain in force in the Territories and in three States. These States are New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. In four States and in the mainland Territories, United Kingdom statutes relating to riots are still in force. In 1967, most of those statutes were repealed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom. In South Australia, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, six statutes which were passed in the years 1394, 1411, 1414, 1661, 1714 and 1793, are still in force. Certain of these statutes are also in force in Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. 
The present statutory penalties for taking part in an unlawful assembly vary from imprisonment for one year to imprisonment for 21 years. At common law, the penalty is imprisonment or a fine, within the discretion of the Court. The statutory penalties for taking part in a riot vary from imprisonment for 3 years to imprisonment for 21 years. At common law, the penalty is imprisonment or a fine within the discretion of the Court. The penalty for failing to disperse from a riot is presently life imprisonment in Queensland, South Australia and the Northern Territory; the penalty for that offence is  21  years' imprisonment in Tasmania and in Western Australia it is  14  years. All these unsatisfactory features of the present law have been taken into account in the preparation of the Bill that the House is now being asked to consider. 
The Bill will repeal the existing United Kingdom, State and Territory offences of taking part in an uplawful assembly, rout and riot, so  faT  as those laws affect the Territories, Commonwealth premises and diplomatic and consular premises and personnel. 
The Bill will also mitigate the unnecessary severity of existing laws. A person may be guilty under the present law of the offence of taking part in an unlawful assembly, a rout or a riot although he did not himself -commit a breach of the peace or so conduct himself as to give rise to an apprehension that a breach of the peace would occur. This aspect of the law needs, I think, to be modified. Under clauses  6  and IS of the Bill, only those persons taking part in an assembly who commit acts of physical violence to persons or damage to property, or who so conduct themselves as to give rise to  a  reasonable apprehension that such violence or damage will occur, are to be guilty of an offence. The Bill will also reduce substantially the penalties applicable under the existing law. 
Clauses  6  and  15  of the Bill will provide a maximum penalty of  $250  or 3 months imprisonment or both for the offence of engaging in conduct that gives rise to  a  reasonable apprehension that an assembly will be carried on in  a  manner involving unlawful physical violence to persons or unlawful damage to property. This penalty will replace the present penalties of unlimited fine or unlimited imprisonment,  1  year's imprisonment and  21  years imprisonment at present applicable in different part of Australia for the offence of taking part in an unlawful assembly. Clauses  6  and  15  will also provide a penalty of  $1,000  or  12  months imprisonment or both for the offence of committing an act of physical violence to another person or damage to property while taking part in an assembly. As ] have said, the present penalties range from 3 years imprisonment to  21  years imprisonment under statute law and a fine or imprisonment in the discretion of the court at common law. 
Clauses  8  and  17  of the Bill will provide a penalty of  $500  or  6  months imprisonment or both for the offence of failing to disperse from a riot. This penalty will apply instead of the penalties of life imprisonment,  21  years imprisonment and  14  years imprisonment at present applicable for this offence. The law presently available to deal with persons taking part in sit-in demonstrations in Commonwealth premises is inadequate to control this sort of behaviour. Only in New South Wales and Victoria are there provisions making it an offence for a person to refuse to leave a building on being requested to do so. Accordingly, clauses  11, 12  and  20  make it an offence for a person to refuse or neglect, without reasonable excuse, to leave premises within the scope of the legislation on being directed to do so. 
The Bill provides objective criteria for determining whether an offence has been committed. For example, in determining whether the conduct of persons taking part in an assembly has given rise to an apprehension of violence, the test is whether the apprehension is a 'reasonable' one. Its reasonableness is to be decided by the court in the light of the evidence. The term unreasonable obstruction', as used in the Bill, is an act that constitutes, or contributes to, an obstruction of the exercise or enjoyment by other persons of their lawful rights or privileges, where, having regard to all the circumstances of the obstruction, including its place, time, duration and nature, it constitutes an unreasonable obstruction. Again, it is for the court to decide whether the obstruction is unreasonable. In addition, defences of lawful excuse or reasonable excuse, as appropriate, are provided for in the Bill. 
I turn now to a brief description of the broad framework of the Bill. Part  1  of the Bill is mainly concerned with definitions. An 'assembly' is defined to mean an assembly of not less than 3 persons who are assembled for a common purpose, whether or not other persons are assembled with them and whether the assembly is at a particular place or moving. This follows in essence the common law concept of what is an assembly. 
Part II, which consists of clauses  6  to 13, relates to situations that may arise in the mainland Territories and on Commonwealth premises both in the mainland 
Territories and in the States. Clause 6 of the Bill replaces the common law offences of taking part in an unlawful assembly, a rout or a riot or the statutory equivalent - wherever there is one - of such offences. The clause, which applies in a Territory or on Commonwealth premises, makes it a summary offence to cause physical violence to another person or damage to property, while taking part in an assembly. It is also a summary offence to engage, while taking part in an assembly, in conduct that gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such violence or damage will occur. 
Clause 7 deals with more serious cases of violence or damage. It provides that a person who in a Territory or on Commonwealth premises, while taking part in an assembly, wilfully and without lawful excuse causes actual bodily harm to another person or damage, to an extent exceeding two hundred dollars, to property, is guilty of an offence punishable by imprisonment, in the case of causing actual bodily harm, for a term not exceeding 5 years or, in the case of causing damage to property, for a term not exceeding 3 years. These are indictable offences. 
Clause 8 will replace the present provisions, such as the Riot Act, 1714, that make it an offence to refuse to disperse from a riot upon being lawfully commanded to do so. It provides that a member of the police force of the rank of sergeant or above may, in certain circumstances, give a direction to persons taking part in an assembly to disperse. Clause 8 applies where there is an assembly consisting of not fewer than 12 persons in a Territory and the assembly is being carried on in a manner involving violence. It also applies where persons in the assembly have conducted themselves in a way that has caused a member of the police force of the rank of sergeant or above reasonably to apprehend that violence will occur. The clause provides that, where a direction is given under the section to disperse and the assembly, to the number of not fewer than 12 persons, continues after the expiration of 15 minutes from the time of the direction, each of those persons who has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with the direction is guilty of a summary offence, punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, or both. This is a substantial mitigation of existing statutory penalties. 
Clause 9 creates a summary offence of unreasonable obstruction. The maximum penalty is $250 or 3 months imprisonment or both. Clause 10 will make it an offence for a person taking part in an assembly to carry or use a weapon or missile or a destructive, noxious or repulsive object or substance. In clauses 11 and 12, additional offences are provided in relation to Commonwealth premises and private premises. The clauses create offences of trespassing without reasonable excuse, unreasonable obstruction, offensive behaviour and refusal, without reasonable excuse, to leave premises on being requested to do so. The maximum penalty for the offence of trespassing without reasonable excuse is $100 or one months imprisonment or both. 
 That is what the honourable member might do, but I do not propose to adopt that course. I would prefer to have them tried in a court in the ordinary way and subjected to a moderate criminal sanction. 1 am obliged to my honourable friend for the interjection. The maximum penalty for the other offences created by clauses 1  1  and 12 is $250 or 3 months imprisonment or both. 
The principal object of Part III of the Bill, as stated in clause 14, is to introduce provisions that will assist in giving effect to Australia's obligation in international law to protect diplomatic and consular premises and personnel. Clause 18 will make it an offence to assault, harass, behave offensively towards, or unreasonably obstruct, diplomatic or consular personnel. Clauses 15, 16, 17, 19 and 20 cover the same ground, in relation to diplomatic and consular premises and personnel, as that dealt with in clauses 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 12 in Part II of the Bill. There are, in addition, a number of general provisions in Part IV of the Bill. Clauses 22 and 23 deal with matters relating to arrest and the bringing of prosecutions. Proceedings under the Act, except proceedings with respect to offences committed on private premises as set out in clause 11 of the Bill, may be instituted only with the consent of the AttorneyGeneral. Clause 24 will give a defendant charged with an offence against the Act punishable on summary conviction an entitlement to receive reasonable particulars of the conduct which is the subject of the charge. Clause 25 provides, in the context of the Bill, that the existing common law and statutory offences of taking part in an unlawful assembly, a rout or a riot, cease to apply after the commencement of the Bill as an Act. In summary, this Bill is designed to protect the civil rights of innocent persons, and the property of those persons, from unlwaful and unreasonable conduct occurring in the course of certain assemblies. 
I know that the honourable member for Wills does not like this, but it is justice, you know. The Bill sets out in a specific and simple manner, for all to see, the liabilities of those who engage in violent and unreasonable conduct in the course of an assembly. 
I am glad that the shoe is pinching. 
I would answer the question asked of me by the Leader of the Opposition by saying that this matter is currently under consideration. 
in reply - I should like to reply briefly to the contributions made to the debate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  by my honourable friend the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  and by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  Firstly, 1 was chided for not doing something definitive about the Commonwealth superior court proposal. I am bound to say that the proposal is awaiting consideration by the Government. Until the Government has considered my views on this matter I cannot make any announcement about the proposal or about the future or otherwise of the court. However, I was interested to hear my honourable friend from Diamond Valley this afternoon express some views from which it appears quite clearly that the proposal to establish the Commonwealth superior court has many problems associated with it. I am not. saying that they are insuperable problems or what the outcome of the Government's consideration of the proposal will be, but I think one has to look at the experience of the United States of America. 1 think it is fair to say, taking a line through the experience in that country, that a 2-tier system of jurisdiction - Federal and Stale - does carry ils own very considerable problems. For instance, there are jurisdictional problems. All these matters should be most carefully and anxiously considered because once a decision is made, whichever way it goes, that decision will affect the development of this country's judicial system not for a generation or two, but more probably than not. for centuries. 
I will come to that in a moment, if I may. 1 took careful note  what the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory said when he spoke. I wanted to come to thai point after completing, as 1 now have, the remarks I wanted to make on the criticism that was directed at me for doing nothing, so it was alleged, about the Commonwealth superior court proposal, because the ultimate decision as to the composition of the Supreme court proposal, because the ultimate decimust depend on the outcome of that proposal. The realities of that situation have to be studied. The 2 matters are not dissociated. I am sure that, upon reflection, my honourable friend from the Australian Capital Territory will see the force of my argument on that point. I want to make one point quite clear. I anticipate that the additional resident judge who will bc appointed when this Bill becomes an Act, although his task will be concerned mainly and principally with his duties as a law reform commissioner, will be able to lend the aid of his experience, learning and diligence to the judicial work of the court. During the initial period of his appointment the Law Reform Commission will be gearing up, as it were, for an attack upon the various problems that will be referred to it. I have had consultations with the person whose name I have in mind for appointment to the new judicial office. 
The Leader of the Opposition will not tempt me to say anything that would reveal his identity because to do so. as my honourable friend would recognise, would be a breach of proper protocol of the most serious kind. But  1  have had consultations with the gentleman whom I have in mind for appointment, and he will be very willing to assist in the judicial work of the Court from time to time, and he will be particularly able to do so during the earlier phase of the work of the Law Reform Commission. 
Having said that, 1 indicate that I have taken careful notice of the argument put to the House and really directed to me by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory as to the need for a third resident judge in the Australian Capital Territory; another judge in addition to the judge who will be appointed pursuant to the amending legislation now before the House. I say to the House - and I hope that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory will take some comfort from this - that I have by no means put out of mind the possibility of making yet another appointment to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. But it seemed to me that the first thing to get done was to add to the strength of the Court by appointing one more permanent resident judge and then, when he has been able to assist in the judicial work of the Court for some time, to take stock of the situation and determine, in a calm and deliberative way, whether the work of the Court is such that a further appointment is needed. 
I think that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory would agree, upon reflection, that by and large - and  1  think he said as much, very properly, in his speech - the system under which the Court has been staffed has worked well. The position was, and still is, that each judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court is an additional judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, and when  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Gibbs was Federal Judge in Bankruptcy, he was also an additional judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. 
As honourable members would know, the work of the Commonwealth Industrial Court fluctuates. It might be said that at times that Court, in terms of the work before it, has either a feast or a famine. The amount of work varies. It so happens that in the past several months that Court has had something that is more in the nature of a feast than a famine of judicial work, and hence there have been minor difficulties in seconding additional judges of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory from their primary duties as judges of the Commonwealth Industrial Court. I have faced this administrative difficulty, and I appreciate that this difficulty has led to delays in the work of the Court. 
Do not tempt me to engage in a polemical argument. That is a matter for another day. But this Government will not be repealing the penal clauses. The Australian people would not want this Government or any other Government to repeal the penal clauses in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act because to do so would destroy the very basic principles of arbitration. The Leader of the Opposition gave me the opportunity to distil, in summary form, my views on that question, and I shall now get back to the Bill. 
Whenever the honourable member for Wills comes into the House nothing he says, when he interjects, adds any light to what has been said in the House. We know that he is irrepressible, but he would do himself quite a lot of good, or at least less harm, if he were to be a little more repressed in his utterances. 
 I wonder whether there is anything else that the charming gentleman from Wilis wants to get off his chest. 
 in reply - This has been one occasion when the House has engaged in a thoroughly useful, non-partisan discussion of some great social problems. There have been many notable and, to my mind, altogether valuable contributions to the debate. I have listened to those contributions - those made by the honourable members for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and others. IfI do not mention them all in my reply please do not let it be thought that I deny their value. They will make good reading for the future. Sometimes people are inclined to think that politicians are hard boiled characters without very much social conscience. I think it has been established in this House tonight that many of us do have a keen social conscience. 
I have been very warmed by the generous support that has been given to this measure, which I believe to be a very important one. The honourable member for Hawker said, quite rightly, that this measure is not a panacea; that it is not going to cure the problem. Of course it is not. The problem of crime in a community is a perennial one. It will never be solved completely. We can only try to do our best - sometimes groping, but always trying to do our best - to tackle the problem. We cannot do that unless we recognise and know more about the causes of the problem. That is what this Bill is all about. I thank those honourable members who have taken part in the debate. Their suggestions will not go unheeded by me. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 5  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
The functions of the Institute are - (a)to conduct such criminological research as is approved by the Board; 
 I should first say that while I appreciate that the motives which have led the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to move his amendment to clause 6 are worthy and disinterested, I cannot accept the amendment. I should like to explain briefly why I take that view. The purpose of the amendment is to make it one of the functions of the Institute that it shoud conduct any criminological research that may be referred to it by either House of this Parliament or by the Parliament of a State. In short, without any disrepsect, I would answer the case put by the honourable member by saying that if one has referred to the detailed provisions of this Bill the amendment might fairly be thought to be in truth unnecessary. 1 say that for these reasons: The Board of Management of the Institute will be composed of persons equally representative of Commonwealth and State interests. If one looks at clause 9 of the Bill one finds that it is proposed that the Board of Management of the Institute Shall be composed of 3 members appointed by the AttorneyGeneral and 3 members appointed by the Criminology Research Council. It is clear enough, I would think, that those members of the Board who are appointed by the Attorney-General will be broadly representative of the national interest. I do not use the expression 'the national interest' in any sense of denigrating the State interests. But the Commonwealth will have 3 people appointed to the Board by the AttorneyGeneral of the day. The other 3 members, the total membership being 6, will be appointed to the Board by the Criminology 
Research Council. The Criminology Research Council is, as is the Australian Institute of Criminology, a body corporate, and the point to be noted about the Criminology Research Council, in the context of the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, is that the members of the Criminology Research Council represent very preponderantly State interests. This is all part of an attempt to achieve a fair balance between the interests of all governments in Australia, including of course the national Government. 
The Criminology Research Council will consist of 7 members, of whom only one will be a Commonwealth appointee. The other 6 members of this 7 member Council will be representative of the respective States. The point I want to make in reply to the honourable member for KingsfordSmith is simply that the amendment may be thought to be unnecessary when it is borne in mind that the people on the Board of Management of the Institute will represent fairly in equal part the viewpoints that may come up from the parliamentary institutions of the States. Having said that, I think there is fair ground to suggest that on reflection the proposed amendment may not be regarded as necessary. 
We are setting up the Australian Institute of Criminology and the Criminology Research Council as independent or substantially independent bodies corporate. Of course, there is an element of ministerial control over the expenditure of funds. That is appropriate because the expenditure will be of public funds. These bodies corporate are being established to exercise important statutory functions in a broadly autonomous way. One might be pardoned for fearing that if projects are to be fed into the work of the Institute or proposed for work by the Institute by State parliaments upon terms that those projects must be considered, sufficient balance may not be exercised in relation to the disposition of the Institute's resources. 
The Bill contains ample machinery for views that may be held by State governments or State parliaments to be put before the board of management of the Institute through the State representatives on the board. I have stated briefly why I am not disposed to accept the proposed  amendment although, as I have said, I fully appreciate the motives with which it has been moved. 1 should also say that the task - and it has been a pleasurable task - of formulating these proposals in legislative form, has been a fairly prolonged one and has depended on very close consultation with the States. It also has depended, as it properly should, upon obtaining the agreement of the States to every detail of the Bill. For that reason, even if I otherwise agreed with the proposed amendment, I would feel somewhat fettered in agreeing to accept it on the floor of the House. I put that as a minor point but I am sure that the honourable member for KingsfordSmith will appreciate it. 1 come now to answer the matters raised by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He asked me what I would have in mind in appointing members of the board of management of the Institute who will be representative of the national interest, I have no fixed ideas on this subject. Of course, the honourable member rightly pointed out that even if I had any firm ideas on the identity of the people I might appoint, I could not tell the House tonight. In fact, I have no inflexible or fixed ideas on the subject. My broad aim would be- - and I think this will be satisfactory to the honourable member for Oxley - insofar as I have any choice, and I have the choice of appointing 3 members of the board, to appoint people who, by their qualifications and interests, would provide a spread or diversity of talents to the work of the Institute. I do not think I can usefully add to that at the moment. I would not have a predilection in favour of any person. 
I would certainly think so, but I do not see myself necessarily appointing 3 public servants. I have a great admiration for public servants, as would the honourable member, but I should have thought that one would look for a spread of talents amongst the members. The honourable member next asked me what would be the position concerning the publication of the research work of the Institute. Perhaps I can best answer that question in this way: Clause 6 of the Bill really covers that subject, I think, pretty ade-  quetely  First of all, the functions of the Institute - and it is broadly speaking an autonomous body - are amongst others to communicate to the Commonwealth and the States the result of research conducted by the Institute. That comes under clause 6(b). 
Clause 6 (h), which is the more important clause in this connection, states that it is one of the functions to publish such material, resulting from or connected with the performance of its functions, as is approved by the Board. The point I want to make is that I or the Attorney-General of the day will have no power, as I see it, under the Bill as it is framed to hold up a hand and say: 'You will not publish this and you will not publish that'. In relation to the publication of research material the Board of Management of the Institute which is the policy directing part of the Institute, like the board of directors of a company, will have its own free hand. There are its statutory functions spelt out in very clear language. I would certainly hope that the policy of the Board of Management of the Institute from time to time would be to throw light on matters it investigates by giving the utmost publicity to the publication of research material because the whole object of this legislative exercise is to throw light on dark places. The next point that was raised by the honourable member for Oxley concerns clause 6 (c). All I would say is that there is in clause 6 (c) a very wide charter to the Institute, acting by its Board of Management, to conduct seminars and courses of training or instruction for the benefit of a wide classification of. people engaged in law enforcement, crime prevention and penal treatment. 
I would imagine that the whole policy of this Bill - and it would appear clearly so to any Board of Management - is to get the best brains available to give these courses. I am not, nor will my successor whoever he may be and whenever it may be . . . 
I am always cautious, unlike the honourable member. I would emphasise that it will not be the AttorneyGeneral of the day - this is what I was  coming to when the honourable member for Reid interrupted me - who will be dictating, who will be the lecturers and what will be the course. This is a function committed to the Institute. 
I am giving the rights sentiment or what the honourable member might regard as the right sentiment. I do not think we are very far apart on this. The other matter raised by '.he honourable member for Oxley concerned the Criminology Research Council. He expressed a misgiving that there might be some collision between the Australian Institute of Criminology and the Criminology Research Council. I do not think this will happen in a real world, lt is necessary in a complicated legislative exercise of this sort to balance the respective and proper interests of the Stales and the Commonwealth; and be it remembered that the Australian Institute of Criminology will provide the working secretariat for the Criminology Research Council. I do not see in this context much room for misgiving about colliding views on colliding functions. 1 strongly believe that in a practical way it will work out pretty satisfactorily. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Powers of Institute). 
 Mr Chairman,  I appreciate the point that was raised by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  but I do not agree that clause 7 of the Bill is deficient in that it does not give the Australian Institute of Criminology power to allocate money to the States for the purpose of crime prevention and law enforcement. I think that it would be inappropriate to confer such a function or power on the Institute. If money is to be given by the Commonwealth to the States for purposes such as the honourable member for Oxley suggested the proper way to do it would be by way of grants under section 96 of the Constitution and not by giving a lump sum to an institute which is charged with the task of research and giving that institute carte blanche to disburse this public money among the State agencies. I think that it may be said that some States, if not all States, might not altogether welcome the idea which has emanated from the Opposition tonight that specific grants should be made to the States for crime prevention or law enforcement purposes. I am not seeking to be dogmatic about this. A lot of the States, if not all of them, would say: 'We would prefer to have funds made available to us in a general way, without strings, so that we may disburse them as we think, allocating our own priorities'. I do not want to get into a philosophical argument on this question. I am only emphasising a point. 
This is a point on which people may be entitled to disagree. I am only speculating. My point is that it would be altogether inappropropriate to confer upon the Institute, which is primarily a research body, power to disburse large sums of Commonwealth money for purposes other than research. If the money is to be made available to the States for specific purposes such as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  indicated, there is another and better way of doing it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Constitution of the Board). 
 I am sure the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  will not convict me of discourtesy if I reply to him briefly.  His  complaint is that the States have given away too much in this exercise. Of course he is entitled to his  view, but in my short experience I have never known the States to be particularly slow in asserting their rights or pursuing their interests. The legislation before the House represents a full measure of agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, an agreement arrived at in the course of prolonged and delicate negotiations which were conducted with goodwill on all sides. The honourable member is entitled to his view but I do not feel any sense of guilt. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole. 
The position in relation to clause 46.(1.) of the Bill, to which the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  referred, is that the Commonwealth is providing $50,000 for the Criminology Research Fund. The arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States is that that $50,000 will be matched by the States in accordance with the arrangements that they are making, or have made, between themselves. So the total will be $100,000. I regret that I am not able to inform the honourable member of the sum which will be appropriated for the activities of the Australian Institute of Criminology. I should think that the question would be better directed to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  I am very interested in this proposal and I appreciate the need to avoid a pinch-penny approach, but after all there are problems and the final amount will be decided not by me alone but by the Government. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment: report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At a meeting at Hobart on 7th March 1969 Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General agreed to the amendment, for clarification purposes, of Part II of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Acts. 
South Australia - 
21st October 1969 
27th November 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Seven. 
As attached. 
Four. 
The laws most frequently applied in the Courts of Petty Sessions in Canberra are in fad substantially similar to those 'hat apply in New South Wales. Accordingly the benefit gained by the temporary assistance given by Magistrates wilh long experience in New South Wales is considerable. There has nol been, to my knowledge, any complaint by a professional body in the Territory about the performance by relieving magistrates of duties in the Australian Capital Territory. 
No. 
(a) The appointments of magistrates are made under section 7 or $ of the Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance 1930-1970 by the Governor-General in Council on the recommendation of the AttorneyGeneral. 
lite appointments of judges are made under section 7 of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Aci 1933- 1969 by the Governor-General in Council on the recommendation of the Attorney-General. 
See answer to (6). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) In accordance with established practice from which departures are made only in exceptional circumstances (which in my judgment do not exist here) I do not propose to answer questions about the operations or alleged operations of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It does not follow, however, that any of the assumptions made by the honourable member for the purposes of his question is correct. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No provisions have yet been adopted. 
1 am not aware of any of the provisions having been copied in any State. Detailed consideration of the provisions of the draft Code has necessarily been prolonged and has involved large questions of legal policy. The work is proceeding. 
Workers' Compensation and. Third Party Insurance (Question No. 2497)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Can he say what total amount was paidin (a) workers' compensation premiums and (b) third party insurance premiums throughout the Commonwealth in each of the last 5 years for which figures are available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A comprehensive review of. the staffing needs of the printing section of the Industrial Registrar's Office has been made and a proposal for the creation of additional positions' has  been submitted to the Public 'Service Board. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council Report on the needs of State education services has established the most urgent needs in education. 
That these needs can be summarised as alack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of1,000,000,000 (one thousand million) dollars is required over the next five (5) years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act,1970, be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assetnbled will take immediate steps to ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australian children. 
Petition received. 
In the unavoidable absence of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 11 (1970).  Mr Speaker,  the Customs Tariff Proposals which 1 have just tabled relate to proposed amendments to the Customs Tariff 1966-1969. The amendments, which will operate from 23rd May 1970, incorporate changes consequent on the Government's consideration of recommendations by the Tariff Board on: 
Centrifuges; 
Extrusion presses; 
Factice 
Screws for wood; and Weighing machinery and weights. 
On centrifuges the Tariff Board has recommended a rate of 30 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 20 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff, except for hydro-extractors of a kind used in laundries where the rates recommended arc 40 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 30 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. The recommended rates for hydro-extractors represent a decrease of 15 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and an increase of 2i per cent, ad valorem. Preferential Tariff. 
On milk and cream centrifuges and other liquid centrifuges the Tariff Board has recommended that the duties be increased from 7i per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff and Free, Preferential Tariff. However, Australia's GATT- General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade - commitments preclude an increase in the General rate of  Ti  per cent, ad valorem, on cream separators and milk clarifiers, unless international negotiations are undertaken. As there is little prospect of local production of these goods negotiations will not bc undertaken and the existing duties will be maintained. On sugar centrifuges the new duties represent a decrease of 17$ per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 71 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. For other industrial centrifuges, including those for use in the coal and metallurgical industries, the reductions are 25 per cent, ad valorem. General Tariff, and 7i per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. 
Concerning extrusion presses the Tariff Board has recommended increases on the existing duties of 7i per cent, ad valorem, General Ta rfT, and Free, Preferential Tariff. The increases are 22i per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 20 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. The Board found that the production of extrusion presses is a reasonable development for the local machinery manufacturing industry. It considers that the recommended rates would afford reasonable assistance for the production of these presses, and provide an opportunity for greater utilisation of existing plant capacity. In its report on screws for wood the Board recommended that protective duties of 40 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 30 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff, should apply. This represents an increase in the level of duties of between 7 per cent, ad valorem to 20 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff and about 20 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff, according to the type of screw affected. 
Turning now to the report on weighing machinery and weights. I point out that the Tariff Board recommended that rates of 40 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 25 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff, be applied to spring balances and price computing scales. This recommendation does not alter the General Tariff rale but increases the Preferential Tariff rate by 74 per cent, ad valorem. The Board recommended that imports of automatic or continuous weighing machines and check-weighers should bc dutiable at rates of 20 per cent, ad valorem. General Tariff, and 10 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. This represents an increase of 12+ per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 10 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff, for the majority of automatic and continuous weighing machine;. The duties on checkweighers are reduced from 40 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 17 J per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. Rates of 20 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 10 per cent, ad valorem. Preferential Tariff, have also been recommended for heavy industrial weighing machines. For these machines the new duties mean a reduction of 20 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 7i per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. 
In respect of light industrial and domestic scales the Tariff Board has recommended rates of 30 per cent, ad valorem. General Tariff, and 20 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. For sensitive balances under reference and weight-count machines these rales constitute an increase over the old rates of 7i per cent, ad valorem. General Tariff, and Free, Preferential Tariff. For other light industrial and domestic scales the General Tariff rate has been reduced by 10 per cent, ad valorem, and the Preferential tariff rate increased by 2i per cent, ad valorem. The Tariff Board has recommended that weights for weighing machines when imported separately be dutiable at 20 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and 10 per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. The new rates represent in the main a reduction of 20 per cent, ad valorem, General Tariff, and  1  per cent, ad valorem, Preferential Tariff. 
In its report on Factice the Board recommended a duty level of 10 per cent, ad valorem, under both the General and Preferential Tariffs. The goods were previously free of duly from ail countries. 1 commend the Proposals lo honourable members. 
CUSTOMS TARIFF PROPOSALS No. 12 (1970) 11 JUNE 1970 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I ask: What progress has been made with the review of the Trade Practices Act referred to by the Prime Minister in his speech yesterday? In this review will it be clearly borne in mind that the retention of the protracted and cumbersome processes of case by case examination of horizontal price fixing agreements between supposed competitors would be an illogical anomaly now that there is virtually a general prohibition of the practice of resale price maintenance? Will it be borne in mind that these horizonal agreements, which are if anything much more pervasive in their adverse effect on prices than resale price maintenance, ought to be the subject of the same kind of virtually general prohibition? 
I feel I should participate in this debate on one aspect of the issues that have been raised. Some suggestion has been made that the proposal to have the Assistant Ministers sworn of the Executive Council so that they make undertake the duties to be placed upon them is unconstitutional. That is the suggestion, as I understand it. that has been made. When I was the AttorneyGeneral I had occasion to consider very fully the question of the constitutionality of the appointment of Assistant Ministers. I considered the matter myself and I had the benefit of the advice of senior officers in the Attorney-General's Department. I think I should tell the House that I am quite satisfied that the proposal announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  during the last session is perfectly constitutional having regard to the duties which it is proposed should repose in these honourable gentlemen. I think that ought to be said because one does not want any doubts being lightly bandied about on such a serious question. In view of my legal opinion on this subject I must support the right of a Prime Minister to obtain the assistance of honourable gentlemen and to have them sworn as members of the Executive Council. I do not question the Prime Minister's right to do that. If he thinks that that is an effective way of adding to the resources available to government, I for one would not wish to part company from him on the topic. I think that all honourable members would be at one in expressing the view that the gentlemen selected for the offences proposed for them- 
The only reason I raised the matter was that a suggestion was made very clearly from the other side of the House - I was here and I heard it - that the proposed appointments are unconstitutional.  Mr Speaker,  I shall not canvass your ruling. I support the Prime Minister's right to do what he proposes to do, but 1 must say - 4 think I ought to express my view so that it will be known by those who have to make a decision on the matter - that I incline very strongly to the view that it would be a gracious way of dealing with the problem if the House were allowed to debate the substantive matter. I am sure that the Prime Minister would be the last person who would wish to give any ground for thinking that he was being discourteous to this House, or to our collective will. I offer that view tentatively and with some hesitation, but I thought I ought to say what I have said. 
1 had anticipated that the Opposition, having expressed great anxiety to have this matter debated, might have come into the House and put up a  speaker  who was prepared to deal with the subject as a serious subject. We have heard the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  describe the Prime Minister as rushing around like a Mallee bull. All I can say to the honourable member for Hindmarsh in that his contribution to the debate did not have any sort of Clydesdale quality about it. He was content to clown, and it is perhaps a pity that a subject which we thought was to be treated as a serious subject has been discussed by the honourable member in this vein. 
I regard the matter that has been raised in this motion - that the House disapprove the Prime Minister's decision to appoint Assistant Ministers - as one that raises serious questions of principle. There are two main questions. The first is the constitutional question. That has been raised by honourable members on the other side of the House. It was raised in the debate this morning. I sought an opportunity to talk on the constitutional position, but your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  prevented me from exploiting it. I want to say something very briefly about that in this debate because this is the appropriate time to say it. The second question, also a question of principle, is whether the Assistant Minister! ought to  be  appointed, ls their appointment likely to promote the dispatch of Government business? ls it likely to improve the quality of administration? I say quite unequivocally that if the Prime Minister wants to appoint these gentlemen to these new offices, it is his right to do so. It is he who has to make the judgment and take the responsibility. He has exercised his judgment. The responsibility for the succeess or failure of this renewed experiment will be his. He is confident that the step he proposes taking will improve the quality of the administration. I think that if the subject is to be treated seriously, the Prime Minister's decision, carrying with it the responsibility that I have described, ought to be respected by the House. To put it in plain language, the experiment should be allowed to start and the new system should be given a go. J do not think it is for this House to express by a vote any disapproval of the decision that the Prime Minister, as head of the Government, has made. That is my position quite clearly. 
One might well ask. I am glad that the honourable member for Kingston has questioned what we are doing here debating this subject this afternoon. I would have thought that if the Opposition had any real dedication to getting the business of Government done and making its own contribution to the business of Government it would have seen to it that this afternoon was better spent than in debating his motion on the level at which the honourable member for Hindmarsh was prepared to debate it. 
I want to leave that part of the subject and go now to the constitutional position. One of my last tasks as Attorney-General was to tender some advice on the constitutionality or otherwise of the proposal to appoint Assistant Ministers or, as they might otherwise be called but are not being called, parliamentary under-secretaries. In examining this question of the constitutionality of the proposal, we should first of all bear in mind that this is no novel experiment. This course of appointing Assistant Ministers or honorary Ministers has been taken before. In the 1950s there were people called parliamentary undersecretaries. So, we are not dealing with something that has arisen now for the first time. We should take note of the fact that the only person who raised any question against the constitutionality of appointing gentlemen to assist Ministers of the Crown was  Mr Speaker  Cameron, who did so in 1952. Before he raised this doubt - perhaps it should not be called a doubt - nobody else had raised the question. It was taken for granted that this was a perfectly constitutional proposal. I do not suppose  Mr Speaker  Cameron ever spoke so mildly as to express doubts; he was rather more definite in his views at all times. But when he raised questions in 1952 they were dealt with, and dealt with very fully and effectively, by the Prime Minister of the day, the then  Mr Menzies. 
When I came to advise on this question in March, shortly before I left office, I considered the matter myself, I consulted with senior people in what was then my Department and I looked at the previous opinions and expressions of view. I came quite clearly to the conclusion, which I still hold without any doubt, that the appointment of Assistant Ministers - they receiving no emolument for performing the duties they will perform - offends against nothing in the Constitution and offends against no constitutional convention or principle. The plain fact is that these gentlemen, when they are sworn in as Executive Councillors, will have allotted to them duties which involve in no way the actual administration of a department. They will at most be deputies in relation to certain relatively minor matters. I say this not in any sense denigrating the positions they will occupy. They will be the express deputies of the Ministers whom they are appointed to help. 
Section 19 of the Acts Interpretation  ct  provides for this sort of thing to hap- pen and gives it legal sanction. It is important to observe that, so long as these gentlemen receive no salary for the duties they perform and receive no more than a recompense of their reasonable travelling expenses, no question of their disqualification from the Parliament will arise. 
Because if they were paid it could be said that they were occupying an office of profit under the Crown and that would entail disqualification from the Parliament. So, to avoid the risk of disqualification it is clearly provided for in the arrangements proposed by the Prime Minister that these gentlemen will receive no pecuniary reward for the services they will undertake. It is because of this, as well as the other reasons I have endeavoured to express, that there arises no doubt in my mind as to the perfect constitutional propriety of this proposal. I would like to sum up the legal and constitutional position, as I see it and as I saw it when I advised as Attorney-General, in this way:   a Member of Parliament not appointed to administer a Department of State - 
may be appointed to be a member of the Federal Executive Council under section 62 of the Constitution; 
A person does not have to be a member of Parliament or a Minister of State to qualify for appointment as an Executive Councillor; the decision or choice is that of the Governor-General of the day - 
may be designated by the Prime Minister to be an Assistant Minister or a Minister without portfolio or a Parliamentary Under-Secretary - 
It is merely a matter of terminology -  but this does not make him a Minister of State in the constitutional sense; 
cannot be paid any emoluments in respect of his duties as a member of the Federal Executive Council or as Assistant Minister, Minister without portfolio or Parliamentary Under-Secretary, other than travelling expenses incurred in performing his duties; 
may, as a member of the Federal Executive Council, exercise, on behalf of a Minister of Stale, if authorised to act on behalf of that Minister, any statutory function of the Minister, by virtue of section 19 of the Acts Interpretation Act. This would include approving of appointments and performing other functions expressly conferred on the Minister by legislation; 
may be a member of Cabinet and may make inquiries, conduct correspondence as authorised by the Minister of State whom he is appointed to assist and may receive deputations on behalf of that Minister. 
Those are the conclusions I reached. I stand by those conclusions. I hope that I have made a contribution to the debate that may be regarded as useful. I have tried to do that. 1 hope that the House, on this Friday afternoon, will try to discuss this subject on a serious level - that being the level of treatment it obviously deserves. 
In a notably constructive contribution to the discussion of Australia's role in international affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has delivered a message that is plain for all to see and understand. We stand on the threshold of a new era in which the direction and emphasis of our initiatives and of our actions are undergoing and will probably continue to undergo some pretty substantial changes. These changes will be dictated by the fact that we shall be very much more on our own than we have been in the past. 
Certain events of recent weeks show that Peking feels that it is impaled on the horns of a dilemma. Peking seems to fear that an American withdrawal from Asia may be followed by a Japanese takeover. To us that may seem to be a curious, even bizarre process of thought. But if we want to understand the attitudes of a nation we must try to understand how it came to be a nation. China's struggle to nationhood was bedevilled by aggression, including a lot of Japanese aggression. The greatest hope for a lasting accommodation between the conflicting interests so manifest in the South East Asian and East Asian area may lie along the path of endeavouring to convince the People's Republic of China that Japan has no territorial designs on Chinese territory and that neither the United States of America nor Japan wishes Japan to move into a vacuum left by an American withdrawal. 
Our second military involvement in 20 years in a major Asian war is about to terminate. Our forces have served with distinction in South Vietnam but they will return in circumstances that make it seem highly improbable that any Australian government will undertake a similar involvement in the reasonably foreseeable future. While it may be hoped that the conditions which gave rise to the commitment are not likely to recur, there are, I think, more basic reasons why history will not repeat itself with respect to the involvement of Australian forces in large scale military operations on the Asian mainland. I have always supported our commitment to Vietnam. It is not something that evokes in me any feeling of repentance. But there is about it a paradox with the consequences of which we shall live for a long time: Its public unpopularity has been in direct ratio to its success. No democratic government, however, can shoulder the burden of overseas military operations without heavily preponderant electoral support. Initially that support was forthcoming. But the tedium and the seeming lack of positive success of the operation eroded that support, in conjunction of course with a massive and successful propaganda campaign directed towards undermining public belief in the justice of the cause. This campaign has from time to time been assisted by the insensitivity - to use a mild word - of those whom we have sought to help to the necessity of respecting the values that intervention has been designed to protect. The present unsatisfactory position in relation to the presidential election in South Vietnam is an immediately contemporary example of the sort of thing that I have in mind. Our allies have not always been altogether helpful to those who want to help them. 
The result of the process of erosion to which I have referred has been to create a distinct change in the climate of public opinion in this country. That change will not be a passing phenomenon; it will manifest itself in a deep-seated aversion to involvement in warfare on the Asian mainland or its island rim. This is a fact of life which demands recognition in the formulation of our foreign and defence policy. No strategic design can be maintained except upon a firm base of domestic support. Forward defence was such a concept and it has served us well. But that base of support has been heavily undermined and it is no use ignoring this fact. To put it bluntly, I think - as I fervently hope - that it will be a very long time before Australian forces will be called on to take part in hostilities beyond the limits of what are presently Australia's external territories. We must, of course, remain prepared for the possibility of having to do more. The stance we may have to adopt from time to time is never in the nature of things totally predictable. 
We must never ignore from now on the welfare and security of the South Pacific, to which area the Minister for Foreign Affairs very properly devoted a large part of his statement. We have a substantial responsibility to help the states newly established or fast emerging in the South Pacific because few things could be more damaging to Australia's long term interests than for any of the island states or territories in the South Pacific to degenerate through lack of proper development assistance into a sort of maritime slum with all the potential for future subversion or aggression that such a condition may create. For that reason the Minister's announcement of a 40 per cent increase in Australia's economic assistance to the South Pacific area is most welcome. 
Whether people like it or not, we are fast coming to the end of any meaningful special relationship with the United Kingdom. We must face up to this fact. It is the unavoidable result of her decision to enter the European Economic Community. 
Of course the link with the Crown will remain and I hope will always be retained; but that is perhaps likely to assume a more formal and perhaps less personal character with the passage of time. There will always be certain ties of affection based on common ancestry and common traditions. But these ties will loosen as the original stock in our community becomes increasingly diluted in successive generations. None of these observations is intended to be unfriendly to the United Kingdom; to make them is merely to acknowledge reality. I understand and respect the United Kingdom's decision to go into Europe.  Her  failure to do so would have involved passing up her last chance of overcoming great weaknesses the origin of which may be traced to the massive social injustices of the 19th century and the cumulative enervation caused by major participation in two world wars. However, the termination of any special relationship with the United Kingdom requires that we should take certain consequential steps. 
There is now a stronger than ever case for removing the Australian High Commission in London from the administration of the Prime Minister's Department and for placing it under the administration of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Further, I can see no reason for maintaining what is now a largely empty distinction between the Office of High Commissioner and that of Ambassador. As I understand it, the description of a person as High Commissioner whose work is in truth that of an Ambassador is intended to reflect the closer ties that are supposed to exist by virtue of common membership of the Commonwealth. It would be an idle pretence to assert that these ties have not become greatly weakened. As an association the Commonwealth - using that term in its non-Australian sense - has a greatly diminished utility. It has lost much of its relevance because so many of its members have so little in common, except in some instances a desire to use meetings arranged pursuant to the elaborate fiction that they are family gatherings as occasions for vituperative recrimination against other members. Often this sort of conduct is designed primarily for home consumption. I hope that the frequency of meetings of Commonwealth Prime Ministers will diminish consistently with their virtual inutility. By and large, our discourse in the international field will be better conducted if we discard the shibboleth that all members of the Commonwealth have meaningful family ties. 1 want to emphasise the need, as I see it, to keep public discussion of Australia's international relations on a high level. For too long, we have suffered from a tendency to conduct debate on these important issues in terms of personalities rather than policies. 
And Opposition members have been just as much to blame as other people. We have on our hands a great problem in seeking to establish normal relations with the People's Republic of China. It is not a problem that will bc solved overnight. Parties whose respective attitudes are crucial to a solution have taken up quite inflexible stances. We shall need to practice the virtues of patience and coolness. We shall need to be hard-headed. In this connection, I do not see why the move towards normalisation, to use a horrible in-word, of our relations with the People's Republic of China should be accompanied - as some members of the Labor Party seem to want - by a move to exclude discourse with South Africa. 
Still speaking in this vein, if I think that the performance of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in Peking is open to criticism and was in some respects, as I believe, not such as to serve Australia's best interests, I must say that I feel no compulsion whatsoever to denigrate him as a disgrace to Australia or as the Chinese candidate in our next general election. Nor do I see any evidence that he has made some secret pact with the People's Republic of China. Verbal ballistics in the end serve no great purpose. They may help to secure the support of some people, but I am hopeful enough to think that such support can be commanded by resort to other techniques, perhaps more constructive techniques. 
In conclusion, I would say this: As we stand at what I regard as a watershed in some very important aspects of our foreign relations, it behoves all members of every Party represented in this Parliament to consider afresh some of the attitudes that they may have adopted in the past. I instance this case: How long is the pre sence of Australian ground forces in the Malaysia-Singapore area likely to remain - warranted? I believe it is warranted at the moment. How long are the governments of those countries likely to want them there? The relevance to Australia's defence needs of their continued presence there for any prolonged period of time ought to be considered, as I would think it is being considered. 
Last but not least, the major parties ought to try to hammer out a bipartisan approach to some of the major issues of foreign policy. This will never be easy. It may seldom be possible. But the attempt should be made, not least for the reason that in my belief the people of Australia want it to be made. We face testing times in which it will be a wasteful and expensive luxury to indulge in avoidable divisions. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in metropolitan and rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, morals and way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister agree that before the proposed uniform disciplinary code for the Services can be introduced as a Bill it will be necessary for the Government to decide whether the death penalty should be retained for certain offences? Has any consideration recently been given to this question? When may a decision be expected? 
I have no need to emphasise the importance of the decision that was given by the High Court of Australia on Friday. That has been done very eloquently by my honourable and learned friend, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and by the honourable member; for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)..  It is a decision with momentous-consequences for our future as a country and as a nation. It is a decision which has been met to some extent with mixed reactions. I heard on the radio this morning that one newspaper - I think it was in Western Australia - described it as a blow to federalism. Federalism is one .of those -Alice in Wonderland-Humpty Dumpty ,. kind of words. One remembers that Humpty Dumpty said to Alice that , words mean exactly what one wants them to -mean. To me, federalism involves as a basic fact living under a federal constitution and if one is to live under a federal constitution it is one of the primary duties of the federal government, the national government, to explore the limits of constitutional power given to it under that constitution and then, having explored them with a view to ascertaining them by judicial decision, act within them in what one conceives to be the national interest. I think that if that is one of the true aspects of federalism, as I believe it to be, this decision will unlock the doors to a great deal of very important ideological disputation in this country in the future. 
Standing here this afternoon I can foresee that in the years to come - I hope I shall be in this Parliament in the years to come although that is perhaps a matter of doubt - we shall be having debates here which, in terms of the competing ideologies relating to the way the economic life of this country should be run, will be of perhaps greater momentousness than hitherto because we will be debating in a situation where we know that the Commonwealth Parliament has greater powers than hitherto it was thought to have. I think that this will lead to a different direction in the debates and the formulation of policies in this place. I hope that as these new doors are opening we can keep our ideological debates on a high level. I think we shall need to do so if this country is to be set on the course on which we on both sides of the House want it to go, and that is the course towards greater advancement; although on each side of the House we have very different views as to how that advancement is to be best secured. 
I thank the Leader of the Opposition and the other honourable gentlemen who have spoken in this debate for saying the nice things that they did about my part in the events that led to this decision. If I may say so to the Leader of the Opposition, 1 shall perhaps quote his words, but possibly without attribution, in another place. I am sure he will not mind. Great questions of policy open up for the Government's consideration and I was delighted to hear, as we heard this afternoon, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  saying that this is to be treated as a matter of great urgency. I welcome the decision, which is the only possible decision to take in the circumstances, that legislation be introduced as a matter of extreme urgency to render the Act in its present structure viable on a temporary basis. I think it is implicit in what the Prime Minister said this afternoon that the Government already recognises that this will not be enough in itself. We on this side of the House owe a duty to the country and also, by the way, a duty with a view to our own electoral survival, not to misuse this great opportunity that has been placed before us. 
We must not, and I am sure we shall not, incur the criticism that was incurred by the Liberals who were led by  Mr Asquith  in the early part of this century in England criticised for advancing upon measures of social reform with noisy mouths and mouse-like feet. I am sure that we shall not do this and I am sure that the Government recognises - it is plainly implicit in what the Prime Minister said this afternoon - that here we have opening up before us a very great opportunity to introduce in this country on a national level effective trade practices legislation that will recognise, firstly, that private enterprise must be free enterprise and not merely private enterprise and that that enterprise must be subject to reasonable restraints in the public interest, those restraints being restraints that are designed to sure the virtues and advantages of true freedom of competition, not altogether cutthroat freedom and not the 19th century laissez-faire Liberal type of freedom that went too far, but the true virtues of freedom of competition. I think this is where some of the great ideological debates will open up. 
I can imagine that honourable gentlemen opposite, if they gain the treasury benches, will wish to use the corporation power in very different ways from the ways in which I would want to use them. If they ever get there  -  I hope they will not  -  I will be fighting them tooth and nail to put the other view. It seems to me that what the Government ought to consider and carry into execution is the original scheme propounded by  Sir Garfield  Barwick. I am disposed readily to agree with the remarks made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs this afternoon when he expressed grave doubts about the efficacy of the rather blunt weapon provided by the Australian Industries Preservation Act. I think that weapon, that statutory scheme, left too much to the individual. It cast too much of a burden in costs on the individual. I think there should be room in any scheme of trade practices legislation for the individual litigant to seek an injunction for damages in appropriate cases. Of course, that principle is recognised and very well carried into execution in the legislative scheme relating to resale price maintenance. 
The principle of treble damages is all very well, but suing for treble damages involves bringing actions of great complexity and great potential cost to litigants. That is the reservation 1 wish to enter. It is not a point upon which I wish to express any concluded view at the moment. All I say is that, looking at things in the present, I am disposed to think that there is considerable force in what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his criticism of the basic scheme of the Australian Industries Preservation Act. I think we must return to what is after all a very good basic common law principle and that is that he who undertakes restraint of trade must have cast fairly and squarely upon him the onus of establishing that the restraint serves the public interest. I have heard it said - I do not think rightly said - that it is somehow unjust to cast upon parties to anti-competitive agreements the onus of justifying those agreements as being in the public interest. The common law was quite clear upon this, and I think we should return to the sound common sense of the common law. The onus should be upon the person who wishes to restrain competition to show that that restraint serves the public interest. 
There is a fair presumption, if we are to believe in the virtues of a free enterprise economy, that restraint of competition is inimical, generally speaking, to the public interest. If we have a statutory scheme involving the keeping of a register of anticompetitive agreements that register should be open for all to read if they want to read it. After all, one of the great arguments between both, sides of politics is as to whether price fixing by legislation is a good thing or a bad thing. For what I think to be sound economic reasons, I believe it is on the whole a bad thing except in exceptional circumstances such as war. (Extension of time granted.) I am indebted to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  for his kindness and to the House for taking heed of his kindness, in granting me an extension of time. I was saying that price fixing by legislation is a matter upon which there is room for debate. I believe that it is economically unsound, but at least price fixing by legislation is price fixing in a context in which the public can see what is happening. It can see what is written in the statute or the regulation. I think therefore that if one is to tolerate the possibility of price fixing in the form of anti-competitive arrangements by private compact, the compact should not remain private after it is written; the compact should be registered and available for full scrutiny by. interested members of the public and by appropriate government officials. 
One cannot in a debate of this length  do  more than mention a few of the points that need to be discussed in great depth and in great detail. However, I am glad to have taken part in the debate this afternoon. This Government has an opportunity as a result of last Friday's decision of the High Court of Australia, to make a great impact for the public good upon the commercial life of this country. It can enact legislation. I am greatly encouraged, by what the Prime Minister has said this afternoon, to believe that it will enact legislation that will preserve the best features of the system of free enterprise,' eradicating some of the bad features that none of us wants to see perpetuated. 
This Budget debate is now in its penultimate day, and were I to attempt to expatiate on the grand strategy of the Budget for the purpose either of commending it or of criticising it, I should imagine that very quickly there would be fewer members in the House than there are at present. I think that the time has passed when any useful contribution to the debate can be made by dealing with the Budget broadly. At the outset of my remarks I would like to say something about the amendment that was moved weeks ago by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The proposed amendment seeks to criticise the Government for the alleged reason that the Budget contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government. 
All I can say about that part of the amendment is that it seems to have been proposed in a sort of mental vacuum on the part of the Opposition, ft completely ignores the significant consequences of the 1970 and 1971 Premiers Conferences. To say now that the Commonwealth Government has made no significant steps towards resolving some of the great problems of Commonwealth-State financial relationships is to beat the air with an utterly fanciful proposition. The position is best summarised by a passage in the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in which the honourable gentleman, when referring to the outcome of the 1970 and 1971 Premiers Conferences, said: 
Recent developments have led to a significant improvement in Commonwealth-State financial arrangements. The new grants formula settled in June 1970 is increasing State revenues considerably. 
It is important to bear in mind when one is considering the validity of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition that the effect of the arrangements made at those 2 Conferences - part of which arrangements is to be carried into effect by this Bill - is to increase State revenues at a substantially faster rate than Commonwealth expenditures will be increasing in this year. The precise figures are set out in the second reading speech of the Treasurer. I will not travel over that ground again. It is important to bear in mind that under the arrangements that have been made and that are proposed, Commonwealth expenditures will not increase at the same rate as State expenditures will be able to increase in the current financial year. So much for my remarks on the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. There is much more that one could say, but many people have said it better than I would be able to say it. 
I want to address my remarks to one aspect of the Budget proposals that may not so far have received a great deal of attention. In his second reading speech the Treasurer announced that part of the Budget proposals consists of a decision by the Government to increase from $300 to $400 per annum the maximum deduction allowable to a taxpayer for the education expenses of a dependent full time student child. It is interesting by way of background to recall the history of concessional deductions for education expenses. The idea originated in the Budget of 19S2 when, for the first time, a concessional deduction was allowed for education expenses of dependent children. The deduction was then fixed at 50; that is to say, $100. The figure stood at that amount until 1965, when it was increased to $300. Now, 6 years later, the figure is to be increased from $300 to $400. 
I want to say at the outset that, considered by itself, the proposed increase is thoroughly justifiable. It goes without saying that the cost to parents of educating their children, particularly at independent schools, has risen in the last 6 years much more sharply than will be fully allowed for by means of the increase of $100 proposed in this Budget. So the fact that there is an increase is, in itself and considered by itself, a good thing. The time has come when the Government ought to be turning its mind to some of the questions of principle involved in the idea of granting a concessional deduction in respect of particular expenses of a taxpayer. In the main the question of principle falls to be considered with reference to concessional deductions for education expenses and concessional deductions for medical expenses. I understand that the Commissioner of Taxation has for some time past been conducting his own review of various aspects of our taxation system, particularly our income tax system. As I said a moment ago, I think it is time that we turned our minds to this quite important question of principle - that is, whether concessional deductions for education expenses and medical expenses serve to create a situation of equity as between all taxpayers. I understand it to be the essence of any good system of taxation of people's incomes that the tax should be progressive rather than regressive. There is, of course, considerable room in other fields of taxation for those types of tax that are called regressive taxes - taxes that hit every taxpayer, whether he be on a small income or a large income, by the same amount or to the same extent, so that the burden falls more heavily on a person on a low income than it does on a person on a high income. Sales tax is a prime example of this. 
There is room in any system of taxation, if one is to consider the necessity of controlling the economy by fiscal means, for a degree of regressive taxation. But when we come to the field of income tax I believe quite firmly that we should as far as possible seek to preserve this system as a progressive system of taxation. I use the word 'progressive' in a special sense, meaning that the burden of taxes will fall most heavily upon those who can best afford to pay them. The trouble that I experience in my mind about the system of concessional deductions, especially in relation to education expenses, is that that form of deduction does introduce into what should be as far as possible a progressive system of taxation a regressive element for the reason that the advantage of the concessional deduction is far greater for the man on a high income than it is for a man on a low income. 
The position can very easily be illustrated by reference to some figures. I confess that these figures are not altogether up to date but they will serve for the purposes of illustration. The advantage of a concessional deduction of  $400  for a taxpayer with a returned income for tax purposes of  $9,000  is  $205.  That is what he saves in tax by claiming a concessional deduction of  $400.  If he has an income of only  $4,000  the taxpayer who claims a concessional deduction of  $400  will save only  $131  in tax. On the other hand, taking as an example those nearer to the higher end of the income scale, a taxpayer on a returned income before tax of  $30,000  will save in tax by claiming a concessional deduction of  $400  no less than  $259.  I hasten to say that these figures are based on the general rate of income tax unaffected by the special levy of  2i  per cent which in this Budget becomes a special levy of  5  per cent. 
The point I want to make is this: We ought to be looking for some alternative means other than a concessional deduction which will serve to equalise the person on a low income vis-a-vis the taxpayer on a high income. There is an essential inequity in the present system and what I would propose is not the total abolition of the concessional deduction for education expenses; rather would I propose that there be introduced into the law a provision whereby the taxpayer is given the option of claiming a rebate of tax in respect of education expenses incurred by him up to a certain amount of money so that with  2  options open to taxpayers the man on the high income can opt to take the concessional deduction and so save himself tax. In the case of the man on  $30,000  a year he would save approximately  $260.  I am picking this figure out of the air - the selection of the figure would be a matter of fine judgment and would require a lot of detailed work. A man on a low income should be allowed to claim, say, a rebate of tax in respect of education expenses to a sum of  S200  or  S250.  It is only by introducing some alternative such as I have proposed that we will introduce a necessary degree of equity into this part of our taxation system. 
Why is it important that we should turn our minds to this sort of problem at this time? If we believe, as honourable members on this side of the House certainly believe, in the virtues of a free enterprise society - perhaps those virtues are not practised now as much as they ought to be - and if we believe that a healthy diversity comes from the institution which is known as a pluralist society, the Government should be encouraging individuals in the community to be self-reliant wherever possible in relation to such activities as the education of their children. There is no harm, as  1  see it, and there is great good, as I see it, in encouraging the maintenance and the promotion of a viable independent school system - not fostering it or encouraging it to the detriment of the public sector of education. The aim should be to see as far as government can possibly do so that both systems - the private system and the independent system - work side by side in their different ways with their different techniques to the general community advantage. Therefore it seems to me it should be a prime task of government in the field of education to encourage parents to invest in the education of their children in the independent school system if that be their will. lt seems to me that it is also important that the independent school system should not become the preserve of a thin upper crust of the children of very high income earners. It seems to me therefore that if we were to implement the broad idea I have tried to put to the House of giving an option in respect of education expenses to the taxpayer on a lower income we would be doing something to foster the best elements in the independent school system. We would be encouraging parents not to rely on the State at all times, which they are entitled to do if they wish in relation to the education of their children. The creation of this option would give to the parents on lower incomes an opportunity which they are perhaps now denied under the simple system - the regressive system - of concessional deductions. I think it is important that the Commonwealth Government should take the initiative as soon as possible in this field. I think it is important for the Commonwealth Government to turn its attention very quickly towards using the taxation system in aid of the independent school system. It will not of course be used solely in aid of the independent school system because it must be borne in mind that parents of children at government schools are entitled to claim a concessional deduction in respect of incidental expenses arising from the education of their children at those schools. 
We on this side of the House must remember that in 1969 a great initiative was taken with the avowed aim of enabling the independent schools to continue in the future to provide the services that they ought to be able to provide to maintain a healthy national condition in the education of the children of this country. The House will remember that the initiative that was taken in 1969 was to provide for the first time at Commonwealth level per capita grants of $50 in the case of secondary school students and $35 in the case of primary school students. It seems to me that in a real world any government must bear in mind that once you enter the field of giving direct assistance to a particular purpose or to a body of people it is not practicable and it ought not to be practic able to retire from the field or refuse to keep the payments up to a realistic level. However, it is perfectly plain that by reason of greatly increased financial assistance given to the States this Government has taken the view that the States from now on can undertake more of the responsibility of making per capita grants to parents of children in independent schools in aid of the education of those children. That may be an arguably good view. However, I happen to know that the failure of the Government to make increased provision by way of per capita grants in this year's Budget has been received with great regret and, indeed, dissatisfaction amongst important sectors of the community and I can understand their view. Therefore, if this position is to be remedied, the Government should act and act quickly within the framework of the taxation system to make it possible for people on lower incomes, if they so desire, to keep their children in independent schools. This can be done by the alternative I have proposed. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Bearing in mind that the present system of concessional tax deductions confers greater benefits on taxpayers with higher incomes than on taxpayers with low incomes, will the honourable gentleman have an investigation made as to the feasibility - and, as one aspect of feasibility, the cost to revenue - of amending the taxation law so as to provide for taxpayers who incur expenses on such items as educating their children the option of a tax rebate up to a certain amount in respect of such expenses as an alternative to claiming a concessional deduction? If the Treasurer wants any further details of this proposal, 1 refer him to a powerful speech made yesterday in the debate on the Budget. 
If the honourable member is congratulating me I thank him. But now, when the Vietnam commitment is terminating, why is it necessary to inject emotion almost to the point of prejudice into a debate upon a great national issue. What is the national issue? The national issue for the consideration of this House tonight is very pertinently pointed up by the principal amendment which is proposed by the Opposition to this Bill. The Opposition proposes to insert clause 3a by way of amendment in the Committee stage of the Bill. If passed by the House this clause will provide that the National Service Act as a whole shall cease to be in force as from the first day of January 1972. For a moment let us examine the full implications of that proposal. I think they are implications which, in fairness, should be examined and held up to the cold light of scrutiny and criticism. I am glad to say that I have heard no-one on the Opposition side of the House maintain the proposition in this debate that an army of 28,000 men is sufficient to cope with the potential risks which we as a nation ought to cope with or be prepared to cope with. During the course of this day I have heard no-one from the Opposition benches propose that it would be a safe or a good thing to reduce the Army from its present size of 44,000 men to only 28,000 men. I can well understand that good judgment would predispose members of the Opposition against advancing any such argument. 
Yet the indisputable fact is that if the amendment which is proposed as representing the cornerstone of the Opposition's attitude towards this great matter of national service were carried, the effect would be that whereas on the 31st December 1971 the size of the Australian Regular Army would be 44,000 men, on the 1st January 1972 it would be reduced to 28,000 men - a number of men which the Opposition, by concession, admits would be inadequate for our defence purposes. Where  is  the logic in this proposition? I ask the Opposition: Can it point to the logic of moving an amendment which would reduce the size of the Army overnight between New Year's Eve and New Year's Day? 
I will come to that in a minute, if you will give me a chance. I do not propose to shirk that issue, but I am going to say something about it by way of gentle criticism of you, if you will spare me a few more minutes. Where is the logic in the principal Opposition amendment? The attempt to introduce some logic  is  made by the interjection which has just come from the honourable member for Bowman. He said: 'What about our proposals for better conditions of service*. That  is  a very curious suggestion to come from the Opposition. I have listened in vain during this debate for any expression in a concrete, practical form from any member of the Opposition of what, in terms of precision, should be proposed by way of better conditions of service. We have heard lots of loose talk about the trends in the United States of America and suggestions which have been made there about moving towards a voluntary system. It has not been sufficiently well recognised by the Opposition that the United States has only relatively recently realised that it ought to improve the pay and conditions of service of American servicemen, including conscripts, to the level which is enjoyed by members of our armed services, including all conscipts I would think that if there were to be any real force in the suggestion by the Opposition that conscription will become unnecessary so long as we improve the pay and conditions of service of servicemen then the Opposition should at least come forward in this debate and say precisely what better conditions of service and of pay it proposes. But on this point we have heard nothing but a deafening silence. As far as I can see, on that we will hear a deafening silence from the Opposition during the rest of this debate. 
As I understand it no honourable member opposite has challenged the statement that pay and conditions of service of the Australian armed forces generally are more nearly comparable in a real and a practical sense to civilian conditions of pay and service than those in any other country. Let nobody on the other side of the House deny that. Honourable members opposite have not attempted to deny that situation and they cannot, because in all honesty they cannot. So what are these better conditions of pay and service to be? What are honourable members opposite suggesting? Are they suggesting that we should pay privates in the Army at the level of the top of a Second Division officer of the Commonwealth Public Service or at some other level of the Second Division or Third Division? I do not know. We have not been let into the confidence of the Opposition. It has no precision of thought or of ideas on what I would have thought were some basic practical problems. Until the Opposition can come good with some constructive suggestions on these points its arguments will continue to lack conviction. The plain fact is that it is the prime duty of any government, as is admitted on the other side of the House, to make proper provision for the defence of the country against external aggression and this matter of what is proper provision is not a matter of mere political judgment. Perhaps not many practising politicians aspire to statesmanship and if they do they do not often realise their aspirations. But this area of defence policy is, above all areas of policy, an area in which we on both sides of politics should try as hard as we can to be statesmen rather than mere party politicians. 
And indeed for the country and for ourselves. The question of what level is necessary to be maintained in the interests of the defence of the country is not just a question of political judgment.  lt is  a question of much more importance than merely political judgment. We should try to exercise the art of statesmanship and in this area of policy it is a good working rule that no government will ignore the advice of its military advisers except for the most weighty and powerful reasons and it is not a weighty and . powerful reason that a particular course of policy that military advisers say is requisite may be electorally unpopular. 
With all due respect to the honourable member for Prospect I think that is a singularly unprospective remark. It may be fairly assumed as a matter of common sense that the decision that was taken by the Menzies Government in 1964 to introduce conscription was not taken by way of frolic. It was taken in a context of a serious character. The then rate of recruitment for the armed services was such that there was no reasonable prospect of the target then postulated as desirable or necessary by the military advisers being reached in time. Events over the last 7 years have shown that notwithstanding the most substantial improvements in pay and conditions of service we would not have now an Army of the size that our military advisers now say is necessary if we are to retain the necessary defence capability - the necessary capability to cope with the contingent risks that are in prospect. 
The Opposition has not told us how we are to get an Array of 40,000. It ignores the work of the Government in improving conditions of housing and conditions of service. It ignores the decision of the Government to appoint the Kerr Committee and the many major recommendations that have been implemented to improve pay and conditions of service in the Army, Navy and Air Force. 1 implore the House to look at this matter dispassionately and objectively. Let us take the situation to be as it obviously is. The defence advisers of the Government presumably go along with the idea - I have no doubt of this - that we can get by for the lime being with an Army of 40,000 men instead of an army of 44,000 men. This is a singularly fortunate thing. Four thousand mcn will be released for more productive employment in the national interest. Four thousand men will be released from the bondage of conscription, for it is a form of bondage but it is a form of bondage that the national interest unfortunately dictates should be imposed. Until the Opposition can present to the House and to the country alternative practical proposals in lieu of conscription it is the height of folly and, 1 would venture to say, something bordering on political irresponsibility for it to be proposing that overnight on 31st December 1971 conscription should be abolished and the Army reduced to a size that the Opposition admits would be inadequate to preserve a proper defence capability for this country. 
In this speech I am not interested whether I win pre-selection. I am trying to propound what I regard as self evident truths in what I see as the national interest. I do not care whether I hang or live. 
Let me first assure the House that 1 do not propose to respond to the alluring invitation that has been extended by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren). 
I am going to win that anyway, without the honourable member's help - and I know that he wants to help. 
I am at long odds on. I can survive the neo-Cromwellian revolutionary. I remain depressed by the course that this debate has taken - I say that with considerable respect to my 2 friends sitting on the front bench of the Opposition - because it is about time that members of the Opposition, if they will permit me to say so, addressed themselves to this question without regard to the very understandable emotional involvement which they have about Vietnam. 
I said that I understand the emotional involvement of members of the Opposition in regard to Vietnam. I believe, as members of the Opposition disbelieve, that our commitment to Vietnam was a proper commitment. 
I do not know it. I believe strongly to the contrary but I would defend to my last dying breath the right of the Opposition to maintain a contrary view. What I am trying to say, despite the friendly interjections from the other side of the House, is this: We have to face up to the question of how to maintain at a proper level the strength of the Army now and for the foreseeable future, without regard to what I would describe as emotional hangups about Vietnam. 
The honourable member who has just interjected does not want to tolerate any attempt at a dispassionate discussion of an important problem. I do wish that he could bring to himself a little tolerance on a matter that I regard as terribly important. What is the basic problem? At no stage - I did not hear the honourable member for Reid or the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  say it - has the Opposition propounded or dared to- propound the idea that a defence force or a regular army of only 28,000 men is adequate for our present purposes. 
Precisely, and I give the Deputy Leader of the Opposition credit for propounding that view. I applaud him for it. He said that the size of the Army should be increased. The Government's present stand is that we can live - 1 doubt whether we can live for very long - with an Army of 40,000 men. 
 As  usual, there seems to be a little division within the Opposition. Some honourable members say increase the numbers and other honourable members say decrease them. However, I suppose there are divisions on questions of principle within every Party. 
I am enjoying myself on the back bench. 
No, I am content where I am. The front bench members of the Opposition say we should increase the size of the Army. The Opposition is adopting a curious and inconsistent stance, for it has moved in this Committee an amendment, the immediate effect of which, on 1st January 1972, would be to decrease at one fell blow the size of the Australian Regular Army from 40,000 men, which my friend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition says is not enough, to 28,000 men. Where is the sense and the consistency in this attitude? 1 think that this is the basic question to which we must address ourselves and when we arc addressing ourselves to it let us look at some contemporary and relevant facts, one of which is that in this country - thank goodness - we are passing through a salutary social revolution in the field of education. More and more young people are advancing not only to higher secondary education but also to tertiary education. The percentage of young people going into tertiary education is increasing year by year and nobody in this House would do other than applaud this situation. It is a thoroughly good thing. But what are the consequences of this fact in relation to maintaining the size of an army? An army must be maintained at a size and of a structure necessary to cope with possible future threats. We must maintain a capability. One of the consequences is that in the nature of things, a career as a private or as a non commissioned officer in the Army is not a way of life that appeals to people who have gone through to tertiary education or perhaps even to higher secondary education. This is not a matter of complaint; it is a simple fact of life. As we go on increasing the pool of our educational resources amongst the. young - as they go on improving themselves in increasing volume - the plain fact is that the number of people who would find an Army career appealing or attractive diminishes. 
That is a monumentally fascinating contribution. The honourable member, who is sitting temporarily on the front bench, does not want to have an Army at all. Do we have to put up with that degree of inane thoughtlessness? My honourable friend will forgive me if I use rather extravagant words to describe that interjection. 
1 thought it was what you said. If the pool from which we can attract recruits is diminishing, what is the consequence? The consequence must be a system of conscription as equitable as circumstances will demand. I 'passe' the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who suggested that we shrink from this word 'conscription'. I adhere to it because that is a true description of what this legislation does. I agree that national service is a euphemism. Conscription is what it is all about. I will maintain as long as I am in this place that in present circumstances it is the only viable option open to a responsible government. With all respect to the men of great sincerity on the other side of the House who hold a contrary view, I would characterise this amendment as basically irresponsible. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government been able to reach a decision as to the content of new legislation, other than the necessary stop-gap legislation, designed to control horizontal anti-competitive agreements and practices entered into by foreign corporations and trading and financial corporations? I also ask whether, in view of widespread public interest in this subject and the fact that legislation on such a complicated subject will inevitably take some time to prepare, he might consider when a decision is made, making a public announcement so that the public will be aware of what is afoot. 
I listened with interest to the contribution made to this debate by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I am in general agreement with him on one point, but on another point I think he may have fallen into an error of fact. The honourable member suggested to the Committee that not enough was being done inside the Commonwealth Taxation Office to rearrange its activities with a view to being able more efficiently to cope with the increased demands made upon that Office by reason of the greatly increased burden placed upon it resulting from a number of activities on the part of taxpayers including activities designed to avoid the payment of tax. All I want to say about that matter is that I think the honourable member did fall into an error of fact. 
If the honourable member had consulted the forty-ninth report of the Commissioner of Taxation for the year 1969-70 he would have found that during that year a major review was undertaken of the upper executive structure in the Commonwealth Taxation Office. The structure of the Office was reorganised. Additional senior officers were appointed. Part of the purpose of this general reorganisation was to establish a Policy and Legislation Division. On page 8 of that report a chart is embodied. According to the chart, the Policy and Legislation Division is charged with the responsibility of controlling policy considerations in the Taxation Office associated with proposals for a new or amended legislation other than matters relating to classification and exemption in the area of sales tax. 
The honourable member for Adelaide went on to suggest - here I do agree with him - that in this country .now we should be considering the appointment of a committee to inquire into the whole taxation system. I agree with that suggestion. The relevant facts, it seems to me, are these: In December 1959 the Government appointed the Ligertwood Committee. . Within 18 months that Committee produced a most valuable report on a number of aspects of the Commonwealth taxation system. I need not bother the Committee with the terms of reference of the Ligertwood Committee. They were wide, but in one respect they were restricted. From my reading of the terms of reference, there was not committed to the consideration of the Ligertwood Committee the question of the wisdom or otherwise of altering the taxation laws of the Commonwealth so as to impose some form of capital gains tax. I am not advocating in this Committee at this stage the imposition of a capital gains tax. I am saying, however, that in my judgment this is a question that is well worth looking into. 
The position appears to me to be this: It is now 10 yeaTs since the Ligertwood Committee presented its report. In that time, the ingenuity of those professional people who advise taxpayers how best to avoid the incidence of taxation in its various forms, but particularly income tax, has not lain fallow. Those people have been busy in the intervening 10 years and many taxpayers have avoided the payment of a great deal of tax. The law reports are an eloquent page of history in this respect. Great problems have arisen because of judicial interpretation of section 260 of the 
Income Tax Act. This is the section wirier strikes down arrangements or agreements made with intent to avoid the payment of tax. Without going into the fine detail of judicial decisions - one just cannot do that in a 10 minute speech - I think it is fair to put the position, in a summarised form, in this way: Section 260 is perhaps a less useful weapon as a result of judicial interpretation - I make no criticism of the bench in this respect - than the people who framed section 260 intended it to be. 
 In Canada in 1966 a Royal Commission - the Carter Commission - wa appointed to investigate the taxation system generally. In the result, that Commission came forward with a suggestion that is being substantially implemented for the introduction in Canada of a moderate capital gains tax. It is said by opponents of capital gains tax that such a tax is essentially unjust because it taxes productive resources. That argument has no great appeal to me because it seems to me out income tax laws are so framed as to tax, and to tax very substantially, productive resources. People who, by themselves or through their parents, have paid money for a good education so as to acquire an ability to earn a high rate of income have, in a very real sense, their productive resources taxed. I have never heard it argued against a high rate of income tax that this is unfair because productive resources are being taxed. That is, after all, what is being done. 
While there are arguments for. and against a capital gains tax - and I would not wish to express myself firmly in favour of its imposition at this stage - I do believe that the arguments should be investigated. It seems to me that as it is a long time since an independent committee of inquiry investigated our taxing structure and its operation the time has come to appoint another committee of the same kind as the Ligertwood Committee. In making that suggestion, I am not seeking in any way to denigrate the good work that, I understand, is being done and has been done over the last year inside the Commonwealth Taxation Office in the way of investigating anomalies with respect to tax avoidance. The published cases of tax avoidance, the ones which get into the law reports, are probably, I think, only the tip of the iceberg. 
Tax avoidance, although it is perfectly legal, is essentially inequitable. I doubt whether, with the best will in the world and the great dedication that we know there is among officers of the Commonwealth Taxation Office, the resources of that Office are sufficient in themselves to do ali the work that ought to be done in the way of investigating tax avoidance and suggesting remedies designed to stop it as far as possible. Tax avoidance in one form or another is an inseparable concomitant of any system of taxation. No government and no system of taxation can abolish it entirely. Human ingenuity, will always reach out to create new loopholes where old ones are blocked up. But I question whether the process of blocking up loopholes is proceeding fast enough. The report of the Commissioner of Taxation for the year ended 30th June 1970 indicates very plainly if one reads it that despite the structural reorganisation within the Commonwealth Taxation office the resources are still pretty thinly spread. Therefore I suggest that the Government give urgent consideration to the question of appointing a committee. I do not think it is sufficient to commit this large and very technical problem to a committee of the House although I do not wish for one moment to deprecate the very valuable and constructive suggestion made by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  in his speech last night on the estimates of the Parliament. I think there is room for such a committee to work alongside an expert committee of the type that I have suggested. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. Have reports come to the Minister's notice that a prospectus inviting the subscription of equity capital in certain Northern Territory properties in which  Sir William  Gunn is interested is on issue in New York but cannot be issued in Australia? Can the Minister confirm these reports? If the reports be correct will the Minister seek the advice of the Attorney-General as to whether legislative action can be taken to reinforce in any such case the Government's policy that overseas investment in Australian assets should, where possible, be accompanied by Australian equity participation? Will the Minister do whatever he can to ensure that this principle is upheld and that persons in the position of  Sir William  Gunn are not allowed free rein to sell large parcels of the Northern Territory to overseas investors without giving equal access to such investment to Australian investors? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament asembled. The humble petition of 10 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIVA (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants. 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare. 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and riot-control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 In my remarks to the House this afternoon in this cognate debate on  2  Bills I shall address myself mainly to the Australian 
Capital Territory Supreme Court Bill (No. 2). The work load of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory has increased proportionately, or perhaps more than proportionately, with the rapid increase in the population that the court is established to serve, as also with the increase in the use made of the Australian Capital Territory as a place of resort for commercial and other purposes. May I instance one example: The court has the potential to become a convenient forum for the trial of defamation actions that an intending plaintiff may wish to bring against publishers whose journals or other publications have a national circulation, including a circulation in the Australian Capital Territory. It would, generally speaking, be highly inconvenient and productive of unnecessary legal expense for an action to be brought against a prospective defendant in each State or Territory in which the publication may have occurred. But if publication has taken place in this Territory, there is a very reasonable prospect that a single action for defamation may be commenced in the supreme court here. The result is likely to be advantageous to both parties. 
One of the plaguing aspects of modern defamation practice is the often inordinate length of trials that take place before a jury. In this Territory trial of civil actions is, in general, except in special circumstances, by a judge alone. In a field as complicated as defamation, the absence of a jury tends to reduce trial time and certainly to reduce confusion. I mention the element of confusion, because in the present and inevitably complicated state of the law the task of summing up to a jury the complex issues that arise in many defamation actions is nothing if not daunting for the judge. However high the degree of judicial expertise and competence, the risk of error is sometimes considerable. 
I think the Government deserves to be congratulated upon its decision to increase the full time strength of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. It is a court serviced not only by judges who are commissioned to serve exclusively in that jurisdiction. As my friend the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  pointed out, there are as well additional judges - members of the bench of the Commonwealth Industrial Court - who render and have rendered in the past useful service in a part time capacity in this jurisdiction. I have no doubt that there will be a continuing need for the availability of their services. 
I am disappointed in one respect about this Bill. When I say I am disappointed, I do not mean that I am critical of the Government. I am disappointed because the Bill makes no provision for the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory to sit in banc so as to be able to hear appeals from its own judges when they are sitting at first instance. The effect of the new section 8ab of the principal Act proposed to be inserted by clause 9 of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Bill (No. 2) is not to create an internal appellate structure. As I read clause 9, the jurisdiction that may be exercised by 3 judges rather than by one as hitherto is the original jurisdiction of the court and, additionally, the appellate jurisdiction in relation to decisions of the Court of Petty Sessions of the Australian Capital Territory. One need not search far for a reason for the Government's omission in this Bill to provide for an internal appeal within the court - an appeal against decisions of judges of the court exercising original jurisdiction. I feel certain the reason is that the Government has not yet made up its mind about the future, or as I would hope, the lack of future, of the proposal for the establishment of a Commonwealth superior court. The Government, I can well understand, has had good reason for not being able to bring itself to the point of decision. I speak with all sympathy for the Government and for my successors in office. 
It may be said that in a multitude of counsellors there is much wisdom but, of course, in a multitude of counsellors there is also an inevitable drawing out of the decision making process. I feel certain that the Government will recognise the need to bring itself soon and quite urgently to the point of decision on the future of the Commonwealth superior court proposal. The delay that has already occurred, while in no sense the fault of the Government in the events that have occurred, is bound to be productive, as I think it has already been productive, of inconvenience. 
It will be remembered that the Commonwealth Superior Court Bill which was presented and given a second reading by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  when he was Attorney-General in 1968, but removed from the notice paper in consequence of the dissolution of the last House of Representatives, provided that the proposed new court should, amongst other things, exercise an appellate jurisdiction in connection with decisions of Territory supreme courts. Such a provision was in itself quite unexceptionable. That sort of appellate function would probably, however, be the only function of the proposed court that would not be beset with risks of technical difficulties of a jurisdictional character. If the Commonwealth superior court is not to proceed to establishment - I am firmly convinced for my part that it ought not to proceed - the proper alternative is to invest Territory courts, that is to say the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory and the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, with an internal appellate jurisdiction. It would be desirable to do so in the interests of reducing the already heavy appellate work load of the High Court. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory made some reference to that in perhaps rather different language. He referred to the difficulty of getting  10  the High Court. There is also the question of the work load, the very greatly added work load imposed upon the High Court by the necessity of having to hear appeals from Territory supreme courts. 
I see no difficulty in providing an  internal  appeal for each of the Territory courts that are the subject of the Bills being debated. The Supreme Court of the Territory of Papua New Guinea already has such a procedure and it is working well. In the case of each of the courts with which these Bills are concerned, there is a sufficiency of additional judges to  c,7sur  that for the purposes of hearing internal appeals a bench of 3 can always be provided because the fact is that the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory has, as additional judges, judges of the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
I want to explain briefly why I am opposed, and shall remain opposed, to the Commonwealth superior court concept. 
First, 1 think we can learn from the experience of others. In the United States the division of the judicial system into 2 parallel tiers of courts, Federal and State, has served no great or good purpose. Indeed, the division has tended to make muddy the waters of the stream of jurisprudence and to strew the stream with hidden obstacles upon which the unfortunate litigant may well founder. The disadvantages of establishing such a division, that is into Federal and State tiers, are numerous and serious. First, there will often be a lurking question as to the limits of Federal and State jurisdiction. These questions may be profitable and fascinating for lawyers but they will be expensive and frustrating for litigants. There will be questions as to the jurisdiction of the Federal court to entertain the whole subject matter in suit or sought to be put in suit by the parties. The parties may be unable to obtain the whole of the appropriate relief in one court. A plaintiff may not be able to join in the one action brought in the Federal court all the parties against whom he may seek relief. 
There will be other difficult questions, but time does not suffice to expose them all here. But the questions would be of such a nature and likely to recur with such melancholy frequency as to increase beyond suitable bounds the work load of the High Court in its constitutional supervisory role in relation to officers of the Commonwealth. The judges of the superior court would be officers of the Commonwealth within the meaning of section 75 placitum V of the Constitution and therefore would be subject to review by the High Court in their decision by means of the prerogative writs of mandamus and prohibition. We should remember the profoundly wise words, in considering the justifiability in the present circumstances of the Commonwealth superior court proposal, of one of Australia's most distinguished jurists.  Sir Owen  Dixon, who in a paper published as long ago as 1935 said something that is as true today as it was when he said it. What he said was that the division of courts into State and Federal cannot be regarded as sound either from the viewpoint of juristic principle or from that of the practical and efficient administration of justice. 
There is, I believe, a convenient and sound alternative to the establishment of a Commonwealth superior court. Our founding fathers displayed great wisdom and foresignt when they invented what has been called the autochthonous expedient, that is the investing of State courts with Federal jurisdiction. In the result, those courts may exercise Federal jurisdiction in most of the matters in which the High Court has original jurisdiction. If our aim be to reduce the increasing work load of the High Court, it can be achieved by investing State supreme courts and. I would add, Territory supreme courts with more Federal jurisdiction. The original jurisdiction of the High Court under the various Federal taxation Acts ought to be abolished. Appeals from the decisions of the Commissioner of Taxation or a Board of Review should be confined in the first instance to the supreme court of a State or Territory. The same sort of approach should be adopted in relation to industrial property matters. In other words, the position of the High Court exercising original jurisdiction as the appeals tribunal in copyright and patent matters ought to be eliminated and that jurisdiction ought to be confined to State supreme courts and Territory supreme courts where necessary. 
As it will inevitably become increasingly important in the national interest for this Parliament by its legislation to seek out the limits, and make full use, of Commonwealth power under the Constitution, we must also remember at the same time that we shall also serve the national interest by making full use for Federal purposes of existing judicial organs in the States and Territories. The States would not thank us for interposing a Commonwealth superior court in some respects on the same level as, but in other respects seemingly between, the State supreme courts and the High Court. I have reason to believe that suitable arrangements may without any difficulty of principle be made between the Commonwealth and the States for an appropriate financial subvention to the States to cover the extra cost to the States of having their courts exercise an enlarged Federal jurisdiction. 1 am hopeful in that respect. I also hope, I think not without foundation, that appropriate arrangements might even be made between the Commonwealth and the States as to the selection of judges with appropriate special qualifications to sit in the enlarged Federal jurisdiction, for instance the taxation field or industrial property field. 
I welcome these Bills. The appointment of an additional resident or permanent full time judge in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court is amply justified by the existing work load. I would hope that the day will soon come when we will hear the Government decision concerning the future of the Commonwealth's superior court proposal. I have indicated as frankly as I can, and I hope in as forthright a manner as I ought to indicate, my views as to the desirability, or rather lack of desirability, of proceeding with the Commonwealth superior court proposal. I propose to move in the Committee stage some amendments to clause 13 of the Bill. I do not propose to refer to the nature of those amendments now. But I would like to express my gratitude to the AttorneyGeneral for having considered the proposal that I put to him concerning these suggested amendments. I am grateful for his co-operation and I am grateful to the Government for its acceptance of my suggested amendments and I hope that those amendments will in due course be acceptable to the Committee. 
 I move: 
In proposed new section 39 (2.), before 'matter', insert 'civil'. 
The effect of the amendment I have moved would be to change the legal situation as it appears from the reading of the Bill in its present form, namely, that affidavit evidence might conceivably be given in a criminal proceeding without the accused having the right to insist upon the attendance of the deponent for cross-examination. That is the position under clause 13 as it is presently drawn in the Bill. The effect of the amendment may be simply described in this way: Affidavit evidence may not be given at all in criminal proceedings. It is important that in criminal proceedings we adhere steadfastly to what the lawyers call the 'best evidence rule'. Of course, if a matter is not seriously in dispute in a criminal trial the accused person, if properly advised, will often make a formal admission; that is very proper in many instances. But while the provision made in clause 13 for the adducing of affidavit evidence in civil proceedings, on conditions to be set by the judge before whom the application comes, is perfectly justified and while in civil proceedings it may be proper in many cases, though probably in only a very few cases, for the judge to dispense with the attendance of the deponent for cross-examination, we should not countenance the admission of affidavit evidence at all in criminal proceedings. In criminal proceedings we should adhere to the principle that the evidence should he given orally by the witness in open court. I am glad to be able to say that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  - I may have mentioned this in my second reading speech - readily agrees with the amendment. As I understand it, the Government also agrees with it. There is an amendment to clause 6 of the Northern Territory Supreme Court Bill, which I shall formally move later, which has precisely the same effect as my amendment to clause 13 of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Bill (No. 2). 
I move: 
In proposed section (2.), before 'matter', insert civil'. 
I shall not expatiate on the reasons for the amendment as I have already endeavoured to give them. I understand that this amendment likewise is acceptable to the Government, for which I am grateful. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
When may a decision be expected on the question whether the death penalty should be abolished for offences against Commonwealth law, other than the offence of treason. 
I rise to oppose the amendment. I am concerned that the Australian Labor Party should really lend its name to an  amendment of this nature. I believe it to be a thoroughly ill considered amendment. I say that with due respect to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who proposed it. There have been sections in Acts of Parliament since the beginning of this century and probably before, which have declared that if a person is found in possession of goods that are reasonably suspected of being stolen or unlawfully obtained he shall be guilty of an offence punishable by law. I have never known of any Labor government in any State or in the Commonwealth sphere asking for those provisions to be repealed. When one comes to consider it, the clause which the Australian Labor Party, through its spokesman, proposes to omit from this very important piece of legislation is in the same vein as the type of section to which I have referred. But the clause which the Labor Party seeks to omit from this legislation is a clause which, if passed by the Parliament, would operate in an enormously significant field - significant because this legislation is fraught with grave consequences for good in protecting the Australian community, particularly young people, against the abuses that can arise from narcotics. 
An examination of the clause that the Opposition wants taken out of this Bill shows that it is a completely reasonable provision. If this clause stands the Crown in a prosecution will need to prove that narcotic substances found in the possession of a suspected person are reasonably suspected of having been imported into Australia in contravention of the Act. I emphasise the word 'reasonably'. The use of that word is to import a completely objective as opposed to subjective standard. It is not the standard of a policeman who thinks he might be reasonable; it is the standard of the tribunal. The tribunal has to be satisfied in its own mind, whether it be judge or jury, that the suspicion is reasonable, fs there anything wrong with that when one is dealing not with the relatively unimportant subject of goods suspected of having been stolen but with some of the most dangerous substances known to mankind? I think the Opposition would do very well to reconsider its position and, hopefully, withdraw the amendment. It would redound to its credit if it did. 
I come now to my next step. The Crown having had to discharge the onus of showing that there is an objectively reasonable suspicion that these drugs have been imported into Australia could have its case destroyed by the accused, who happens to be in the happy position of knowing himself all the relevant facts - from the very nature of the offence he would know all the relevant facts - proving that he had reasonable excuse for the possession of these narcotics. 
So be it. But the whole point which apparently has been missed by the honourable member for Kingston is that the confusion between the Commonwealth and State jurisdiction in this field is frustrating the achievement of reasonable social objectives. Do we want to have this perpetual state of confusion between the Commonwealth and State jurisdictions? I should think that members of the Australian Labor Party, who are probably even more centralist than I  -  and I admit to being a pretty strong centralist myself - would wish to see the federal jurisdiction paramount, as I. do, in this field. 
We can talk about the Single Convention. We are concerned to stop the abuses and evils that derive from the unlawful possession of drugs that are reasonably suspected of having been imported. 
 I know that my honourable friend may not like what J am saying but I will go on saying it. I. am rather convinced that what I am saying is right. Are not the law enforcement authorities entitled to be fed up with the situation that arises when they come into possession of a suspected person whom they interrogate and then find in his possession a package containing a narcotic substance and on the outside of the package the words Manufactured in the People's Republic of China' or 'Manufactured in China'? 
So be it, or in Pakistan. I am not worried about where it is manufactured, only that there are cases where a label shows that it was manufactured in Pakistan or in Thailand. I do not care where it is. I am not selecting any example for the sake of prejudice, as I think might have been implied by the interjection. This is the sort of case with which this legislation is designed to cope. Can anyone in this Committee - presumably we are all reasonable - suggest that if a package bearing that label is found in somebody's possession there is not ground for a reasonable suspicion that that article has been imported? 
This is exactly what we are trying to do. At least the honourable member has woken up. I congratulate the honourable member for Capricornia. He has had a sudden flash of genius. It is this sort of thing that the legislation is designed to cope with. The honourable member for Capricornia, who is trying to interject again, may want people to go around smoking pot - I do not know. He sounds like such a person. As the law presently stands there must be direct and conclusive evidence of importation, and the fact that an article is labelled 'Made in China', 'Made in Thailand', 'Made in India', 'Made in Pakistan' or 'Made in Erehwon' is not evidence of importation. If the Labor Party wants to oppose this amendment it is not doing itself any credit. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In view of the indication contained in his answer a few minutes ago to the Leader of the Opposition that the staff resources of the Taxation Office are not sufficient to cope with the great demands upon them to investigate and endeavour to plug up loopholes in relation to tax avoidance, will the Treasurer reconsider a suggestion I made not very long ago to the effect that the time might be appropriate to appoint another specialist committee like the Ligertwood Committee, which sat in 1960 and 1961, to supplement the activities of the Taxation Office in relation to tax avoidance? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he has shown to you,  Mr Speaker,  the letter to the managing director of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd which was the subject of so much discussion yesterday afternoon. 

 - Mr Speaker, this is a debate about the economy. This is an election year. The conjunction of those 2 events unfortunately tends to mean that the debate will not be conducted - as perhaps it has not been conducted - with that degree of objectivity that the circumstances in which we presently find ourselves demand. Speaking, as I do, with some of the objectivity that my pending detachment from politics may hopefully bring, I should like to offer some thoughts which may not be entirely orthodox, but at the same time I hope will not be too entirely heterodox for my Party to stomach. There is in the community, I believe, at the present time a strong sentiment, to which I for my part subscribe with firm conviction, that it just is not correct to place all or nearly all of the blame for cost-push inflation on the activities of the trade union movement under the leadership of  Mr Hawke.  I just cannot go along with this. I may be wrong. I will probably be regarded as wrong by many who sit on these benches with me, but if I am wrong I am wrong wilh firm conviction. 1 do not think that an increasingly sophisticated intelligent electorate should be treated in this day and age in rather the same way as young children are reputed to have been treated by their nannies in England during the Napoleonic Wars. Their nannies are said, by history, to have told children, when they were fractious: If you do not watch out that terrible man Boney will come and eat you up'. That approach to the trade union movement is, I believe, over-simplistic, and I believe that we on this side of politics have got to avoid it. I do not adhere for one moment to any proposition that a degree of militancy in the trade union movement is not in some measure responsible for the cost-push inflation that we have today. But what I do say is that if we are to approach our present problems with any semblance of balance, we ought to realise that there arc faults on both sides of the industrial fence. To me it is a terrible thing that one has to talk of an industrial fence, but the plain fact is that if you are going to adopt some sort of a simile you have to use some sort of expression. You have to act on the basis that there is a division, unfortunately. Sometimes it seems to be an irreconcilable division between employers on the one hand and labour on the other. One wishes that the division could be broken down, reduced, but there it is. 
But if one is to be objejctive one must realise that there are elements in the economy on what I choose to describe for present purposes as the other side of the industrial fence - that is the employers' side - that tend in a very real degree towards the acceleration of this vicious evil, cost-push inflation. There is excess tariff protection, with all the scope that gives to some people to push up costs under the umbrella of that excessive protection. There is the question of restrictive trade practices on the horizontal level. The Government - and it deserves to be congratulated for having done this - moved as quickly as circumstances permitted to control resale price maintenance, to ban it outright subject to justification, the onus being upon the person seeking justification of the practice to prove it. Yet we still are faced with this problem of devising suitable legislation to control restrictive trade practices on the horizontal level, and let it be remembered, let it never be forgotten, that restrictive trade practices in this country on the horizontal level - that is between groups of people in the same industry - are a much more pervasive force for inflation than is the practice of resale price maintenance. 
I regret to say but am bound to say that it is a matter for disappointment that it has taken so long - I hope it will not be much longer; how much longer, oh Lord, how much longer, one might ask - to introduce tough, effective trade practices legislation to deal with the problem of these generally pernicious horizontal restrictive trade practices. It will do no good to any political party in the context of present day politics for the Government to criticise the Opposition because the Opposition stands for a strong trade union movement; so should any good Liberal government, and so does the present Government. It is of no use for the Government to say that it is all the trade unions' fault or for the Opposition to say that it is all the employers' fault. Let us realise, even though this be an election year - and I suppose that judgment tends to be clouded in an election year - that the fault lies on both sides. Let us realise, because I am sure this is a great truth, that in this country there is a large reservoir of intellectual talent on both sides of politics, inside and outside the trade union movement and inside and outside industry, that would -wish to grapple with these basic problems. But the Government must give a lead. I believe that the Government will give a lead, but I think that it has to give a lead very quickly. 
I hope that I am not to be accused, as a result of what I say tonight, of rocking the political boat or of rocking my Party's boat. That is the last thing I want to do. I disclaim any intention of doing so. But if I disclaim any intention, as I sincerely do, of rocking the political boat, I do not want it to be assumed that I regard myself as having no option but to lie inertly in the scuppers while the ship of state ploughs through rather heavy seas. I think that it is time for a little frank talking on some of the problems that we face. I find it not altogether easy - let me put it in those mild terms - to see how the Government can persuade the electorate that we are doing ail we ought to do and must do to stem the rising tide of cost-push inflation until such time as we have grappled with the task - enough time has gone by for us to have done this - of controlling effectively horizontal restrictive trade practices. I talk in shorthand because time is short. 1 find it difficult to see how it is altogether easy for the Government to persuade the electorate that we are doing all we can to control unilaterally decided price increases by corporations enjoying a near monopoly position when all we seem to be able to do - and it is not very effective - is to issue pious pleas or anxious exhortations when a price rise is pending. Surely it is time for honourable members on this side of the House to take stock of the position and to ask themselves why in this day and age we should be - 1 do not think we should be - or they should be opposed to the idea of a prices justification tribunal. 
You may join us one day. The honourable member for Prospect is sitting  a  little out of his place, but J am grateful for bis interjection. Is there anything obnoxious to Liberal philosophy - I do not think there is - in the concept of a prices justification tribunal? I am referring not to price fixing, which is a very different matter, but to a prices justification tribunal which would vet price increases in relation to basic commodities  by  corporations that enjoy a monopoly or near monopoly position. I believe that the Australian electorate will not be altogether convinced of the Government's intentions until such time as the Government displays  a  readiness and willingness to investigate and to study closely ways and means of introducing some system of prices justification for corporations in this position. 
I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that as a result of the new found extent of the Commonwealth corporations power the Commonwealth Government, if it had the will, could find the way to introduce legislation to produce such a result. One always speaks tentatively in the field of constitutional law, knowing that decisions in the High Court go sometimes one way or another way on a very fine balance of numbers. However, I still think it is worth acting on the basis that there is power  to  introduce in relation to trading and financial corporations - those corporations that are mentioned in the corporations power - a system of prices justification. I would think that if the Government announced that it was prepared to investigate the feasibility of doing this it could only gain marks, and to gain marks at present would be very, very advantageous, speaking in the most subjective terms. Until we on both sides of politics can get out of this awful rut of standing in our ranks, sometimes* serried and sometimes solid, slanging each other and saying that one side or the other is entirely to blame, depending on the viewpoint, the way to solving the problems of this economy will be very long and rocky. It is about time that we all did something about it on a non-partisan basis. 
The House will have noted with interest the coyness of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in failing to rise to defend himself. The office of Leader of the Opposition is a high office and an honourable office. The holder of it, given ordinary circumstances, deserves respect. I have decided to take part in this debate to the extent of seconding the motion for reasons that stem. I can assure the House, from the mind and not from the heart because I have always enjoyed an agreeable personal relationship with my honourable friend the Leader of the Oppositon. It stems from a number of factors. We went to the same law school. We belong to the same Bar. I have enjoyed a friendship with him. Therefore 1 assure the House that in deciding to take part in this debate as seconder of this motion I have been impelled to do so by what I regard as important questions of principle that should engage the attention of the House and that should engage the attention of the country. 
The public advocacy by anyone in a position of authority and of responsibility such as the Leader of the Opposition holds, of disobedience to a valid law passed by the Commonwealth Parliament necessarily tends to undermine values that are basic to our way of life and that axe unquestionably accepted by the vast majority of citizens in the Australian community. Therefore when one finds a gentleman in the position of the Leader of the Opposition engaging in conduct that can be fairly described as the public advocacy of disobedience to a valid law of the Parliament, that is a matter that requires serious and anxious consideration not only by the Parliament but by anyone with a sense of propiety in public affairs. Let us look at the position. The Leader of the Opposition himself said in defending himself against an attack on a previous occasion in this House on 25th Sepember  1970  words that I shall take the opportunity of quoting from Hansard. He said: 
The way to change an unjust and unconscionable law in this country is to change the Government. 
That is an unexceptionable statement with which no one in this House on either side would disagree. But essentially implicit in that statement is an important underlying principle without which the honourable gentleman's statement would be nothing but empty and meaningless words. That implicit principle is that until a law that is regarded by someone or by a group in the community as unjust or unconscionable is changed by due parliamentary processes, it ought to be obeyed. It is a matter of considerable disappointment to me that the Leader of the Opposition has recently, and not for the first time, departed from this high principle; a principle, as I said, that is implicit in the very words that he used in the House in September  1970. 
As my friend, the honourable member for Diamond Valley pointed out, the Leader of the Opposition recently stated that draft dodging is not a crime. I regret to say that these words were spoken in a context that gave them a meaning that was not open to doubt. The Leader of the Opposition is known widely for his skill in the use of words. It is a skill that I admire. He is noted for the felicity of his expression. Therefore we may take it - I certainly do - that the clear meaning that those words would convey to any ordinary reader or hearer was the meaning that the honourable gentleman actually intended to convey. What the Leader of the Opposition intended to convey, therefore, was that the deliberate evasion of obligations imposed under the National Service Act is not a matter for criminal punishment. But the National Service Act said otherwise, and let me remind the House that the High Court of Australia, in a unanimous decision, said that the Act is a valid law of the Commonwealth Parliament. Let us remember that the validity of the Act was tested in our supreme constitutional tribunal and it was upheld. I am saying nothing about the issues of policy that have been debated widely in this country over a period of years. Those who maintain that the policy and provisions of the Act are unjust or pernicious are fully entitled to their view and to maintain and to press the view to the utmost within the limits of proper legal processes and of proper parliamentary debate and political advocacy. The idea that a gentleman who occupies the high office of Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition should say that a law not only passed by the Parliament but also declared valid by the High Court is a law that need not be obeyed - that is what saying that it is not a criminal matter means - is a matter for extreme regret. It is not a matter to be treated merely as the plaything of party politics. 
This motion was moved today by my friend, the honourable member for Diamond Valley who, I am sure, was motivated by a deep sense of responsibility and concern for parliamentary value. For my part, I would not have agreed to take part in this debate were I convinced that this is merely a political game. It is not a political game. I have no reason to play a political game because, as every honourable member knows, my days in this House by my own choice, are numbered and therefore I speak to this motion out of a sense of a deep concern for due parliamentary processes. The predicament that has led the Leader of the Opposition to make this utterance, and unfortunately it is not the first such utterance that he has made, hardly needs to be recounted because the events are very recent. Indeed, the events are current. The Australian Labor Party has chosen as its candidate for the electorate of Hotham, a division presently represented in this House by my honourable friend, the Minister for Customs and 
Excise  (Mr Chipp),  a man who publicly has declared himself to be presently a fugitive from legal process for an alleged failure-1 emphasise the word 'alleged' - to obey a call-up notice under the National Service Act, He also has been convicted of 2 offences against that Act for each of which he has served a gaol sentence. In saying that, I am relying on what the gentleman concerned,  Mr Johnston,  has himself said on the public media. 1 say nothing as to whether or not this gentleman is guilty of the charge in connection with which he presently is being sought by the police. That is a matter for a court to determine in due time. 
The fact is that the Leader of the Opposition has what fairly may be described as a monkey on his back, not only put there but also sustained, supported and encouraged by the controllers of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, which has for a long time been the Leader of the Opposition's bete noire. We all recall that there was a day when the Leader of the Opposition was prepared to stand up to the Victorian controllers of the Australian Labor Party and I, for one, had an unfeigned admiration for the way in which he did it because it took courage and he manifested courage in doing it. Most of us remember the brave words - I do not use the word 'brave' in any sense of sarcasm because they were brave words - the Leader of the Opposition delivered to the Victorian Branch of his  Party  when he addressed its annual conference in 1967. I am bound to ask the House to ponder the questions: Why, on this occasion, has his courage failed him? Why has he not denounced the candidature of  Mr Johnston?  Why has he not denounced the methods by which  Mr Johnston  is promoting his candidature? I ask this as a serious question: Why has the Leader of the Opposition sought to excuse or explain  Mr Johnston's  alleged conduct - I emphasise the word 'alleged' - by saying, in effect, that if he is guilty of what is alleged against him, and that remains undetermined, that is not a matter of crime; that is not an offence against the law? The Leader of the Opposition knows - he must know in his heart - as a distinguished lawyer that to make that sort of utterance is destructive of a very basic principle upon which our parliamentary democracy depends and, therefore, it is a matter for the public at large to judge whether this is not a matter that ought to be taken into account when a judgment is being made on the future government of this country. 
Every instinct that my honourable and learned friend, the Leader of the Opposition, possesses by his background, his family tradition and his training should have predisposed him not to take the attitude he has taken towards the obligations imposed by the National Service Act. I had thought when the furore erupted in September 1970 over the Press statement that the Leader of the Opposition made in response to queries that were put to him about something he had said in Caucus on the same day, that what he said - although it was calculated and stated accurately at the time - as a repetition of what he had said in Caucus, was a mistake from which he could and would make a recovery. I have no need to remind the House of what he said at that Press conference because my friend the honourable member for Diamond Valley, already has told the House by quoting from the record what was said. 
I had hoped that it was a mistake from which a recovery would be made and a mistake that would not be repeated. I hoped that, because at bottom every one of us who has the privilege of sitting in this House must have a concern for the parliamentary process that transcends the squabbles of party politics and if we have a concern for parliamentary democracy and for the preservation of the rule of law, no-one in this House, party political considerations altogether apart, would want to see the Leader of the Opposition or any significant member of this Parliament - indeed, any member of this Parliament, significant or otherwise - condoning an attitude towards a valid law of this Parliament that is inimical to the rule of law. Such a condonation and such an encouragement of disobedience - those 2 things are implicit in the words of the Leader of the Opposition - are calculated only to undermine our very basic values as supporters of a parliamentary democracy. I have endeavoured in the time available to me to explain to the House why I take an altogether not too easy decision to support this motion. 
I pass over the last remarks of my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  and I compliment him on a perfect reading of a speech that he made on a previous occasion. 
I see. It was a perfect reading of a speech not prepared for this occasion. The raising of this matter of public importance is a tactical exercise by 2 of the young lions of the Australian Labor Party who are trying to flex their presently puny political muscles by bringing on what they are pleased to describe as a matter of public importance. The origin of this little exercise deserves to be drawn to the notice of the House, and may I briefly refer to it. This exercise by the. honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  - the 2 young lions - started with 2 grossly intemperate Press statements issued by some curious coincidence on successive days. I should imagine, from the wording of the Press statements, that each of the honourable members, realising his complete inadequacy to draft a Press statement for himself, employed the same incompetent script writer because the phraseology in each Press statement bears a haunting resemblance to the other. 
What are we talking about, or what are the honourable member for Kingston and the honourable member for Bendigo talking about? Of course, we have not heard the honourable member for Bendigo take part in the debate. He will follow me. I can only imagine that his decision to participate in this debate today stems from a desperate attempt to gather together the tattered remnants of a parliamentary reputation that he lost virtually beyond retrieval last week when, in his contribution - if one could call it such - to the censure debate concerning the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  he made one of the most pitiful and pitifully inadequate speeches that it has been my lot to sit through in 9 years in this House. We are talking about an attack by these 2 young lions, who are trying to flex their rather short claws, on the Government's employment training scheme. So far honourable members opposite, have condescended to speak in this debate about only 2 training schemes: The rural reconstruction training scheme, to which the honourable member for Kingston - this is pardonable because he is a city member - made some passing reference, and the reconstruction training scheme for persons displaced by technological change to which he devoted passingly a little more attention. 
Both the honourable members, with a fine unconcern for the facts - the facts by which they do not want to be confused - that is obvious - omitted to make any reference to the full range of employment training schemes that the Government has undertaken in the last year or so. The first was the widow pensioners training scheme run by the Department of Social Services the second was the national service vocational training scheme; the third was the employment training scheme for women restricted from employment by domestic responsibilities; the fourth was the employment training scheme for Aborigines; the fifth - this is one that was mentioned - was the employment training scheme, for persons displaced by technological change; and the sixth was the rural reconstruction employment training scheme. Not even I, and I am sure in their charity no other members of this House, would impute to either of the honourable members who have raised this matter of public importance - the honourable member for Bendigo and the honourable member for Kingston - such monumental incompetence as to assume against them that they are ignorant of the. other 4 training schemes which seem to have engaged no part of their attention. 
Perhaps I do them too much honour, but I will give them credit for being aware of the existence of these 4 other training schemes. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  who is interjecting, does not like what I am saying. He does not like what I am saying because it happens to be hurting. For the honourable member for Sturt to accuse someone of not saying anything is the height of good humour. He has spent  2i  years in this place saying nothing at all. All he has done is to interject from the sidelines like a - I was going to say 'yah0'. but that would be unparliamentary. What I want to examine is why the honourable members who are leading this rather curious and puny attack on the Government have made no reference to the 4 other training schemes of which they must be taken to be aware. The reason, of course, is that, knowing of the existence and the operation of these training schemes, they can find no ground whatsoever on which to criticise them. Therefore they have concentrated on making a meretricious attack, which can be proved and has been proved by my friend the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  to be quite wrong. 
Let us look at the Government's record in relation to the widow pensioners training scheme. It was started in September 1968. Since then, as a result of the scheme, 1,700 widow pensioners have been enabled to enter gainful employment. At this time 1,500 widows are receiving training under the scheme. The 4 schemes which I just mentioned - the widow pensioners training scheme, the national service vocational training scheme, the employment training scheme for women restricted from employment by domestic responsibilities and the employment training scheme for Aborigines - stand in this way at the present time: They have been available for over 12 months and each has been effective in assisting a significant number of people. Over 17,547 people have been offered assistance under these schemes since they began. Those schemes can hardly be described as failures. As I understand it, neither my friend the honourable member for Kingston nor the honourable member for Bendigo would go so far as or would have the extreme hardihood to describe them as failures. What does this discussion come down to? 
The honourable member for Kingston has seen fit to occupy - 'waste' may be a better word - the time of the House by seeking to criticise a scheme, namely, a scheme for persons displaced by technological change. The precise details of that scheme were endorsed and approved by the National Labour Advisory Committee and were therefore endorsed and approved by a very distinguished member of his own Party -  Mr Harold  Souter, the Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I almost forbear from saying it, but honourable members opposite are wont to suggest that from time to time there might be a little dissention in the ranks of the Government. But here again we see a sort of spastic mental disarticulation inside the Labor Party. A scheme which received the approval in all its fine details of a most senior member of the ACTU - indeed, its Secretary - is criticised today by the honourable member for Kingston on grounds that bear no relation to the evident objects and purposes of the scheme. 
There is no single problem of redundancy. The scheme that was announced last year by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  for the assistance of persons displaced by technological change was widely publicised - it could not have been given wider publicity - so as to attract the notice of people who might want to avail themselves of it. As my friend the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service has said - it is a very significant truth - the fact that this scheme has not been so much availed of as the honourable member for Kingston quite illogically suggested it should have been, is a tribute to the fact that the problem of redundancy due (o technological change in this community is, happily, not as great as it was feared it might be. It should be borne in mind that although only $50,000 has been appropriated so far to this scheme, as the honourable member for Kingston said, it is a precautionary scheme, as the Minister said when introducing it and announcing its details. It is very proper that there should be a precautionary scheme. It is a matter of extreme good fortune and it is a matter of congratulation to the employers in the community that the need for it has not been as great as was feared. 
My question which is addressed to the Prime Minister refers to the subject matter of a question asked earlier this morning by the honourable member for Perth. I preface this question by saying that I do not endorse the truth of the allegations which were made about  Senator Sim.  I do not know what is the position except insofar as the House has been informed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Whatever be the truth of these allegations, will the right honourable gentleman assure the House that neither he nor any member who sits behind him on the Government benches would ever wish it to be thought that he or any of them would endorse, or would wish to be associated with, an expression of anti-Semitic sentiment or any sentiment based on religious or racial grounds made by any member of the Government parties, if it were made? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence and it is supplementary to that which was asked recently by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Does the Minister agree that, unless a decision is made to abolish the death penalty for military offences in respect of which it is presently prescribed under Commonwealth law, the Government, if and when it introduces the proposed uniform military code for the Services, will be under the uncomfortable necessity of having to re-enact the death penalty for those offences in substantive form as a Bill of this Parliament? I ask the honourable gentleman whether he will bear in mind, when making the recommendations to the Government on this question, that possibly a majority of people in this House would not view such legislation with unfeigned joy. 
I have listened with great enthusiasm and interest to the debate that has taken place on this question of what is the public interest and to whom considerations of the public interest ought to be confided. Listening to the debate tonight I am reminded of some words rather wisely spoken by a judge of the 19th century - I think it was  Mr Justice  Byles - who said: 
Public policy - which is the same as public interest - is a very unruly horse. 
If there were an illustration- 
My thinking has advanced since then, yours has remained in the 15th century. If ever there was an illustration of the truth of the proposition spoken in the 19th century by  Mr Justice  Byles it has been proved in this House tonight because we have heard members on the other side of the House, and I fully respect their views, speaking about the public interest. 1 think of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Les Johnson)  in this context. He said that the public interest is the interest of the people in his electorate, not the interest of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd or of some newspaper proprietor or of this person or that person. Other people might say that the public interest consists of the views of the people in the electorate of Berowra. I do not know. I have a possibly unhealthy, rather odd view that the public interest consists of something much more elusive than that which has sought to be denned tonight by the honourable member for Burke. The public interest in truth is something that basically is undefinable, even by my honourable friend from Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  Sometimes the definition of what is in the public interest has to be somewhat arbitrary. Sometimes this Parliament might be thought by a lot of people to be rather arbitrary in its definition, by majority view, of what is in the public interest. What I am trying to say is that the honourable member for Burke cannot have it all his own way. I do not have it all my own way because my views as to what the public interest might demand might appeal to me greatly but they might be totally wrong. They probably are wrong as views of other honourable members are wrong from time to time. 
Unfortunately there are times when the decision as to what constitutes the public interest has to be committed to a body outside this Parliament, to a judicial body or to a conciliation commissioner - to someone who, whatever his human frailty, has cast upon him the responsibility of making a decision. I cannot see how, if human affairs are to be ordered in a responsible way, we can escape from that position. I think that we possibly do ourselves a disservice in talking too much, too widely, and too loosely about the public interest which must always remain one of the most elusive things that politicians, judges or people can ever talk about. 
I shall be very brief in my remarks this evening because there are matters of greater substance than the present motion to be debated. I want to explain my position as clearly as it can be explained. I shall not attempt to emulate the coruscating wit of the honourable and learned member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  but I want to say just this: One melancholy thought that obtrudes in my mind when I go back over 2 years - and we have lived with this problem of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill for just over 2 years - is that if it had not been made, as much as it has been made, the plaything of party politics, I rather suspect that bv now we might well have had a decision from the High Court of Australia on the great constitutional issues involved. I am not being over critical of the Opposition in saying that this Bill has been made the plaything nf party politics. 
I know that, but let me continue with my remarks. The game of party politics is part of the fabric of our parliamentary life, but let us face the fact that in May 1970 - 2 years ago yesterday, I think - the Opposition, acting in what it conceived to be its best interests, tried to capitalise on certain differences of viewpoint in the Government parties by moving a want of confidence motion. T remember sitting in this House for the length of a very long day wondering whether I would be in office at the end of it, or the day after, because, as the Duke of Wellington said after the battle of Waterloo it was 'a damn near run thing'. I remember that day very well. The Opposition thought then that it could gain some party advantage - there was nothing improper in this - in trying to drive a wedge between the Government parties. It failed. It just failed. 
Now tonight the Opposition is at the same ploy again. I do not blame it. It is the Opposition's sovereign right to play this game, and it is not an unworthy game to play. It is trying to drive a wedge between members on this side of the House. The Opposition thought it might have a chance of getting the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  under whom 1 had the privilege to serve, my honourable and learned friend representing the electorate of Moreton and me to cross the floor in order to bring on the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill for passage through all stages before the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill was passed. I for one do not subscribe to the view that the Territorial Sea Bill is a non-urgent matter. I think it is a matter of very great constitutional and national significance. I want to make perfectly clear, as is my right, that I do not agree with some of the views that have been expressed in this chamber tonight to the effect that it is not urgent. I would have thought that any Bill that was said 2 years ago by whomsoever, but by a member of the Government, to be a Bill that ought to be passed in Australia's national and international interests so that a definitive decision of the High Court could be obtained is not a Bill lacking in urgency 2 years after those remarks were made. But I pass that by. 1 have exercised such rights as 1 have as a member of my Party and as a member of the House to procure that some discussion takes place in this the national Parliament, on a matter that I do regard as a very important one. I think that at least something is achieved if there is some discussion, even if it is not a concluded and definitive discussion, on this matter before the negotiations that are now in train with the States are carried any further. 1 have taken the view that it is of great importance that this Parliament should be able to express some views in debate on this great national issue as to where the sovereignty should lie and as to whether there should be legislative provision for a decision before the matter goes out to be discussed in conferences between State Ministers and Commonwealth Ministers. So that much, I think, has been achieved. But I will not, as far as I can possibly avoid it and I have been able to avoid it on this occasion use my feet to cross from one side of this House to the other on a matter on which I may have strong views when 1 know, and know full well, that the Opposition, for motives that are not open to criticism, but motives which I well understand, is trying to use the forms of this House to promote the idea that there is a basic disunity in the Government ranks. 
The honourable gentlemen opposite know very well that at times members of a Party have to submerge their quite profound convictions on matters of personal conscience in order to support the Party to which they belong. 1 have to face the same problem myself on this side of the House. Sometimes the task of facing up to the problem I find not altogether palatable. But it seems to me that one ought to recall that politics consists very largely in the art of compromise and if one can achieve some degree of compromise, if one can achieve some degree of progress, even though it may be only a few inches or a few feet, one has done something at the end of the day. I am not on this contingency motion going to be used as the plaything of the Opposition to create the impression in the country at large that there is such disunity that a member in my position, who may have strong views of his own, will not submerge those views in the general party interest. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Whitlam's)  be agreed to. 
As to the substance of what my friend the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  said this afternoon I have  no  disagreement. After this Bill had dropped to the bottom of the notice paper with all the drifting aimlessness of an uncorked bottle thrown overboard from a ship into the sea it has undergone a sudden albeit temporary change of direction. It has rocketed to the top of the notice paper with such velocity as would inflict upon a deep-sea diver an acute attack of the bends. My view, for what it is worth, is that the health of this measure, which is an exercise in high national politics, will not suffer from its temporary change of place. I hope my prediction proves well-founded by events. It goes without saying that I support to the hilt the principles that this Bill embodies. I would like to record my express agreement with one of the last propositions that were put to the House by the honourable member for Brisbane. He said, as I understood him, that this Bill takes nothing from the States; it is not designed to take anything from the States. This Bill, if it is valid as an exercise of Commonwealth legislative power, takes nothing from the States that they or any one of them had beforehand. If it is invalid as an exercise of Commonwealth legislative power, ex hypothesi it takes nothing from the States. So I want to register my profound agreement with what the honourable member from Brisbane said in the concluding stages of his speech. 
The progress of this Bill has been frustrated, although it has always been an exercise, as I see it, in high national politics because of a good deal of misunderstanding born of, in some cases, prejudice; in some cases obscurantism; in other cases obduracy; and in other cases a sheer unwillingness to attend to the relevant facts and to attend to a matter of great national importance. The motives of the Commonwealth were grossly and grievously misrepresented when the Bill was introduced. I do not want to go over ground that is even now somewhat bloodsoaked, although the blood has dried, because no purpose would be served in doing so. But I remind the House that the Commonwealth from the outset said that if the Bill were passed and declared by the High Court to be valid the States would not be excluded. On the contrary, they would be included on very generous terms in the administration of any legislation that would be consequential upon this Bill - for instance, an Australia wide mining code. 
The Commonwealth from the outset indicated to the States that it would meet the full costs of any legal challenge in the High Court of Australia which is the supreme constitutional tribunal designed to elucidate great questions of law of such a kind as must inevitably arise in a federation for decision from time to time. You cannot have a federal policy without as a corollary of it the need to resolve great constitutional questions. The constitutional history of countries other than our own proves that as an elementary truth. This Bill is designed to resolve an unresolved question of enormous national significance. Which government, that of the Commonwealth or those of the States, has ultimate legal sovereignty with respect to Australian off-shore areas and the resources in them? If that is not a great national question and a question the resolution of which brooks no undue delay, then I have lost the meaning of words. 
I think there is a measure of urgency, and I say that with all respect to those who have expressed the contrary view. I cannot agree that this is not an urgent matter. I form that judgment bearing in mind that we are less than a year away from an international conference on the law of the sea to be held under the auspices of the United Nations at which issues left unresolved by the 1958 Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Contiguous Zone will fall for consideration and hopefully for resolution. One of the great questions that will arise for consideration at that conference concerns the definition of the breadth outward from base lines drawn pursuant to the 1958 convention of the territorial sea. I ask the House: Is that an unimportant question? Is that not a question which some governmental authority in this country should be able to grapple with, untrammelled by any doubts as to the identity of the government or governments entitled to define the Australian attitude? 
It has been suggested, in my view quite wrongly, that the presentation of this Bill 2 years ago in some way involved an infraction of the rules relating to conventional relationships between the Commonwealth and the States. In essence this approach has involved an assertion that the Commonwealth did not pay sufficient regard to a concept that in perhaps too many cases has become apotheosised, that is to say, nearly deified. The concept, as 1 understand it, is that if you are involved in the task of national government in a federal system you must avoid at all or nearly all costs doing anything that is likely to disturb or offend the sensibilities of other governments in the system. People are fully entitled to worship gods of their own choice, but as an article of political faith the concept to which I have referred can be at times a perfect recipe for inaction. I do not therefore worship at its alter. History teaches us that inaction, especially when it is a response to opposition based on obduracy, obscurantism or prejudice of some sort is no solvent of the problems arising in national government. 
In saying all that I do not want it to be thought that I deprecate or deny the need for Commonwealth-State co-operation in many fields. Indeed, in many fields such cooperation is not only desirable but necessary. In my short time on the front bench 
I did what I could to serve the cause of Commonwealth-State co-operation in some fields. I think there are today areas in which there could be more CommonwealthState co-operation, and I make a passing reference in that area to the question of taking the work load in matters of federal jurisdiction of the High Court of Australia. Is that work load to be lightened in the case of a very busy court by setting up some court like the Commonwealth Superior Court, or should we not look - and look a little more closely and with a little greater rapidity and more enthusiasm than has been evident - at the idea of vesting more federal jurisdiction in the great Supreme Courts of the States? Would that not be a useful exercise in CommonwealthState relationships? I know from my own discussions with people in the States that certain State politicians would welcome any decision at Federal governmental level that would be calculated to preserve the status of the great State Supreme Courts - something that would be done if we avoid the course of interposing a Federal court between the High Court and these State courts. That is only a matter of passing reference. 
There are cases in which there is no doubt as to the existence of concurrent legislative power with respect to a particular subject matter; that is to say, power resides concurrently in both the Commonwealth and the States. In those cases there is usually, perhaps almost invariably, a strong case for Commonwealth-State consultation and co-operation. In such cases, of course, the Commonwealth power will have ultimate effect in the case of an inconsistency because of section 109 of the Constitution. But in such cases the Commonwealth, despite the fact that its concurrent power may be made to cover the field, may not wish to do so for perfectly proper reasons. The existence of concurrent power does not in all cases compel its exercise so that the Commonwealth legislative Act will operate exclusively. But the problems with which this Bill is designed to deal are not of that kind. The problem is of a more fundamental kind. Here the nation is confronted with a question as to where the relevant legislative power resides. Does it reside in the Commonwealth to the exclusion of the States? Does it reside on the other hand in the States to the exclusion of the Commonwealth? Or does it reside somehow in both authorities - State and Commonwealth? Having regard to the vastly increased and rapidly increasing importance of our off-shore areas - an importance that derives in part from advanced developments in science and technology and in part from an enlarged public awareness of and concern with the need to preserve our marine ecology and our environmental resources from pollution of various kinds - this question as to the distribution of power as between Commonwealth and States is one that simply cries out for solution. 
I am in no doubt as to the proper principle to apply to the solution of the problem with which this Bill deals. This Bill is a casebook exercise of an attempt to implement a high constitutional principle, and it is a principle that does not involve any perversion of our federal system of government. It is a principle that I would define by saying that it is the prime duty of a federal government, of a federal parliament, to explore by all legitimate constitutional methods the boundaries of federal power with a view to acting within the limits established by dint of the exploratory process and with a view, of course, to acting within those limits in what both the Government and the Parliament conceive to be the national interest. Is there anything in this Bill but an attempt to implement that principle, which I regard as a great principle and a principle which in my own small way I tried during my time in office to implement? When I decided, as it happened because I was Attorney-General, on my own initiative but with support from my Prime Minister, to endeavour to explore the limits of the Commonwealth's corporations power, that was the principle that I was trying to serve. I was trying to open up some of the darker corners of our constitutional fabric. The attempt may not have been agreeable to all manner of people but I do not repent of having made it, because it has at least contributed to an enlarged understanding of the limits of Commonwealth power. 
This Bill serves the same fundamental and, I believe, great purpose. It serves a purpose - an object - that must be advanced in this Parliament and in succeeding parliaments if this federal polity in which we have the privilege of living is going to advance to the increasing greatness to which we want to see it advance. As I said, I know that these views do not command universal approbation, but that to me is nothing. I believe in them and I am glad that I was given a short time to try to implement them. After a long period of inaction - I made some reference to this before - attempts are being made to pursue consultations with the States in an attempt to overcome some of the opposition to the objects that this Bill is designed to achieve.  Sir, I  wish the Government success in this endeavour. It is good to know - if I may say this in a lighter vein - that the tactics originally attributed to that famous Roman general Quintus Fabius Maximus Cunctator are being discarded and I hope they remain discarded. It is high time they were discarded. While I wish the Government well in its endeavour I would be lacking in candour were I not to say 2 things: Firstly, I am sceptical as to the outcome of negotiations. I have in my mind the niggling feeling that negotiation, undertaken as it will be by, amongst others, my honourable and learned friend the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  will not necessarily overcome some of the prejudice that exists in certain quarters. 
I am very glad to hear it. I am bound to say that my learned and honourable friend may experience problems. I hope he overcomes them. I do not want to make his path any more difficult by exposing in greater detail what I think the problems are. He knows them as well as I do. Secondly, I hope that the end result of negotiations will not be a colourless compromise. I am sure that if my honourable friend the Foreign Minister has anything to do with it, it will not be a colourless compromise. But I do not want to see a colourless compromise, as I have described it, in which a decision on sovereignty ls averted and we end up with some sort of hotch-potch mirror legislation as in the case of off-shore oil. The vice of that sort of compromise is simply this: The basic conception upon which such mirror legislation rests ignores the proper constitutional relationship between Parliament and the Executive. 
It is not a good thing in terms of principle - although there was an argument in favour of making an exception to the principle in the case of the off-shore oil legislation - that 7 governments can, by agreement reached at ministerial level, effectively tie the hands of the parliaments to which those respective governments are supposed to be, and in fact ought to be, responsible. There is no doubt that there is room for consultation and co-operation between the States in relations to the administration of the off-shore areas. I am bound to say, however, that I would feel more comfortable in my mind if the negotiations were taking place against a background in which Commonwealth constitutional power, or lack of it, had been definitively established by the High Court. I support the Bill and I hope it has not too slow a passage through the Parliament. 
Will the Prime Minister make arrangements for the AttorneyGeneral's intended statement on trade practices to be either read to this chamber by the Minister representing the Attorney-General or tabled so that it may be debated in this House? 
