1 would like to congratulate the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  and the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0'K.eefe)  upon the maiden speeches which they have made, and I would wish them, at least for the life of this Parliament, a useful and constructive period in this House. The Governor-General's Speech was a much more grand document on this occasion than was the previous one several months ago, which was a perfunctory exercise. I do not know whether it lasted for minutes, but it certainly covered some seconds. On this occasion the speech tended to go even beyond the normal length. In many respects it contains the shreds and patches that the defeats at the last election inflicted on Government members, when they received an indication of what needed to be attended to. In the course of the Speech the other afternoon  His Excellency  mentioned two matters that I want to deal with first, although I do not want to take very long on them. He said, firstly, that a comprehensive statement would be made on Australia's defence policy in the early days of this session by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I would hope that this nation does not forget that this is the same Government which during the 1963 election campaign promised us the Fill aircraft. We have had the election of 1966 and the election of 1969, and we still do not have the FI 1 1 aeroplane. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  says that I am too impatient. Since the time that  Mr Robert  Menzies, as he then was, made the first announcement about the Fill Australia has expended on defence oyer S6,000m. 
I would again submit that in that period what is called the hardware of the Services has been orientated around that aeroplane for which we have already paid $300m and which we still have not received. I would commend to honourable members - and particularly to new members - of this House the 17th November 1969 issue of a publication called the 'Current Affairs Bulletin', which was issued after the recent general election, entitled 'Defence Hardware'. For the purposes of this 'Current Affairs Bulletin', defence hardware is taken to mean physical defence military resources. The learned writer goes on to say that there must be an attempt to outline the environment within which that hardware can be expected to operate or, put in another way, to discuss the forces that necessitated the acquisition of that hardware. In the period from 1963 to 1969, to which I have referred, out of a total expenditure of $6,000m some S4,000m, or more than twothirds, has been in the non-hardware area. It has been used to provide manpower and to cover the maintenance of the various Services. These figures show us what a tremendous hole there has been in the hardware procurement programme because so many of the eggs were placed in the basket of the Fill. Surely nobody would argue - I am sure that no-one on the Government side would do so - that the Army, Navy and Air Force work in isolation. Buying a piece of hardware with one Service in mind limits what can be bought for the others. Purchases ought to be integrated in some way. 
I do not know what would have happened to a Labor government if in 1963 it had said it was going to order this wonderful plane or if it had come along in 1966 and said, as my friend suggests: 'Be patient. We have not got it yet.' If in 1 969 Labor had said: 'We still have not got it' I am inclined to think that we would have been laughed out of court as a credible government. If the Government is now blithely to say - $6,000m later, without the linchpin, the Fill, and not knowing whether we are going to get it or not - that it is going to embark on a new, comprehensive resurvey of the defence forces, I think the Australian public ought to be a little critical of it. We have already paid $300m for the Fill and we have not received anything. If the implications of the writer of the 'Current Affairs Bulletin' are significant for us as a nation on the verge of the 1970s, as well as asking: 'What do we defend ourselves with?', we should be asking: 'What do we defend ourselves against?' 
The 'Current Affairs Bulletin' refers to reappraising our relations with Asia. I hope that a very early attempt will be made to disengage Australian troops from one area, the area of Vietnam. I hope that the deescalation will not lead to escalation somewhere else, as in Laos. I submit that, at least in the 1970s, Australia's sphere of influence is in Asia and South East Asia. If we are to exert any influence, it is the belief at least of my side of the House that our influence will be valuable only if it is orientated around the economic development of those areas rather than around the form of military aggression called defence procurement. I hope that these issues will be debated later. 
In the remaining time that I have available I want to speak briefly about something that was mentioned here today. I refer to these as rather cold words that I find in the Address-in-Reply: 
Full employment has been maintained and considerable expansion has taken place. Commerce and industry, apart from some rural industries, are prosperous. 
From what we heard here this morning and again this afternoon it seems that at least there are some doubts in people's minds as to whether rural industry, broadly speaking, is prosperous. Today I happened to come across one of those numerous publications that are sent to honourable members, this one being the 'Ricemill News'. I am sure it is well known to my colleague, the honourable member for the Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  I refer to the 'Ricemill News' for January 1970. I .have never noticed that it had what one might call a Labor slant, but this is what it says in an article at page 26 entitled 'Australian Farm Production to Increase', it states: 
Already, Australia has a potentially serious rural poverty problem on its hands, and for some industries, in particular the dairy industry, this problem is already a fact of life. 
The article continues: 
Australia as it enters the 70s still does not have a national farm policy, and what farm policies it has for different industries are in many cases antiquated and not attuned to the next 10 years. 
Then it goes on to note: 
The spokesmen have also asked repeatedly for the formulation of a national farm policy, but thoughts by the Government on the formulation of such a policy have been pigeon-holed. 
I repeat that this is not the wild rambling of some Labor columnist; it is a serious article in a rural journal, the .D :---; News'. 
I do not know. Perhaps the honourable gentleman can inform me. As I have already indicated, Australia has paid $300m for an aeroplane that it has not got. We are not sure, when we get it, whether it will do what we thought it would. During the course of the next 12 months the Government is going to underwrite the sum of $3 00m also to pay wheat growers in advance for wheat that may not be sold. Perhaps it will be sold, but at this stage in essence we are paying people to produce something about which there are uncertainties as to its subsequent destination. I simply take these two items - $3 00m up the spout for a plane that will not fly and $300m for wheat that at this stage we cannot sell. Both of these exercises are within the capacity of the Australian economy to finance. I just draw the analogy that, if expenditure of this kind were carefully planned rather than just prodigally spread. What a lot could be done perhaps to re-adjust the balance of the Australian economy. I am one who is rather horrified by the prospects of the city of Melbourne reaching a population of over 5 million before the turn of this century and the city of Sydney reaching perhaps over 6 million by the same date. Already Victoria and New South Wales between them contain 60% of the total population of Australia and more than half of the population of those two States is contained within the two conurbations of Melbourne and Sydney. In terms of expansion of population, the cities are growing relatively faster than are the country areas. 
I had the opportunity recently to revisit the part of the world where I was born. That is the Western District of Victoria. I found in 1970 that the same sorts of things are happening there as were happening in 1933. I had to leave the town of Hamilton where 1 was born because there was no economic opportunity there for my particular or peculiar talents, whichever way you like to regard them. That is still the situation. If we mean anything when we say we will halt the growth of the cities, we mean that we will encourage the expansion of population in the non-cities, in the rural areas. In my view this will not be accomplished if we think of towns such as Portland, Hamilton, Horsham and Warrnambool in isolation. This will be accomplished only if we act on a regional basis and then only with the combined co-operation of all levels of government, Federal, State and local. 
Every so often in these days a new word seems to be injected into our jargon. The new word coming in now seems to be ecology'. In some respects this seems to mean that we change the old thesis of the cradle to the grave and in the future think of development as a combined process all the way down from the sower to the sewer. I do not use that in any offensive sense. The development of any area has to be considered in the light of the resources available in the area, the technology available in the area and primarily the responses of the people who live in the area. I cannot see that there is any difference between the hundreds of regions - there may be less than 100 - that are viable when areas are aggregated. There is nothing essentially different, for example, between the area that my friend, the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  and I know, the Western District of Victoria, and the area surrounding the electorate of my colleague from Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  where we are prepared to take millions of dollars and hundreds or perhaps thousands of people to dig a hole in the ground. We are digging the hole in the ground because we think we can find there not something that is wanted primarily in. Australia but something that is wanted outside Australia. 
If we think about it, we must agree that that is still the situation with Australia's wool industry. Broadly the whole of Australia's wool production is exported, lt is not used in Australia. I sometimes wonder whether, if we were 100 years earlier, if the export trade had been less significant than it is now and if we were starting Australia, we would start it on the basis of a wool industry. Australians have had a great reluctance to do anything except what had to be done internally. Historically, of course, the wool industry has found an export market. I do not claim to be an expert in these matters, .but there seems to be a school of thought, perhaps residing in the Australian Country Party more than anywhere else, which holds that the only people who can talk about wool, wheat, sugar and butter in this House are those who live in the country. Most of us have to' eat the stuff and wear the stuff and after all many of those who live in the country do not produce these items. 
As reasonable as possible. I think that the people who live on the land are as entitled to a fair price for their product as are the people who, say, work in factories. At least the trade unions are systematic; I doubt whether the rural industries are quite as systematic. There are divisions between large and small growers. I am fortified by a publication on the wool industry issued recently by the Committee for Economic Development of Australia. It said that in terms of total production there is a demand for wool, that there is no long accumulation of it. that inflation in Australia has not been any greater than inflation in the countries that have bought our wool and that therefore, in terms of comparative costs, they should still be willing to pay in 1 970 the same real price as they did 5 or 6 years ago. However, that does not seem to be the position. I would submit that something is very much wrong with the marketing of wool in Australia. Far be it from me to submit any simple solution, but I would think that at the moment Australia is in a sense being robbed of about $200m in terms of the potential price of the wool clip. I met some people in the Western District who said: 'We produced as much wool this year of the same quality as we did in the previous year but received SI, 800 less for it'. This is a product that the rest of the world is still supposed to want. 1 submit that something is wrong somewhere. 
I also found in the town of Koroit, which my friend would possibly know, that potatoes were being sold at $10 a ton. By my arithmetic $ 1 0 a ton is near enough to ic a lb. Yet in my greengrocery shop I. pay 4c a lb. What happened in the long chain from the time the potatoes were under the ground until they reached my mouth to raise the price from the ic that the grower received to the 4c that the shopkeeper received? I do not think that the shopkeeper is getting the rake off either, but somewhere along the line somebody is getting more than he is entitled to receive. The potato grower in Koroit is entitled to a fair price for his potatoes and in my view it is much more than $10 a ton. In my view the grower could be paid more than $10 a ton and potatoes could still bc sold at the same price of 4c. Somebody along the chain of distribution should receive less and the grower should receive more. 
These are problems that we must solve, if we want to be realistic. There is no difference between systematically putting some kind of industry half way between Portland and Warrnambool or Warrnambool and Hamilton, for instance, and digging a hole in the ground for Poseidon. It is wrong of the Government to think that something wonderful is being done in 1970 with the creation of a new organisation to be called the Industry Development Corporation. I submit that what is wrong with Australia at the moment is that we have not properly husbanded our savings to get the greatest economic development possible. We have allowed others to come in and do by default what we should have been doing ourselves. Again I draw the attention of honourable members to this interesting article contained in the most recent issue of the 'Australian Economic Review 4th Quarter 1 969'. The article is headed: 'Aspects of Financing the Mineral Industry in Australia' and was written by  Mr P.  J. Rose. Table 3 in the article shows the sources of new share capital of Australian companies. In the period from 1959 to 1967 - 8 or 9 yearspeople in Australia purchased new shares worth SI, 159m in undertakings but people outside Australia bought interest in Australian companies to the value of SI, 143m. 
I submit that there is no need to have an organisation to harness more overseas development. In reply to a question asked yesterday the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said that he could get 8% interest on his idle funds in London. At what rate does he think people are going to invest in new banking institutions? Are they going to do so at less than 8% or more than 8%? I submit that the economic development of Australia in the future is dependent upon interest rates being brought down rather than increasing. This has been the policy of my Party in a nutshell: That more people in the community are advantaged when interest rates are low than are advantaged by interest rates being high. If interest rates are high it means that the profiteer and the speculator gain and that the person in dire economic circumstances pays far higher for his standard of living, for his goods and services and for the roof above his head than in conscience he should. I hope that in the next 10 years we will plan more systematically the development of this great country of ours to stop the drift from country to city. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honouarble member's time has expired. Before calling the honourable member for Denison I remind the House that this is his maiden speech and I ask that the usual courtesy be extended to him. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I note that he says that he will have future talks with the Governor of the Reserve Bank. I ask him specifically: First, did he have discussions with the Governor of the Reserve Bank prior to the recent increase in interest rates? Secondly, does he in general support the increases in interest rates? Thirdly, what positive, even specific, benefits, internal and external, does he believe will flow from the increase in interest rates? 
-I accept this contingency motion, as it is called, but I am sure that yesterday there was concern in some quarters that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  might be contemplating introducing some early amendments to the sales tax legislation. I accept his assurance that this is not the case and the Opposition agrees to this motion on the basis of its being merely a necessity. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Opposition has raised for discussion this matter of public importance consequent upon the general increase in interest rates which was made at the end of last week. This increase was announced by the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia. It creates a new rate as against the ruling structure that had operated since August 1969. At that time, a general increase of one quarter of 1% took place in the interest rate structure. On this occasion, the increase is of the magnitude of one half of 1%. It is technically true that this increase was made, as the Government claims, by the Governor of the Reserve Bank. However, if one reads, as one should, the provisions of the Reserve Bank Act, especially sections 10 and 11, one is left in no doubt as to who ultimately is responsible for the monetary and banking policy of Australia, including interest rates. If there are open differences of opinion between the Governor of the Reserve Bank and the Treasurer, a formula is provided in section 1 1 of the Act to overcome the difficulty, but the essentiality of the section is that, if there is such a difference pf opinion, properly the will of the Government should prevail. Those sections were inserted in the banking legislation by Labor. They have remained there despite fundamental changes of the Reserve Bank in Australia. 
I state that, only to note that the Government is responsible for the ruling rates of interest. It can also be selective about the operation of the interest rate structure. I would submit to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  that he should have a text prominently displayed in his office to remind him that more people are advantaged by lower interest rates than are advantaged by higher interest rates. Reading such a text each morning would be a salutary lesson. I know that sometimes there may be some difficulties in avoiding certain changes, but ultimately the government of the day is responsible for the monetary policy, including the interest rate policy. Fundamentally, of course, the interest rate policy involves substantial questions of social equity. 
One place where the impact of a rise of interest rates is felt most harshly is in the field of housing. It has been pointed out here many times before that housing is not only a physical problem of acquiring land and building a house. Above all, for most people who cannot afford to pay cash for that very large transaction - the buying of a house is the largest single economic act in most peoples' lives- 
It brings with it a variety of human problems, as my colleague from 
Gellibrand reminds me. However, it is the financial cost that is the significant factor for the majority of people who try to purchase a house, whether new or old. For that group the interest rate is a most critical factor. 
The Treasurer spoke rather airily earlier this week about the economy being overheated. I would think that he is suffering a little from what might be called a sauna bath complex. There may be overheating in some areas, but 1 would submit that in some other areas affecting substantial sections of the community they are very cold. This is nowhere more evident than in the field of housing. The Treasurer has chosen to see the signs of the times one way and I am not sure that everyone in the community agrees with his reading of the signs. 1 am fortified on this occasion by a statement from a source that I would not have thought I could look to hopefully for a quotation. I have here a newsletter from a body called Trans City Discount Ltd, which is one of the authorised operators in the short term money market in Australia. When writing a week or two before the interest rate was increased, its view was that there was no case for a rise in the interest rate. It said: 
For the private individual, and for governments, money is already too expensive. Further increases will merely shift borrowing power to the corporate sector, and might have politically unacceptable repercussions on the social structure. 
It is the repercussions on the social structure in the field of housing that 1 want to speak about this afternoon. 
This morning someone quoted the latest compilation of quarterly statistics of gross national product. I think we could draw whatever conclusions we wanted from those statistics. Some of them could be read as signs that the boom is dying down. It seems to me that the only place where there is evidence of excessive expenditure at the moment is in the field of public expenditure, and I would have thought that the Treasurer would have his finger on this expenditure. The series of indices of progress from the September quarter to the December quarter do not to my mind necessarily support the view of the Treasurer; they incline to the view taken by Trans City Discount Ltd. 
The Australian housing market is a complex of financial structures. Some fortunate people are able to pay cash, but most people seeking to finance a home must resort to a mortgage transaction. Again 1 commend to the interest of honourable members the very valuable set of statistics and information contained in the publication 'Finance for Housing in Australia' prepared by the Housing Industry Association and dated February 1970. At page 15, it is shown that for the year 1968-69 the amount of identifiable finance provided for new house construction coming from Government sources amounted to about $243m and from other sources was nearly $l,000m. The other sources are savings banks, major trading banks, life assurance companies and registered building societies. The savings banks are the principal suppliers and provide nearly half of the sum of S 1,000m. 
The first impact of an increase of  i%  in the interest rate structure on new transactions is about $5m extra. That is,  i%  on the sum of $!,000m. But in addition a considerable number of existing mortgage transactions or finance arrangements fluctuate when interest rates alter. Some contracts are fixed but many others, including the borrowings of such bodies as cooperative housing societies, fluctuate as the borrowing rate of money alters, lt is likely therefore that the impact of the increase in the interest rate could be at least double the initial $5m. 
But where in the final analysis is the pinch felt most? lt is the view of the Opposition that it will be felt most in the pockets of those who can least afford to bear it. The housing publication to which I have already referred estimates that there are at the moment between 10,000 and 20,000 people desirous of building houses who cannot be financed because of the difficulty known as the deposit gap and the rather arbitrary test that is applied to a prospective borrower's income. Money will not be lent under this test if the weekly outgoing - that is, the servicing in terms of interest payment and amortisation - exceeds one-quarter of the weekly income of the borrower. This is the group that is disadvantaged every time there are interest rate alterations. 
As I have indicated, in the final analysis the responsibility for varying interest rates -  if it is thought necessary in some directions - rests with the Government. A gentleman rather grandly commented on this last Saturday and said that a rise of 0.5% would scarcely cause a ripple on the stock exchange. Well, I think some people are concerned about ripples in places other than the stock exchange. I suggest that the 0.5% increase causes a very significant difficulty to some thousands of people who already find it difficult, at existing rates, to finance home purchase transactions. I suggest that the Treasurer, and the Government, should consider this point when contemplating this rather arbitrary exercise of monetary control. When one looks at it, a rise of 0.5%, from the point of view of the gentlemen of the stock exchange, will not make very much difference to some types of financial operations. But to exercise the interest rate in this way is to use it as a crude instrument, a rather brutal instrument so far as the least deserving sections of the community are concerned. 

 Mr Speaker, that is the reason we have chosen, in bringing forward this matter today, not to talk about the interest rate in the broad. One could do that and one could engage in debate - not on a semantic basis either - by asking the Treasurer what he really means by overheating. In a question the other day I challenged him to give us some specific instances of where he thought benefits would flow from the increase in interest rates. I am trying to indicate that there are some points where no benefit flows and where there is a distinct disadvantage. One is the housing field which is, as I have said, of substantial magnitude. We have a growing population and we have full employment. But even with full employment the fellow on the average weekly wage, with a wife and 2 or more children to support, who has to finance a home transaction, is receiving only a little in excess of $70 a week. The document I quoted from earlier shows that the average price of a house is now somewhere in the region of $10,000. This means that many people need to have a mortgage, either a first mortgage or first and second mortgages, of approximately $8,000. 
If honourable members look at table 8 appearing at page 21 of the book entitled Finance for Housing in Australia' they will find there the effects on mortgage transactions of rises in interest rates. The table reveals that if one borrows $8,000 on a 25- year term at 51% interest, the weekly repayments are $11.29. If the rate goes up by 0.5% the weekly repayments rise to $1 1.85, an increase of 56 cents per week. If we consider this in the light of a quarterly arrangement it means that by a mere increase of 0.5% many people are prevented from obtaining finance from some of the organisations that are willing to lend money but are lending it only, of course, on terms consonant with their borrowing rate, which again is pushed up by reason of the recently announced action of the Reserve Bank of Australia. Therefore we urge the Government to reconsider this matter, at least as to how it affects this vital field of housing. 

 - Mr Speaker, I submit with all respect that the conduct of this House as well as being governed by the Standing Orders and by invocation of  Sir Erskine  May's 'Parliamentary Practice', should be governed also by commonsense. This morning, we had some discussion about certain amendments that were not circulated. I ask the honourable members on the Government side of the House to read the amendment circulated this afternoon in the name of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  It is headed: 'Motion of censure of the Leader  al  the House'. That heading appears under the title 'House of Representatives'. It clearly indicates that it is a motion of censure of the Leader of the House. I submit, with all respect, that if this sort of amendment were proposed in even a branch of the Australian Labor Party the  chairman  would rule it out of order. If a person put forward one proposition and the other side tried to avoid the debate by putting up an entirely alternative one, the  chairman  would rule the second proposition out of order. 

 Mr Speaker, as I have said, I have great respect for you and for the institution of Parliament. I ask you to reconsider this matter. The opposition does not want to move dissent from your ruling. As I see it, it would make a mockery of things in the future. There may well be reasons in the future for Ministers to be censured. It would mean that if a motion of censure were moved against a Minister for Repatriation, somebody could rise and put an entirely different proposition. I submit that this is all wrong. At the moment.  Mr Speaker,  you are trying to resolve 2 questions simultaneously. Not even your wit can accomplish this. The 2 questions are, firstly, a motion of censure against the Leader of the House and, in rebuttal, an amendment aimed at censuring the Leader of the Opposition. Those 2 questions cannot be resolved simultaneously. 
I submit that this is contrary to commonsense. If you would like to suspend the sitting for a few minutes in order to take counsel with you learned advisers then we  of  the Opposition would be quite willing that that course should be followed. I do not want to see an unfortunate precedent created now which will set difficulties for us in the future - a precedent which is contrary to commonsense. The Government has the numbers to defeat the original motion but it seems to have adopted a shabby, schoolboy, smart guy trick to get out of facing up to the proper proposition. You,  Sir, I  am afraid, have abetted the Government by regarding the Government's action as coming within the terms of an amendment. 
But if it is a censure motion directed against one individual how can it be made a censure against another individual? 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. Is Australia so short of overseas reserves that virtue is seen in the borrowing abroad of $20m by the Australian Resources Development Bank at a rate higher than the rate at which the Bank customarily lends? Did that bank need to seek approval from the Reserve Bank to make such borrowings? Did not the Prime Minister himself indicate in a recent address in Perth that the ARDB faced difficulties in borrowing abroad as against what he imagined would be the position of the proposed new Industry Development Corporation? Will the right honourable gentleman amplify what the difficulties on one side are as against the supposed case on the other? 
 Mr Speaker,  I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof:  realising that some estate planning may already have been effected following the promise of this legislation on 24th September 1969, the passage of this limited Bill which offers some measure  of  relief from death duties in the rural sector is not opposed, but the House is of opinion that it is inadequate, as it fails to recognise - 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation, 
the particularly critical situation of - 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector, and 
the small business unit in the industrial and commercial sectors, where in both cases a large part of tha estate is in a non-liquid form, the dismemberment of which to meet the tax liability destroys the basis of efficient operation, and 
that difficulties are aggravated by the joint operations in this field of the Commonwealth and the States . 
The House considers that these matters should be fully examined with a view to early relief being afforded by further amendments of the Act'. 
I thought it wise to read the amendment first,  Mr Speaker,  because to a great extent the case which I wish to make will bring 
Out  the points involved in it. When the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  introduced this Bill in this House some weeks ago, he said: 
The amendments proposed by the Bill will result in a significant reduction in the duty payable on smaller rural estates. In the Government's view, they will provide valuable assistance to the heirs to farm properties and will do much to discourage the breaking-up of economic farm units to obtain finance to meet estate duty. 
It might be said, firstly, that it possibly is indicative of the Government's attitude to a lot of problems that it seems to be more concerned with the problems of the dead than it is with the problems of the living. Insofar as this Bill claims to give relief to small rural landholders in particular, again, as with many of the measures proposed by this Government, when they are subject to analysis, the greatest benefit is given to those who least deserve it and the least benefit is given to those whose need is greatest. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table that was incorporated earlier when the former Treasurer, the present Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  outlined the substance of this Bill in September last year. 

<graphic href="067131197004211_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

Assumptions: 
Whole of estate passes to widow, widower, children or grandchildren of deceased 
Net value of primary production assets represents two-thirds of net value of estate, before allowance of statutory exemption. 
This is a simple table which shows the benefit to people in particular income groups who are affected by estate duly. One of the purposes of this Bill is to increase what is called the 'statutory exemption', as it applies to rural properties, from $20,000 to $24,000. Many of the farms about which we are talking unfortunately have liabilities as well as assets and the duty currently payable is based on total assets minus total liabilities. The value of a farm can be substantially above that figure because there may be a mortgage or an overdraft as high as $20,000 which, of course, has to be deducted when computing the value of the estate for duty purposes. 1 do not deny, as a common sense proposition, that all of us would sooner pay a duty of $400 than $937. I simply wish to ask a categorical question: In terms of the critical needs of farmers and others concerned when this situation arises as a result of the death of the owner, is the position really made significantly different because the duty has been reduced by $537? I ask that question critically, lt makes a difference of $537. Fair enough. But in terms of the nature of the transactions involved and in terms of the critical problems associated with the payment of mortgages, the payment of other costs and so on. the difference is pretty small when related to the total problem. 
On the other hand, as one goes further down this table which I have had incorporated in Hansard, one finds that the reduction of duty is quite significant if the property is worth $110,000 prior to the calculation of statutory exemption. In that case the reduction in duty payable is $5,170. The maximum advantage under this proposal, according to the table, occurs when the net value of the estate before allowance of statutory exemption is Si 70,000. This occurs before the cut-off point. At $170,000 the maximum advantage is a reduction of $7,830 in the duty payable. Tt was this that led me to make a survey of the operation of probate and estate duties in the Commonwealth. What astonishes me is that very little systematic work has been done upon these propositions. I am astonished by the paucity of information contained in the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation about them. I presume that he has published all the figures that have so far been requested. 
Nevertheless they are deficient for making any sensible analysis of the impact of the duties payable at death on any sort of property. Every year there are about 100,000' to 105,000 deaths in Australia. According to the statistics in the latest report of the Commissioner of Taxation, fewer than 15,000 people had estates that were dutiable or, broadly, estates that had assessable values in excess of $20,000. So it is a fairly rare group in the community, to start with, that even accumulates property of an assessable value in excess of $20,000. Only 1 in 7 persons who die is liable for estate duty at the Commonwealth level. 
The incidence of duty is somewhat higher in the States. This is a tax field where both the Commonwealth and the States operate jointly. I took as being relevant the figures for Victoria, because it was rather difficult to look at all the States. In 1967 the number of estates for which probate papers had to be lodged was 19,768. Bearing in mind that Victoria has about one-quarter of the population of Australia we see that substantially more people in Victoria were liable for estate duty, or probate duty as it is called, than in the Commonwealth sphere. I think that it is called succession duty in South Australia because the tax operates somewhat differently. The reason for that increase in the number of estates liable for estate duty of one kind or another is that more people are possessors of dwelling houses and by reason of inflation the values of most of those properties at death exceed the ceilings of statutory exemption. 
In the 'Taxpayers Bulletin* of 24th March an interesting table appears at page 20. It shows the amount of estate duty that has been collected by the Commonwealth over recent years. I do not want to go through the whole of the table but I mention that for the year 1968 the amount of Commonwealth estate duty collected was $54,717,000. For the year ended 30th June 1969 the amount collected was $60,726,000. Again, that is not a very significant part of the total taxation collections by the Commonwealth. The difference amounts to about $6,000m. If one looks at the totality of State and Commonwealth collections and at the amending legislation, one sees that part of the difficulty is that it seeks to give relief that cannot be adequately effective for the people who need it most because of the operation of the States in the same field. The States rely upon this tax to a greater extent than does the Commonwealth. In fact, New South Wales collects as much as the Commonwealth does in estate duties and Victoria collects a sum equal to about twothirds of what the Commonwealth collects. In the aggregate State collections in this field are about $120m. I have already mentioned that Commonweath collections in this field amount to $60m. 
On an examination of the incidence of this tax - these figures, too, can be found in the report of the Commissioner of Taxation - one finds that the number of dutiable estates for the year 1967-68 was 14,449. They had a gross value of $243m realty and $597m personalty. The value of personalty was nearly 21 times as great as that of realty. Those figures typify the existence in an industrialised community such as ours of the tendency to hold one's property in the form of personalty rather than realty. It is in the field of realty that estate duty is most significant for rural properties. The gross value of $840m was reduced to a net value of $805m because certain deductions to charitable organisations were available. Then SI 8m was described as exempt estate. State duties accounted for $1 14.6m, and these are deductible in arriving at the amount that is liable for federal duty. The statutory exemption was $ 155.8m. Those 3 items totalled $289m. That means that the dutiable value of estates had fallen from $840m to $51 6m. The total duty assessed on that residue was $58m. Looking at the breakdown as between the States - they are listed according to the value of the estate, as are income statistics - one finds that of estates of a value under $50,000, which are the ones we are most concerned about in this measure, 9,717, or nearly 2 out of 3, were dutiable for Commonwealth purposes. They amounted to 67.1% of the total, which is slightly over two-thirds. Their gross value was $283m, and the net duty assessed on ali those estates was S4m. 
I submit, as a rough stab, that not much would be lost if estates of under $50,000 were exempt altogether for federal purposes. The loss of revenue would- be about $4ni. 1 will have more to say in a moment about the rural estates. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech that the full effect of the abatement of duty on rural estates would involve a loss of revenue of $5.3m. About Sim of it, or one-fifth, will go to the smallest estates and, as happens with so many other things, the major part of the advantage will go to the larger estates. The other interesting proposition with regard to probate duties is that if we look at the total figure of 14,489 estates we see that something like one-quarter of them or about 3,700, were in the rural field. This simply highlights the central problem here. Rural property holders in fact do not comprise anything like one-quarter of the total population. But it is more likely that a farm will come into the purview of assessment for estate duty, Commonwealth and State, than will some other form of property because farms tend to be still personally held. This is one of the real difficulties that face the Australian community at the moment. ! What is the size of a viable farm? Merely to talk about 'farm* in general is too wide. A sugar farm is a different proposition from a poultry farm; the wheat farm is different from a mixture of wheat and wool. Even wool farms are classified, according to statistics, in various forms - pastoral, wheat-sheep, high rainfall and so on. The thing that astonished me was that in most of the fields, other than fields such as sugar and dairying, the average capitalisation was often in the region of $200,000. This seems to me to be a pretty significant social problem. I must say I found an exercise I undertook quite interesting in some respects. For instance, according to the wheat survey of 1967 which took a 3-year average between 1964-1965 and 1966-67, 46.5% of wheat farms had capitalisations under $100,000 and 53.5% had capitalisations over $100,000. This also applies when we go into the dairy field. There is a greater range of variety in this field and, as honourable members from farming communities know, dairying is one of the most critical fields in the whole problem of rural activity in Australia. The dairying industry seems to be divided into 3 categories called 'all industry', manufacturing' and 'whole milk*. The range of size of dairy farms by capital employed in the 'all industry' category is from $20,800 to $83,000. In the 'manufacturing' category it is from $19,900 to $71,000. In the 'whole milk' category it is from $24,300 up to $94,400. 
Then we get into the dried fruit categories, and I am sure the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  will be interested in this. I take my figures from the April 1969 issue of the 'Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics' published by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. The dried fruit man is still a comparatively small farmer in terms of capitalisation but nevertheless is still fairly large. For what is called the 'Sunraysia specialist' the average capitalisation is $32,200. For what is called 'Sunraysia only' - I will leave to the honourable member for Mallee to explain to me afterwards the difference between a 'Sunraysia specialist' and a 'Sunraysia only' - the figure is $31,900. In Robinvale the figure is slightly less at $29,700. In an area known as 'midMurray' it is $17,800 arid in South Australia it is $25,500. In all areas of the dried fruit industry the average is $29,000. 
In cotton farming there is a tremendous range of variation. For the MIA, which I understand is the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area, the average capitalisation is given as $133,700. In the Namoi it is $320,800. Apparently one has to be pretty big to start up as a cotton grower in the Namoi area although one does not do too badly when one gets there. In Queensland, the southern area' has an average capitalisation of $112,700, the 'central area' $46,900 and the 'raingrown' area $43,200. In the Ord area in Western Australia, a Government creation, the average size is $98,600. In the sheep area we are really getting into very big stuff. I do not want to go into too much detail about this; the figures are set out very completely in the supplement to the Australian Sheep Industry Survey 1964-1965 to 1966-1967, which is also published by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. There are 3 divisions - the pastoral zone, the wheat-sheep zone and the high rainfall zone. In those areas the capital structure is quite often of the magnitude of almost $200,000 and the value of the land represents more than half of the value in most cases. Again this raises a pretty significant social problem. It seems to me that the Government's measure does not give the greatest assistance to. those who need it most. It tends to give the least assistance to those who need it most and, as in so many other fields, no attempt is made by the Government to define the economic farm unit which it thinks should not be broken up. There . is no doubt in terms of sheer size that there are some units that are not in much danger of being broken up and, to some extent, while there can be an area too small to farm, I think occasionally the social problem is that maybe some areas are too big to farm. This afternoon I do not want to enter into any of those interesting fields but I think there are some areas which have to be examined before a systematic approach can be made to this problem. 
I was interested, when trying to make some comparison between what applies here and what applies in some other parts to find that in the British system of death duties - the method in which duty falls has been restructured to some extent - there has always been a scheme whereby the rate of duty payable on what might be called agricultural or farming units in that country was only 45% of the duty applicable in other cases for estates of the same size. Apparently if a person was shrewd enough he could almost at the point of death convert his estate from industrial to rural to get the advantage of a lower duty. I am glad to see that there are some provisions in this measure that keep that door closed. It is surely of great concern to a community - and most of all to certain parties who pride themselves on being free enterprise in their attitudes - to ask: Is Australia not tending to become a sort of latifundia where property is handed down from generation to generation rather than a place where somebody can just start up by saying that he wants to be a farmer? On the other hand, because we are not facing up to the realities and some of the difficulties - this is why I began by saying I think sometimes we are too concerned about giving relief at the point of death instead of giving vital assistance during the life time of a farmer - we are allowing certain things to go on within our existing tax structures that could very well1 be -blocked. 
I was astonished to read an advertisement in a publication which I bought the other day. I went into one of our bookshops. A sale of back issues of overseas magazines was in progress. The shop was selling magazines that it had not been able to sell earlier. Honourable members know what I mean. The bookshop purchased too many of the magazines and was selling them a few weeks later because they were stale. Honourable members may be familiar with the glossy English magazine 'Country Life'. I bought an issue of 'Country Life' dated 9th October 1969. It contains a half page advertisement which is headed: 
John D. Wood &amp; Co., in association with Hepper &amp; Sons, East Parade, Leeds, and other Yorkshire offices. 
The advertisement reads: 
Western Australia - Agricultural Lease Back - between 5,OOO and 10,000 acres; capital required for land and development costs between £35,000 and £200,000 (to suit investors requirements). 
Those amounts represent sterling. 
The advertisement set out the following facts: 
Location: Near the coast, approximately 250 miles north of Perth. 
This is the interesting part: 
Benefits: Estate Duty relief for UK residents also other UK and Australian Tax concessions. 
Security: First class covenant from the Tenant (A public company) who have experienced a personal record in the area and who will provide the working capital. 
Tenant Management: Farming Management Services Pty Ltd. 
I do not know what that is. The advertisement continues: 
The property offers A SOUND YIELDCAPITAL GROWTH and ensures the purchaser a developed viable farm at the termination of the 12 year lease. 
I submit to the House that this is the sort of thing that is going on. We have the other example of the Pitt Street farmers. We used to call them Collins Street farmers, but because those from Sydney are dominant now they are known as Pitt Street farmers. They represent the same kind of thing. Apparently they are people who are persuaded into the field of farming. I do not deny that many of these gentlemen may turn out to be efficient farmers. But they go into farming because they have the income ability to purchase properties and to claim the concessions that are available for primary production. One of the advantages is that what are normally capital items to someone else can be treated as income items straight away, and even in other cases written down as depreciation much more quickly than others are able to do. 
What we have are groups in the community taking advantage of these sections of our law. Surely it would have been possible to put a proviso in the Income Tax Act to deal with allowances in the same way as the Government is providing now in relation to probate that the advantages will not accrue unless a certain part of the total activities is primary in nature. I am no rural expert. I have never claimed to be a rural expert although I do not think that anybody can ignore having a big interest in rural problems. With all respect to the gentlemen from the Country Party on the other side of the House who appear to think sometimes that the only people who should speak on wheat, wool and beef are those who produce those items rather than those who occasionally eat or use those items, I point out that there is a long road, as we all know, from the farm to the mouth of the consumer. I think that these matters are of some concern to us. Nevertheless, I would suggest that one of the effects of the Collins Street farmer is to raise the capital value of land, which is the principal item in most farms, although the value of land cannot be unrelated to the stocking capacity of the land. I appreciate that point. 
Let me highlight to the House the difficulty with probate in Australia at the moment. I have read, perhaps with some criticism, this interesting report entitled The Wool Industry' prepared by CEDA which is the Committee for Economic Development of Australia. In relation to this matter, this group says at page 27:  a property valued at $40,000 In 1911 would be valued at about $200,000 today, merely as a result of the inflationary process. Death duties on the propertyin 1911 (at today's rates) would have been $4,566 absorbing 11½% of its value. Today, as the result of depreciation in the value of money (inflation) and not because of any change in the real . value, the same property would attract duties amounting to $67,222 and absorbing over 33% of its value. 
When death duties were first instituted, they were justified on the ground that ordinary Income tax was very low, and therefore it was not unreasonable to collect something from the estate by way of succession and probate duties. That justification has long since disappeared with the sharp rise in income tax rates. 
That is the opinion of the writers of the report. Nevertheless, surely it is obvious enough that just as much need exists for restructuring in this tax field as exists in some other fields of taxation impact in Australia today. 
It seems to me that this is a sort of piecemeal meddling in the matter. I do not deny that benefit is given to the small as well as to the great. But the man who needs it most gets least. Again, I would draw the attention of honourable members to the impact of total duties in Australia. The State of South Australia, from which my friend. the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  comes, recently made amendments to its law which were supposed to give benefit to rural holdings but the full impact of that State remedy is lost because the Commonwealth then comes in for tax on a bigger residue than would otherwise apply. This seems to me to be a rather absurd situation. 
Available now in the Parliamentary Library - it was not available until I asked for it, and this seems to be an indication of how little interest is taken in this subject in Australia - is a book entitled: 'Estate and Gift Taxes - A Comparison', edited by G. S. A. Wheatcroft. Any honourable members who have read overseas tax journals will be familiar with  Mr Wheatcroft  as a pretty voluminous contributor to such journals. In the course of Chapter 5 of this book, be makes a comparison between estate and gift taxes in Australia, Canada, Great Britain and the United States of America. He has prepared a table which, to some extent, would need to be modified now because it was written in 1965 and the Australian part is expressed still in terms of pounds, not dollars. The figures are simple enough to convert. 
This is what he says: 
Taking first the rates where no relationship applies- 
This is where an estate passes, rather than from husband to wife, at some other level:  it would appear that in the smaller estates the Australian rates- 
These were combined State and Commonwealth rates:  are more severe than the others . . . in the middle ranges (£A50,000-£A250,000 and equivalents) the Australian and British rates are roughly comparable, as are those of Canada and 
USA, but the rates of the 2 former are approximately double those of the 2 latter: in the higher ranges the rates in Australia and Canada stabilise near 50% whilst those in Great Britain and USA go considerably higher. 
If one had much more time one could argue the ethics of whether or not death duties should be imposed. One could also argue whether it would be a more equitable scheme to tax inheritance rather than to tax the estate itself, as is done in some countries. If probate were passed in smaller units the total incidence of tax would not be so great. These are the sorts of things that 1 would hope would ultimately be examined in Australia. As long as this examination is not made those who will bear the harshest burden of probate and estate duty will be, firstly, the small farmers. This is the situation at which our amendment is directed. lt is difficult to dismember a small business. There are plenty of businesses in the country and city with capitalisation in the region of $60,000 to $70,000. No relief is given under this measure for owners of those businesses. In the British Act there is a small business section. These are the ones on whom the highest impact of unsatisfactory legislation will fall. 
We will have to clarify the position in Australia. To my mind, the sad thing about the wool survey 1 mentioned is that it sees the solution of the problem of the wool industry us a problem of aggregation. Surely this raises very serious problems in a country which believes that there are too many people in the city already and not enough in the country towns. Vet the solution to some of our rural problems is given as aggregation and making a viable farm somewhat larger. We can still have a process that will ensconce the people who are released from the small farms in the industries in the towns rather than in the cities, but it certainly needs a much more collective approach. 1 would ask the Government to consider viability. Some of the honourable members who will speak after me have been successful farmers. I think they recognise the reality that you would have to have a capitalisation in the region of $200,000. Much farming and a lot of the soldier settlement farming was posited on different sorts of bases. There is no doubt that in the next several years the problems of the wool industry in particular will be highly significant to the progress of the Australian economy. 
I was interested to read a comment in an article that came to me the other day. The comment was attributed to Professor Gruen. Honourable members may know that the Monash University undertook on behalf of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation or one of the other United Nations bodies a survey of the world demand for primary products in the 1970s, taking into account what Australia would be able to contribute. At one stage just after that survey had been published Professor Gruen was optimistic enough to state that in the 1970s he thought that the wool industry could presume that it would receive between 44c and 46c a pound as an average price for greasy wool. But he said on 29th January 1968, nearly 2 years ago. when addressing a meeting of farm management consultants: 'In the next 5 to 10 years a further decline in the price level seems to be more likely than any other eventuality'; but instead of talking of a price of between 44c and 46c Professor Gruen talks about one between 33c and 37c. 
I do not think honourable members will cavil at the efficiency of wool farming in Australia in recent years, but every honourable member would know that a decline of lc a pound in the average price of wool means a drop of $20m in yearly earnings. Above all, it basically means that our overseas earnings will be affected by almost that amount because some 92% of the Australian wool clip is sold overseas. So if there is a decline from an average price of between 44c and 46c to a price somewhere between 33c and 37c, a drop in the region of 10c, it will mean a variation of S200m in external earnings. Whatever the consolation that may be taken to ourselves from increased earnings from minerals, it must be remembered that what is earned from minerals is very heavily underpinned by a commitment to service the overseas capital that went into the mining. That is not true in the case of the wool industry. The wool industry is still basically owned by Australians and therefore its export earnings are full export earnings, at least to that extent. 
This is why we have taken, the opportunity not to give so much attention to the little benefit that the Bill will provide but to try to draw the attention of the House to the serious nature of the problems that are now upon us and the impact that existing and prevailing systems of taxation - both income tax and estate and probate duties - have upon us and to suggest why a measure as small as this, even though it may concede benefits somewhere, is still not fundamentally facing up to the critical problems of the agricultural, primary or rural sections of the community which are still important for their own sakes, for the sakes of the people who live in them and for the sake of the future expansion of the Australian economy. 
-I would just like to say a few words at this stage to clarify some of the matters that were raised during the second reading debate. Basically the attitude of the Australian Labor Party was that, whilst no-one disagrees that this measure gives some relief to such farmers as may die, it does little to keep alive some farms that may die in the years that are ahead of us. I think the figures that have been given from this side of the House aresignificant. In terms of the totality of the community, farmers comprise something like 8%, but in terms of numbers they are responsible for one-quarter of the estates that are levied for estate duty; and they pay, as my colleague, the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  pointed out, 38% of the duty that is collected. With all respect to a Party that is supposed to defend the interests of the farmers, the purport of this Bill is to reduce by $5m or 8% the amount that is currently collected in estate duty, as it is called at the Commonwealth level. Of this, $lm will go to the farms worth less than 40%, but it will still leave the farmers, who comprise 8% of the totality of the community, to pay something over one-third of the total estate duty. If honourable members opposite are satisfied with that proposition, all I can say is that quite candidly it astonishes me. 
The honourable member may take what he can get but he ought to acknowledge what he is losing, and surely this is the significant part. As we tried to point out here this afternoon, there are a number of industries involved - the sugar industry, the wool industry, the wheat industry, the butter industry and the dried fruits industry. With the exception of the wool industry - nearly 90% of its total production is sold overseas - the basic difficulty is that more than half of the total production is not sold on the Australian market. Yet the conditions of competitiveness are determined by the internal costs and by the impact on the taxation system. We have suggested here this afternoon that two-thirds of the impact of probate duties - it is called estate duty at the Commonwealth level - is at the State level and only one-third is at the Commonwealth level. This matter has a far more harsh impact on the rural industries than anywhere else. Yet the Government has blithely accepted a palliative measure. I say again that the Australian Labor Party did not oppose the Bill. What it opposed was the Government's failure to face up to the fundamental issues involved here. 
You may know better than I do, but you should convert your colleagues behind you. If you have differences I am willing to ferment them and I submit that the differences exist. But while honourable members play out their charades on the political scene the small farmers - there are more small farmers than there are big farmers - are the ones who are vulnerable in the process. I do not deny that this measure gives minor relief. 
No, it gives very little relief. All I am saying is that the Government is concentrating on those who are about to die when it ought to be doing something to enable them to survive. If the Government took a realistic view - this is all I want to impress upon the House - it would see that it has failed to realise what the real issues are. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When was the body known as the Interim Council, Australian National Gallery appointed. 
When did this Council last meet. 
Did the Council recommend to the Government the appointment of a Director of the proposed National Gallery. 
Has such an appointment yet been made. 
If not, when is it proposed to make such an appointment. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many and what types of dogs have been exported from Australia to Japan in each of the last 3 years. 
There are 4 Bills before the House and perhaps 1 can briefly say that 2 of them relate to the financial year ended 30th June 1970 and 2 of them relate to Supply for the financial year that will begin on 1st July 1970 and continue until 30th June 1971. There are 2 sets each of 2 Bills because what are called normal annual appropriations appear in 1 Bill and capital works appear in the second. As far as Bills for this financial year are concerned, inevitably some expenditure cannot be anticipated at the time a Budget is drawn or at least some purpose cannot be foreseen. Sometimes expenditure exceeds the original appropriation; sometimes a new appropriation has to be made. In Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1969-70 a sum of about S90m is being sought. In Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1969-70 a sum of S34m is being sought. The other 2 measures provide Supply for the period 1st July 1970 to the end of November 1970 because the Budget session will not start until August and, as we know, it is necessary to continue government in that time. 
Nevertheless measures such as these give us the opportunity to exam ne the impact of Government finance on the economy. This year the Budget provided for expenditure in the region of $7,000m, which is more than a quarter of the gross national product, and States and local government authorities between them will spend a sum or raise taxes themselves of another $ 1,300m or S 1,400m. It will be seen therefore that government is very big business in terms of total activity in the economy. I th think that it is a bit doubtful these days whether the Budget balances the economy or whether, in the final analysis, the economy balances the Budget. 
A curious sort of method is adopted now of presenting the Budget accounts in more ways than 1. At 1 time, these accounts were strictly cash only. Technically, of course, that is what is of concern to this House. Nevertheless, for analytical purposes, it is useful to present the Budget in what is known as the national accounts form to show the impact of total expenditure on the part of the Commonwealth Government in an overall context. 
I wish to say something this afternoon about what, for want of a better term, might be called the state of the economy. I must say that 1 find myself in substantial fundamental disagreement with some of the measures that have been taken recently supposedly to guide the economy. In particular, I refer to the recent increases in interest rates. These increases have begun to work right through now. A few days ago, when a Commonwealth loan was being sought, the rate of interest being offered for long term Commonwealth securities was  1%.  I suppose that one could hark to other times. I note that, at 1 stage during the term in office of this Government, the bond rate was as low as 3i%. So, in approximately a 20-year period there has been a considerable increase in what is known as the gilt edged interest rate. 
Of course, people can obtain an interest rate of 7% on government securities which are described as being gilt edged although I would think that some people would be a little dubious about that description. I refer to those people who invested in a loan some time ago when the interest rate was under 6%. Some of these securities were sought as far ahead, I think, as the year 2005. The details of this loan are given in the latest issue of the 'Treasury Information Bulletin' for April of this year. This shows that, as far as the previous government loan was concerned, the long term interest rate was approximately 6%. So, anybody who bought those bonds and who has to sell them faces quite a serious drop in the amount that will be received. 
I think that, in some respects, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  is in some bother at the moment about managing the refinancing and extending of the national debt. The other day I read somewhere a figure of $ 1,000m in this respect. Approximately $ 1,000m comes up for conversion in the very short term period that is ahead of us. One of the difficulties in recent years is that, because the short term rates have been so attractive, the tendency has been for people to go into short terms securities rather than long term ones. At page 14 of this 'Treasury Information Bulletin' we read that for the Commonwealth loan on 11 th February 1970 - that is, the last loan offered before the one which is now current - an interest rate of 5.6% was offered for a loan maturing in July 1971, an interest rate of 5.75% for a loan maturing 2 years later in May 1973, an interest rate of 5.9% for one maturing in July 1977, an interest rate of 6% for a loan maturing in October 1991 and an interest rate of 6% for a loan maturing on 5th July 2005. 
The 'Treasury Information Bulletin' shows how that loan was subscribed to the extent of $209m. We read that $116m, which is more than half of the amount raised, was in the short term. That is, it falls due by July 1971. Another $42m was taken in the next short term to May 1973. Nearly $30m was subscribed for the loan maturing in 1977. There were virtually no takers for the long terms loans. I think that a shade under $&gt;2m was subscribed for the loan maturing in July 2005. It seems to me that one of the difficulties in the Australian economy has been that the short term rates of interest have been too high and too close to what the long term rates of interest are. A degree of flexibility has not been given. I believe that this flexibility is necessary in the Australian economy to manage the national debt. 
Each year, when the October issue of the Treasury Information Bulletin' is published, details are given as to how Commonwealth securities on issue are held. I quote from page 15 of the October 1969 issue of the Treasury Information Bulletin'. At the end of June 1969, Commonwealth securities redeemable in Australia aggregrated $9.736m. Only approximately fi ,100m - that is about one-ninth of the total - was actually held by what might be called by individuals as apart from institutions of I kind and another - government, financial, and so on. Even of the $l,118m in the hands of other holders, $680m was held in the form of special bonds, which is a form of security tailored for individual investors. So. at least the small man in the community is really not significant when it comes to loan flotations. 
I have said before in this House that where the Government is confronted with the major part of its loan holdings - and it has some directed powers of compulsion in some directions; it has some powers of gentle persuasion via tax concessions in another direction - in my view that Government is well equipped as the seller of those securities and also as the buyer sometimes through the Reserve Bank to set a rate of interest that could be lower than is current yet still be acceptable by financial institutions. That is why, for our part, we are irked by the decision taken recently to increase bank interest rates in the community. 
It is our view that this increase in interest rates will have very little impact on some sections of the community but that it will have tremendous impact upon those who in no way are responsible for what might be called the speculative upsurge in demand. I think that my colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  has pointed out in recent times in housing debates that it does not seem much when the Government says that the rate of interest has gone up from 7% to 8%. But this increase makes a considerable difference to somebody on a moderate income who is required to finance a mortgage at 8% instead of at 7%. Of course the result of rationing the purse is always to force out certain people who, in a sense, may be called the most deserving section of-the community. 
I always read with much interest the papers that are written by the Treasurer and delivered at various learned and nonlearned associations throughout the community. With all respect to my friends in the Australian Finance Conference, I do not know whether they regard themselves as a learned group or possibly a shrewd group but on 27th April 1970 the Treasurer delivered an address at the annual meeting of. that Conference and he entitled it 'The Domestic Economy'. He observed, I think quite wisely, to the finance group that to some extent the rapid growth in business being written by finance companies reflects the fact that the main direct effects of monetary restraint tend to fall on the banking system. Later in his address he pointed out that the banking system supplies less credit now than was the case 15 or even 10 years ago and that the group that has made the most significant increase relatively has been the finance group. He observed that less than half of the balance outstanding to finance companies relates to instalment credit for retail sales. They have gone out of just being the suppliers of credit for automobiles, refrigerators, washing machines and so forth and have gone into such fields as land sales on quite a broad scale. The Treasurer at least acknowledges that when be does put monetary restraint upon the economy via the interest rate, to some extent there is a large section that is outside that restraint. He has gone further and has said that within the ambit of monetary restraint the harshest impact is felt by those least entitled to bear it. 
Towards the end of his address he gave what 1 suppose he would call economic indicators. He listed retail sales, new motor vehicle registrations, dwelling approvals, non-residential building approvals, private investment in plant and equipment and public sector spending. In relation to dwelling approvals he said: 
Meanwhile at the end of December 1969 there were 69,000 dwellings under construction, 12% more than a year earlier. 
In the paragraph immediately following that he said that non-residential building approvals are running 45% above the level of a year earlier in the March quarter. I submit again that the effect  of  the monetary restraint will be to cause a much heavier impact in the field  of  dwelling approvals where the upsurge is only 12%. but that very little impact will be experienced in the field of non-residential building approvals because, after all, the interest paid by a business concern that is financing a building is a tax deduction. Even if we increased the interest rate by 4%, because a company is involved and it is paying company tax at the rate of 45c in the SI, the additional burden is in the region of only  i%,  again indicating the uneven impact of monetary policy. 
Honourable members should read the Treasury bulletins, the most recent of which was published a few days ago and relates to the economic situation at the end of March 1970. We could not get much closer to current circumstances than the quarter ended in March 1970. lt would seem to me that some rather contradictory statistics are contained in this bulletin. They seem to suggest that trying to curb interest rates on home dwelling is scarcely the way to combat any disturbance, if inflationary disturbances are prevalent. I want to quote 1 or 2 of these statistics because in some respects they are rather illuminating. On page 11 is a table entitled 'Financing the Deficit'. It shows what has happened to overall Government finance in the 9 months from July 1969 to March 1970 as against the same 9 months for 1968-69. The interesting point of difference is the item 'Net change in Treasury notes on issue'. It shows that for the 9 months in 1968-69 the amount on issue was S253m. For the same 9 months in 1969-70 there is an item of $492m from which the sum of $250m is subtracted. A footnote indicates that Treasury notes to the extent of $250m were issued by the Commonwealth Government against the payment of a similar sum of $250m by the Reserve Bank to the Australian Wheat Board. Of course that payment of $250m to the Wheat Board is to finance wheat that has been produced but which cannot be sold. 
In the early part of the Treasury bulletin occurs a rather curious phrase. I quote from the introduction on pages 1 and 2: 
It has to be borne in mind that the large proportion of both rural and mining production which is exported does not provide an offset to growing domestic demand. 
I have marked this quotation with a query because, candidly, I am somewhat per plexed as to what is meant. I think it means that we export wool, wheat, butter, sugar, copper, zinc and so on - goods that we have distributed and on which expenditure has been made within Australia for wages and so forth - but those goods are not available for consumption in Australia. I would hope that they would help to pay for our imports. Surely what we export conditions what we are able to import. I find it a rather curious piece of philosophising to say that we should do everything with the right hand and to forget that we have a left hand. In some respects this is only too true of much of the Government's action at present. It is prepared to pay - I am not objecting to this particular method of financing - $250m into the pockets of people while there is no equivalent supply of goods coming onto the domestic market. It is to be hoped that we will sell the produce eventually. 
A lot of things could be done with it. But all I submit is that it is rough justice to suggest that it is not inflationary and to solve what the Government calls an inflation problem by putting the penalty on other people altogether by increasing the impact of the interest rate. 
I have no doubt that honourable members from time to time read the economic publications that are available in the Parliament Library. It is surprising to find the popular levels at which economic thinking is made available to the public these days. In American journals such as 'Times', 'Business Week' and 'Newsweek' a lot of mention has been made in latter days of a conservative American who, oddly enough, seems to have some fairly radical views about finance. The gentleman to whom I refer is Professor Milton Friedman. I have no doubt that the Treasurer knows who Professor Friedman is. Honourable members may obtain from the Parliament Library a copy of the 'American Economic Review' of March 1968 in which appears an article entitled 'The Role of Monetary Policy' by Milton Friedman, which is an account of the Presidential address delivered at the 18th annual meeting of the American Economic Association in Washington on 29th December 1967. On page 14. towards the end of the article, he states: 
The first requirement is thai the monetary policy should guide itself by magnitudes that it can control, nol by ones that il cannot control. 
He is talking in the context of the American reserve system. He goes on: 
If, as the authority has often done, it lakes interest rates for the current employment percentage as the immediate criterion of policy, it will be like a space vehicle that has taken a fix on the wrong star. No matter how sensitive and sophisticated its guiding apparatus, the space vehicle will go astray. And so will the monetary authority. 
I submit that this is the situation that we may have reached in this country. Again I am fortified by another opinion, this time from a Canadian source. I would hope that some day we will get round to having in Australia a publication such as the sixth economic review by the Economic Council of Canada, which is the sort of body that the Vernon Committee of Economic Inquiry suggested would be useful in the Australian context. This publication which was prepared in September 1969 and which is entitled 'Perspective 1975' also makes some mention of the matter to which 1 have just referred. On page 1 59 it states: 
During the past year, considerable controversy has arisen in North America about the influence and effectiveness of monetary and fiscal policies as instruments of demand management. We have no doubts about the ultimate power and effectiveness of these policies when properly used. At the same time, we believe strongly that they are necessary, but by themselves insufficient, for achieving and maintaining high standards of performance in our economy. 
I submit that that is a very pertinent lesson for Australia. The monetary instrument should be used not on its own but in conjunction with fiscal policies. I want to say something more about fiscal policies in a moment because 1 think that unfortunately we have got ourselves into a situation in Australia where monetary policy is about the only weapon left available to us. As the Treasurer quite clearly underlined in his address to the Australian Finance Conference, monetary policy does not have the same impact on the total economy that it used to have. Therefore if it is to have any effectiveness it has to be rather brutally and crudely applied to that part of the economy which it can affect. Professor Friedman also pointed out some salutory lessons. He said: 
A second requirement of monetary policy is that the monetary authority avoid sharp swings in policy. In the past, monetary authorities have on occasion moved in the wrong direction - as in the episode of the Great Contraction that I have stressed. More frequently, they have moved in the right direction, albeit often too late, but have erred by moving loo far. 
With all respect to the Treasurer, I would submit that not only has he moved too late but he has moved too far. He should have read a little less gloomily some of the trends that were evident enough in the quarterly figures for the national income and which it seems to me are pointed out in his own Treasury bulletin. One of the things that intrigued me is the statement on page 16 of the April Treasury bulletin about the increase in the volume of money. Those who read Milton Friedman carefully will find that he suggests it is more important to regulate the volume of money than it is to regulate the interest rate. He suggests that there should be a regular increase in the volume of money of between 3% and 5% per annum, which in Australia would be between $500m and $600m. The Treasury bulletin points out that the increase in the volume of money in the 3 months to March 1970 was $172m, which compares with an increase of $295 in in the corresponding months a year earlier. There was not the same increase in the volume of money from 1st January to the end of March 1970 as there had been from 1 st January to the end of March 1 969. The writer of the Treasury bulletin goes on to give further reasons: 
The reason behind the smaller increase in the volume of money this year were the much smaller rise in the Rural Credits advances- 
I have no doubt that my friends in the Country Party know why that has occurred too. The bulletin goes on: 
. in the more recent period and the smaller rise in the Reserve Bank's holdings of gold and foreign exchange compared with the March quarter of 1969. 
On page 17, for those who want to read the lesson tn full, there is an analysis of changes in bank liquidity and money, which shows that the upsurge was not as great in the first 3 months of this year as it was in the first 3 months of last year. I am disturbed to some extent about the analyses that are made of the total trend in the economy. Sometimes I yearn for those blessed days when one had to make ones own estimate of the national income. Now it is done for you quarter by quarter and comparators are made in every field. I think at times we are inclined to be puzzled by too much information. It seems to me that what has disturbed the Treasurer is what he calls the 'rise in the average weekly wage'. I think he said in his address to the Australian Finance Conference that it is expected to go up by 9% this year. Again 1 point out that every year in the last 10 years there has been an average increase in prices of  2i%.  In some years the increase has been a little more and some years it has been a little less. Over the same period average weekly earnings have risen by Si% each year. This at least teaches us one lesson, and that is that an  8i%  increase in wages has not led to an  8i%  increase in prices. 
Some people curiously suggest at times that wages are the sole cause of price increases. The increase in average weekly earnings has been 84%; the increase in prices has been only 24%. This situation has continued in Australia under the present Treasurer, under the previous Treasurer and under the late  Mr Holt  who was Treasurer prior to the other 2 incumbents of that office. Why should the Government suddenly get disturbed because this year wages will increase by 9%? I have asked this question categorically here before. In an economy where, according to the statistics, the majority of people are wage earners, how can the wage earner obtain his proper share of increased productivity, if prices do not fall - and it would be odd to find prices that have fallen in the Australian economy in recent years - unless his wage increases year by year at a minimum of, say, 64% to 7%. He is then getting only his share of the increase in productivity. 
Of course the real evil of inflation is that it benefits a few and robs a lot. Not everybody is able to redress his own situation. People on a fixed income, such as pensioners and superannuitants, have no automatic means of insulating themselves against the effects of inflation. That is why sometimes governments have to intervene by fiscal policy and transfer payments. That is the task of government. One of the reasons that we work almost with both hands behind our back in the Australian context is because, as I have said, we rely on monetary policy. But fiscal policy cannot be effective. All that is effective about fiscal policy is that the Government collects what has been described in this American literature as fiscal dividend. As prices rise, if scales of taxation are not altered progressively people automatically pay a higher proportion of their income to the Treasury. This is inevitable in such a system, unless the scale is periodically altered. I submit that a scale of progression which operated in 1954 and which collects well over half the taxes of companies and individuals - I am dealing more particularly with individuals - cannot be equitable in 1969. I do not thing there is any argument about that. 
If the average rate of inflation is 24% there is a case for altering the taxation structure every 4 or 5 years. Our taxation structure has not been altered for 15 years. There have been some minor adjustments to family concessions, but if they are related to price increases they are not worth as much now as they were originally. They distort the scale even further. Then if inequity is bowed into the system by allowing deductions for life assurance at the rate of $1,200 per annum - almost $25 a week - how many people in the community could avail themselves of it? This is the sort of review that is needed. There has been talk about it now for 2 years at least. The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  said 2 Budgets ago that he would like to reform the tax structure, but he felt the time was not propitious. If inbuilt devices in the progressive tax scale are to be relied on to control inflation, a great deal of injustice will be done to people in the lower income groups, and particularly the family taxpayer. This is to say nothing at all about the unequal impact of indirect as well as direct taxation. 
Now is the time for taxation reform. It cannot be delayed on the ground that it would be too inflationary to do it. The same amount of tax can be collected but it could be distributed very much differently among various sections of the community. I have made calculations before and I shall certainly quote them again when the tax rates are being dealt with later this year. Let us take as an example an average wage earner on $72 or $73 a week with a wife and 2 children. If the Treasurer is too horrified about the likely impact of his wage being increased by 9%, let us have a look at the tax scale and see what he is paying in income tax. He is paying anything from $3 to $5 per week more than he should. Maybe if the Government did justice to people in this group through tax concessions it might not have to worry so much about what it thinks crf the horrendous impact of inflation. 
I have taken this opportunity to explain and expatiate on certain aspects of the economy. Perhaps I can sum up by saying that it is the opinion of the Opposition that the Government and the Treasurer, through the Reserve Bank, have acted wrongly in increasing interest rates recently. If they had looked at other signs available to them they might have seen that there is not quite the upsurge that they thought in certain directions. In any event, it is crude and cruel to solve the demand in building by leaving untouched the activity which occurs in the non-dwelling section which is more than half of the total activity and confining the impact to the dwelling section where most of the people are on average incomes - a little bit above or a little bit less than I have mentioned. I am referring to the sort of people who have just married and who want a modern home which could be financed from their existing income. With the impact of the last  i%  increase, the previous  i%  increase and the increase a couple of years ago, they are paying something like  li%  more now for mortgage finance. If we look at the statistics we will see that this adds something like 25% to the weekly cost of financing a mortgage if the amount is $8,000 to $10,000. We do not believe they should be the victims of the failure of the Government to take the right steps in other directions. We have voiced our protest here on 2 occasions already. I simply underline it here again this afternoon. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill which makes certain amendments to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act. The Bill will enable EPIC, as it is called, to cover the external Territories of the Commonwealth, in particular Papua and New Guinea. It seeks to increase the maximum contingent liability - that is, the total amount for which it is liable, in certain circumstances, under its various policies - by SI 00m in respect of contracts of payments, insurance and other guarantees. The Bill also seeks to increase by $60m the contingent liability on insurance of Australian investments overseas. As a fourth proposition it seeks to increase the maximum staff salary that can be paid without ministerial authority. 
As I have indicated, the Opposition regards these as necessary enough improvements to this quite significant legislation. In introducing it the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  made what was in some respects a rather peculiar speech. Not only did he extol the virtues of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation but he very kindly branded in advance a measure that had not even come before the House, that is, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. In this debate 1 do not want to proceed upon the second line. I said to the Minister at the time that I felt he should have moved the adjournment on both debates. At least we will have an opportunity next week to talk about the merits of the Australian Industry Development Corporation which can now be judged by everybody. I do not want to say anything further about that at this stage. The Opposition at least has always looked favourably upon the institution about which we are talking, the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. Again the Minister for Trade and Industry was at great pains to underline that before this institution had been born some 14 years ago there had been considerable resistance in certain quarters to its formation. I would like to place on record the fact that those objections did not come from this side of the House. Candidly we would have liked the Export Payments Insurance Corporation to have gone even further than it did. Since it began a considerable number of amendments have been made to the legislation that established it, mainly increasing the amounts of contingent liability. 
I would like to take some figures from the 1969 annual report of this Corporation. The Corporation was created by legislation in 1956: so it is almost 14 years now since it began. The number of policies taken out in the course of the year is still relatively small, lt is a fairly select band of people that has recourse to the Corporation and later I will say something about extending its ambit. On page 6 of its 1969 annual report the face values and number of policies are shown. For the year ended June 1969 there were in total 740 policies. Of these. 367 - slightly less than half - were for amounts under $100,000; 224 were for amounts between $100,000 and $400,000; 122 were for amounts between $400,000 and $2m; and 27 were for amounts exceeding $2m. 
When we look at the face value of the operations we see that although there were 367 policies - nearly one-half of the total transactions - in the first group I mentioned, they accounted for only $12,686,000 out of a total face value of $298m or near enough to S300m. They were a very minor part of the total. But when we lake the contracts for amounts over $2m - there are only 27 of them - we see that they accounted for a face value of $13 Im or almost half of the value of all contracts that were undertaken during the year. So at least to some exporters these contracts are of considerable significance. On page 7 of the report there is a break-down of the nature of the exports that are insured. Of a total face value of $298.8m, $84. lm, or more than a quarter of the amount, is for greasy wool, $43.9m is for processed wool and $20. 6m is for dairy products. So in aggregate half of the contracts that arc insured are in respect of (he handling of those prime items of export trade, wool and dairy products. 
In an article headed 'Finance for Exports', appearing on page 424 of the December 1969 volume of the Bank of England Quarterly Bulletin' - the most recent available - a very comprehensive history of export payments insurance is given, lt is conducted in Great Britain by an organisation known as the Export Credits Guarantee Department. The article says: 
Because most export contracts are won in the face of international competition, including competition on credit terms, post-shipment finance may have to be provided by the exporting country. 
That is the situation that brings these organisations into being. We can get a lot of trade overseas provided wc make the arrangements for our own self-finance, at least internal, rather than expecting to bc paid immediately by the person to whom we sell. The article continues: 
If the United Kingdom's experience can be taken as n guide, most of this finance is of a short term nature but the United Kingdom, like other countries exporting capita! goods, has in recent years provided an increasing amount of medium and long-term finance. 
I would suggest that the experience of the United Kingdom is also becoming the experience of Australia in this field. It is not so much that finance is required for the majority of our exports. If one takes into account that last year Australia's total export trade was in the region of $3,400m - certainly over $3,000m - and the value of contracts covered by export insurance was in the region of S300m or about onetenth, it is seen that only a marginal amount of trade is covered in this way. Nevertheless that marginal amount is significant. 
If Australia in the years ahead is to strengthen its internal economy and play its part in world economy it has to diversify its export trade. The fields that perhaps have been neglected up to date include exports of capital goods as distinct from what might be called consumer goods and raw materials. Some years ago there was created in Australia an organisation known as the Australian Banks Export Refinance Corporation Ltd. It has been in operation now for 5 years. I want to quote one or two passages from the fourth and fifth annual reports of that body - a consortium I suppose it is called these days - which was formed among the banks. The proprietor members of it are the Australian and New Zealand Bank Limited, the Bank of Adelaide, the Bank of New South Wales, the Commercial Bank of Australia Limited, the Commerical Banking Company of Sydney Limited, the Commonwealth Trading Bank, the English Scottish and Australian Bank Limited and the National Bank of Australasia Limited. All of what are called the private trading banks and the Commonwealth Trading Bank are members of this Corporation. In its fourth annual report on page 10 under the heading 'Credit Terms in International Trade', the Corporation notes: 
In some circumstances, the banks, . . . 
That is, the proprietor members:  with the backing of the Australian Banks' Export Re-Finance Corporation, have in fact agreed to provide post-shipment credits for periods of up to 10 years. 
That is long term finance as against short term finance. We all know that banks by and large regard themselves as providers of short-term credit rather than long-term credit. I am sure that my colleague, the former banker, will agree with me that banking science can no longer be summed up in the simple proposition that the mark of a good banker is that he can tell the difference between a mortgage and a bill of exchange. It is a much more sophisticated and complicated proposition nowadays. The article continues: 
The level of exports which rests on the provision of medium- or long-term credit to overseas buyers is a relatively small part of the total Australian export structure. However, as more Australian manufacturers are attracted into this field by the export facilities and incentives provided, requirements for this type of finance will undoubtedly increase. 
In the last available annual report that organisation underlines that point even more: 
At the end of nearly 5 years of the Corporation's operation, it is apparent that use of its facilities is quickening, which points to increasing success of exporters in the highly competitive overseas markets for capital goods. 
The resources of the Corporation are available to banks which are providing medium to longterm finance for exports of a capital nature, and ensures that finance is not a limiting factor in the development of that field. 
The level of exports which requires provision of medium or long-term credit to foreign buyers is a relatively small part . . . 
That repeats what was said in the annual report of the previous year. The report continues: 
However, as more manufacturers are attracted into this area by the facilities and incentives provided, requirements for this type of finance should increase, although any expansion in the scale of exports of capital goods is likely to be intermittent due to lack of continuous opportunities in individual export markets. 
Perhaps this points to a need to widen the scope and also to increase the technical and know-how resources that are available to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. I read an interesting article the other day in a Canadian publication, the Bank of Montreal's 'Business Review' issue of 27th June 1969. It stated that it had been decided to replace ECIC - that is, the Export Credit Insurance Corporation - by a new organisation to be called the Export Development Corporation - the EDC - which has been given a far wider scope and flexibility to enable it to respond effectively to the changing needs of exporters. I suggest that that is the kind of development which is necessary also in Australia. The proposition of creating the Industry Development Corporation is an interesting one but I submit that there may equally be a need to graft something on to EPIC in Australia as was done to EC1C in (be case of Canada to turn it into an export development corporation that will have available to it wider statistical information and resources of skill, knowhow and experience to explore this very significant development which has to be expanded by Australia in the years that lie ahead. 
We heard this afternoon from the Minister for Trade and Industry during question time an implied indication that there was no doubt that the buyers of Australian wool were far better organised than the sellers of Australian wool. I think that equally sometimes the exporters of Australia are not as well organised as they can be. In fact, in some respects of course there is no direct incentive for most firms to export at all; at least not yet. That may be a circumstance that is ahead of us and 1 do not want to overlook the very important role that has been played in Australia over the years by that body known as the Export Development Council. That is an organisation of commercial and business people for the promotion of Australian trade overseas. Nevertheless, there is not much doubt at the moment that as long as there is an assured market at home there will not be any great enthusiasm on the part of people who might be able to export to seek export markets. 
It is true, I suppose, that on balance Australia does have to export to survive, but we have tended to rely in the past upon certain staples. One example is wool but they are basically primary products. In recent times we have gone into the field of minerals. Using the field of minerals as an example it does seem that instead of the problem being treated as a whole there is a tendency for individual exporters to get into the hands of fairly well organised buying groups overseas. It seems in some respects that Australia is still at a great disadvantage in this matter, particularly in its trade with Japan. If one reads - as I think one has to these days - something about the structure of the Japanese economy, one sees that there is not any doubt that the Ministry of Trade in that country plays a very much stronger role in co-ordinating the activities of its importers than does the Australian Department of Trade and Industry in coordinating the activities of our exporters. I do not know how long that situation can continue to exist. It may be that the Minister for Trade and Industry thinks that this is one of the roles that might well be taken under the wing of the Industry Development Corporation, and wc will have an opportunity to look at that later on. But I do commend to the Minister and to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  the experience in Canada where instead of just looking at this matter from the point of view of an insurance corporation, there has been a tendency to look at it in terms of expanding the exports that it is hoped to insure. The Bank of Montreal's Business Review' states: 
One of the most interesting new developments is the creation of facilities to insure Canadian investments. . . . 
We have that already in this country and one of the purposes of this measure is to increase the contingent liability backing that. The article continues:   . . in lesser-developed countries against such political risks as war, insurrection or revolution, expropriation or confiscation, and prohibitions against the repatriation of earnings or capital . . . 
To some extent some of those measures, if not all of them, are covered by the special risks insurance that is transacted by EPIC. As the Minister indicated when introducing this Bill, one of the principal things he has in mind is to allow the Corporation's writ to run as far as trade with Papua and New Guinea is concerned and, in particular, the development of the copper proposition in Bougainville. Again, I would imagine that there is in mind the export of capital machinery from Australia to assist in that venture. I suggest that that is a worthy objective. It should also be increasingly pursued in respect of our other near neighbour, Indonesia. I am one who always believes th:tt I effective form of defence of a country is to build better relations with neighbours and we are more likely to have better relations with our neighbours if they feel that we are assisting them with know-how and other facilities which we have but they have not. This is particularly true of Indonesia which is at a stage where it must have large sums of money invested in capital undertakings. It may well be that Australian business is in the position to supply many of these capital needs. No longer can we think of our export trade only in terms of primary production and the great new hope - minerals. I think we should also be expanding our export of manufactures, particularly our export of manufactured capital equipment that will enable the countries to which it goes to diversify their economies. We are well placed in this part of the world from the point of view of numbers of customers except that in banker's terms those customers do not yet have enough money in their pockets to be good propositions. They will get more money in their pockets only as the levels of their economies are lifted, and we are in a very good position to help them. 
As I have indicated, we offer no objection to the passage of this measure. I congratulate EPIC on the work it has performed from year to year. Each year its annual report has been a record of greater success than in the preceding year. That this should be so is a tribute to the management and to the skill of the staff. I would hope that we take a longer term view in the decade now beginning and diversify the nature of our exports. Perhaps we should think in teems of financing items the payment for which might take as long as 10 years. The banking mechanism may have to be adapted to allow this to be done. For instance, in the United Kingdom model certain funds are not counted in considering the liquidity of the banks if they are lent on a long term basis to encourage export trade. I would commend that sort of expansion to the Government. The body in Great Britain is the Export Credits Guarantee Department. There is wide co-operation in the United Kingdom between that Department and the Board of Trade, which is the equivalent of our Department of Trade and Industry. I have no doubt that there are very happy and fruitful relations in Australia between EPIC and the Department of Trade and Industry but it seems to me that as yet we do not have as much enthusiasm in this country for exports as such as seems to exist in some of the older economies, particularly those of Europe and that of the United States. But if Australia is to survive as an expanding economy this is the way in which our trade must improve in the years ahead. 
-The Metric Conversion Bill is described by its title: 
To facilitate the adoption in Australia and in certain Territories of the Commonwealth of the Metric System of Measurement, and for that purpose to establish a Metric Conversion Board. 
The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in introducing the Bill said: 
This Bill is the first of a number of legislative and administrative steps which will be needed to facilitate and encourage orderly and efficient conversion to the metric system. 
He said that he proposed shortly to hold meetings of representative State Ministers. Clause 5 of the Bill states: 
The object of this Act is to bring about progressively the use of the metric system of measurement in Australia as the sole system of measurement of physical quantities. 
In other words, it will substitute for what might be described as the foot, pound and gallon system . the metre, kilogramme and litre system. The introduction of the measure follows a recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures which agreed to the system. I understand, from reading about these measures, that New Zealand, Australia, Canada and the United States of America are the only countries that have not adopted the metric system. Almost simultaneously with Australia, Canada and New Zealand have decided to convert to the metric system. 
All that the Bill proposes to do is to set up a board which will investigate the system over a long period of time. The Minister suggested that it may be as long as 6 to 10 years before there is a complete conversion to the metric system. In some respects it is a different sort of proposition from the great change that took place in Australia in 1966 from the £ s. d. system to the dollars and cents system. I must confess that when the decimal currency system was mooted I was sceptical. I still am sceptical, candidly, about the advantages that are supposed to have flowed from the changeover. I doubt whether Australia, as an operative economy, would have been any worse off if it were using pounds, shillings and pence instead of dollars and cents. However this act has taken place and it is not much good suggesting reversion. 
There are a great deal fewer complications involved in changing our currency to the decimal system than are involved in converting weights, lengths and quantities to the metric system. The scales of conversion are very much more complicated than was the case in respect of currency. The only real difficulty involved in the currency conversion was changing from the unit of 12 pennies equalled 1 shilling to 10c equalled 1 shilling. I refer the House to the Manufacturers Bulletin' of 16th March 1970 in which is published the equivalents of the British to the metric and the metric to the British for mass, length and area. It will not be quite as easy for the general public to become aware of the equivalents in the case of metrication, as it is called, as it was in the currency conversion I shall refer to the equivalents for British to metric rather than the reverse, from metric to British. Such odd units as a grain and a dram are used. I doubt whether people other than chemists know what a grain and a dram are. When we get down to the one unit we do recognise, the ounce, according to this document 1 ounce is equivalent to 28.3495231 grammes. This is not very easy to understand. In the case of conversion from 1 penny to 1 cent it was 5 over 6 or 6 over 5, whichever way you were looking at the problem. But in the case of 1 ounce the conversion represents near enough to  28i  grammes. In the case of 1 lb the equivalent is 453.59237 grammes. The equivalent of the British ton is 1.0160469088 tonne. Certainly these figures represent a great degree of exactness but it is more difficult to convert 1 ton than to use a formula like 5 over 6. One ton is equivalent to 1.0160469088 tonne- which is taking the decimal point to 10 places. A short ton - which I take it is 2,000 lb - is equivalent to 907.18474 kilogrammes. 
So far as length is concerned, by reason of participation in events such as the Olympic Games, I think we are all aware that 1 yard is equivalent to 39.37 inches. We in Australia know that a person is doing very well if he can run 100 yards in something under 10 seconds. The world record for running 100 metres is, at the moment, I think, something less than 10 seconds. You have to run pretty fast to achieve this because 100 metres is about 109 yards. 
According to this bulletin 1 yard is equivalent to .9144 metre. Looking at it from the other direction, 1 metre is 1.09361 yards. 
Similarly, when we come to area measurements, we are used to thinking in terms of acres. The acre is our basic measurement. One acre is equivalent to 0.404686 hectare. I suppose this is near enough to saying that 1 acre is equivalent to 4/ 10ths hectare. But the figure is not quite so exact if we want to sell a parcel of land of 1,000 acres. The equivalent for 1 square mile is 2.589988 square kilometres. I do not want to mention the equivalents for metric to British because the position gets even worse. 
I refer now to measurements of volume. In this respect we are concerned about what we get in the daily bottle of milk or with what some people consume at certain times in terms of pints of certain well known liquors. One gallon, which is 277.42 cubic inches, is equivalent to 4.54609 litres. One pint, which is 34.6774 cubic inches, is equivalment to .56826125 litre. 
I am suggesting that there will be many more educational problems involved in the conversion to the metric system than was the case when we made the relatively simple conversion in our currency. The Opposition is not opposing this measure because it seems that there is universal agreement in this respect. I have with me a number of quotations from documents such as 'Canberra Comments' of January 1970 which contains an article headed 'Metric conversion welcomed by business'. The 'Metal Trades Journal' of March 1970 contains an article headed 'Australia to adopt metric system of weights and measures', and seems to suggest approval. 
The Minister for Education and Science mentioned in the course of his second reading speech that this conversion would be a relatively long term process. He suggested that there would not be a special day, as there was a 'D' for conversion to decimal currency, when suddenly we would change from the old system to the new. He said that this conversion would take place over a long period of time. I think quite a number of anticipations of the change already have taken place. Most honourable members know that medicine glasses are now calibrated in gramme and milligrammes rather than ounces. I think most of us still adopt the rough measure of a teaspoon or a tablespoon. Recently the Government released 'Statutory Rules - 1970 - No. 40' relating to Regulations. Under the Weights and Measures (National Standards) Act 1960-66 in which was quoted the table of related values of temperatures on the 1948 scale. I think most honourable members who did physics or chemistry, or whatever the subject was called in those very neutral days of 20 years ago before atomic physics loomed on the horizon, used the formula 5/9ths minus 32 or 5/9ths plus 32 to convert from centigrade to fahrenheit. At least all these things will be simplified for the students of the future. 
Nevertheless 1 do envisage that a lot more difficulties will be involved in the process of conversion to the metric system of weights and measures. Probably it is a fait accompli in other countries with the exception of the United States of America. I understand that the United States is tending to bow to the inevitable and is setting up a committee of inquiry with a view to converting from the old foot-pound-gallon, as I describe it, to the metric system. 1 have with me another document entitled 'Australian Commercial Fishing and Marketing' of March 1970 which contains an article headed 'Metres take over from fathoms and feet'. So even the tide tables will include a staff card book carrying conversion tables from fathoms to metres and metres to fathoms. It seems that this sort of thing is inevitable. It is regarded as a sign of progress. 1 am one who believes that the more unity we can get into international relations the better it will be. I hope that some day we will even have uniformity of language. This would be pretty difficult to achieve, but at least at present we can talk in common terms in relation to currencies that can be converted on a decimal basis. It is also accepted that we travel so many kilometres instead of miles between Melbourne and Sydney. When we go to Europe I think most of us use the rough conversion of 5 over 8, a kilometre being five-eighths of a mile. To convert miles into kilometres one multiplies 8 over 5. To convert kilometres to miles one mulitplies 5 over 8. It is not long before one begins to understand. 
Nevertheless, I think the Government has a much more difficult educational programme in front of it, in regard to metric conversion, or metrication, as it is called, than was the case with the currency conversion. One other difference, of course, is that whereas compensation was paid to people in respect of the changes to decimal currency, no compensation is being paid in respect of conversion to the metric system. I cannot say that I am against that policy. If the system is supposed to have advantages those who receive the advantages should be willing to pay for them. As the Minister said, in terms of conversion, I think a lot of it will be covered by depreciation and obsolescence. If it is known that the plant at a particular place has to be converted over a period of 6 to 8 years - that is, converting from pounds to kilogrammes or from gallons to litres - at least it is possible to plan ahead accordingly. I do not think there is much more that I need say about this subject, except that at this stage it is merely to be considered by a board. I doubt whether there will be any retracing of steps. I think the decision has been made to convert to the metric system. I find* it hard to believe that the Board when it meets will decide that on balance it is better to leave things as they stand. However, I suppose technically it is within the competence of the Board so to determine. But it seems to me that the die is cast, as it were, and we will move forward to this new system. 
One example usually given and which my friend, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  quoted against me recently, is that arithmetic will be much more easily taught under the metric system or under the decimal system than previously. Candidly, I still have doubts about that. An arithmetical problem still has to be calculated whether it is expressed in terms of decimals or duo-decimals. I do not think it matters what the system is. In this great advanced age that we are supposed to be living in - the age of the computer - the computer does not calculate in decimals. It operates on what is called a binary system, a system which operates on the basis of additions of two. Some advanced American scientists claim - and I do not know who will prove them wrong until about the year 2050  -  that ultimately the whole world will revert to the duo-decimal system rather than to the decimal system by reason of the mechanisation of the computer. I mention that only as a kind of cautionary tale to show that we can all be wise in 1970 when looking ahead to 1980. But nobody can look forward from 1980 to 2050. However, in terms of our limited knowledge at this stage we of the Opposition offer no objection to setting up the Metric Conversion Board. 
1 desire to address a question to the Minister for Immigration. On what grounds has  Dr Ernest  Mandel, a well known Belgian scholar, been refused entry to Australia?  Dr Mandel  is a reputable historian and an expositor, in the modern sense, of Marxian economics. He is able to travel freely throughout Europe, and I think this sort of ban makes Australia look ridiculous in the eyes of international groups. 
I hope that my friend, the honouralbe member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  does not regard me as a hyena. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  indicated, what is involved here at the moment is not the constitutionality or otherwise of the Commonwealth within and outside the 3-mile limit. It seems to me - the honourable member for Farrer, a former Cabinet Minister, underlined the fact - that 2 very important principles are involved here. I submit that they are important to members on both sides of the House. The first is the collective responsibility of a Cabinet. I have no doubt that it could be said that there is nothing very collective about the Government at the moment, and I submit that there is a great deal of irresponsibility in some directions. Collective responsibility is enshrined as part of the workability of a Cabinet system. 1 will say a little more about that subject in a moment. 
The second point that is involved, and which ought to be important to all honourable members, is the working relationship between the component parts of our federal system. Each of these matters is of considerable significance to this Parliament in a constitutional sense. I want to reinfoorce to some extent the idea of collective responsibility by quoting from a book entitled 'Cabinet Government' by  Sir Ivor  Jennings, which used to be the standard work on Cabinet government. In the edition published in 1961 the author goes back as far as the time of Lord Salisbury and says: 
It is only on the principle that absolute responsibility is undertaken by every member of the Cabinet who, after a decision is arrived at, remains a member of it, that the joint responsibility of Minister to Parliament can be upheld, and one of the most essential principles of parliamentary responsibility established. 
At all times the honourable member for Farrer was, in this consideration, a member of the Cabinet. He committed the Cabinet in the terms of his ministerial responsibility. I have read some of the correspondece but I have not had a great deal of time to digest it. The Prime Minister said in his statement today: 
On 30th July the Minister for National Development wrote to me. 
He said that he wished to write to the States and indicate that he was unable to hold a meeting before the one scheduled for February 1970. He also wished to write to them to tell them that the Commonwealth would not legislate unilaterally until there had been an opportunity to discuss fully and frankly the views he had expressed to them at the March meeting. 
Apparently nothing took place between 30th July and 18th August, a span of almost 3 weeks. The Prime Minister's statement continues: 
I replied on 18th August raising no objection to his writing to the States on the general matter of the meeting. However, I said 'I would want to avoid if at all possible a situation where the Commonwealth became committed to long drawn out discussion or consultation with the States on this matter. For this reason - 
I ask honourable members again to weigh the words because, as the honourable member for Farrer implied, it seems that one can almost put one's own meaning on words if it suits one's case - 
I would prefer that you eliminate from your proposed letter the suggestion that the Commonwealth will not legislate unilaterally until after the completion of full and frank discussions with the States on this matter.'  1 suggest that it was not mandatory but that the Prime Minister said he would prefer the Minister to eliminate certain suggestions from his proposed letter, ft seems clear enough to me that the former Minister made commitments as a responsible member of the Cabinet negotiating with the States, and he may not have been able to do simply what the Prime Minister said he would like to be done. The Prime Minister goes on further to say: 
I think the Minister fully understood that I did not want to give any assurance to the States that we would defer legislation. 
As 1 see it. the honourable member for Farrer suggested that he did not think the Prime Minister meant any such thing. It seems to me to be clear enough that the honourable member was still acting as a fully competent member of the Cabinet and, as such, the Cabinet collectively was responsible for actions that he took in his position as a Minister. 
A statement written as long ago as  Mr Joseph  Chamberlain's time on the subject of collective responsibility reads: 
Absolute frankness in our private relations and full discussion of all matters of common interest  . . the decisions freely arrived at should be loyally supported and considered as the decisions of the whole of the Government. 
It seems to me that here there were not the apparent inter-relationships within the Cabinet that there ought to have been. I suppose that reflects upon the efficiency of the Cabinet system as it has been carried out by the present Government. One cannot evade the constitutional situation that when a Minister is still a Minister and is acting within his department negotiating with people, he ought to have the full backing of his Cabinet. They are collectively responsible for what he has done. That seems to be the stand that has been taken by the honourable member for Farrer. He could have said, if he liked: 'If the Prime Minister thinks I was too stupid to understand the meaning of certain words, that is fair enough'. Nevertheless, the action took place. What has been hurt here, it seems, is the sense of proper relations between the Commonwealth and the States as part of a working federal system. Surely this sort of thing cannot be lightly breached. A federal system is always a difficult mechanism to work. It is becoming increasingly difficult in Australia to make it work by reason of the preponderant financial superiority of the Commonwealth. One of the most prolific writers on the subject of federalism is Professor Geoffrey Sawer of the Australian National University. He concedes that the only way we can maintain the system as a working institution is by means of what he calls co-operative federalism. 
To me co-operative federalism implies that there must be sympathy and understanding between the Commonwealth and the States, the other constituent parts of the federation. Surely this has been severely breached in this instance. I think the Government ought wisely to take the escape door which the ex-Minister has just, thrown open. Why not defer this whole matter and let it go back to the States. Let us see who has understood and who has misunderstood and then try to repair the breaches that have taken place between this Government, as the central government, and the various States about whether words mean certain things and whether certain promises were given or whether certain undertakings were implied. 
I should say that the law is commonsense in this particular instance. lt is a law that the Government is reluctant to invoke. 1 submit that another incident which happened in this chamber a few weeks aso could have been avoided if there had been a little flexibility and commonsense at the centre. I do not presume to go into the fine nuances of the meanings of words, as the Prime Minister did regarding the exMinister. I think every honourable member is impressed by the stand which has been taken by the ex-Minister. We might not have regarded him as the most brilliant member of the Cabinet, but personally I have always had a high regard for him. Nobody doubts the integrity of his action on this occasion. I hope that some honourable members on the other side of the House are going to support him in the stand he has taken. Someone on the other side of the chamber has mentioned centralism. It is all right being centralist when you have the sort of legislation which is brought down here. I think there is a little confusion among honourable members opposite as to what is centralism and what is co-operative federalism. All I am submitting is that the co-operation that is necessary for the smooth working of our federation has been severely weakened by the action that has been taken in this matter. 
It seems to me, as my colleague the honourable member for Dawson suggested this morning, that we have heard a clever statement and word splitting, the sort of stuff a schoolboy would put up as a rebuttal in the second issue of the school magazine if he did not like an article in the first issue. Surely honourable members expect a better example than this from the Prime Minister in the national Parliament? 1 want to read again the words which the honourable member for Dawson suggested should be added to this rather foolish and futile statement. Nevertheless it is because of its foolishness and futility that we have hung upon the statement the amendment which, if carried, will bring down the Government. It does not seem to me that the amendment is being considered in quite that serious light by the group of Ministers on the front bench, particularly those who wanted to talk while the debate was going on. They have not taken the situation very seriously at all. These are the words that the Australian Labor Party has proposed should be added to the motion:  and that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet-- 
It is a collective assault -  lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development-- 
Now the humble honourable member for Farrer -  acting for and on behalf of the Commonwealth Government,  that  there would be further consultation with the . Statesbefore theC ommonwealth Government introduced  any  legislation  on  the territorial sea and continental shelf. 
I ask that those honourable members on the Government side who claim they believe in a working federal system and who claim that they give observance to proper constitutional proprieties should consider very carefully what is involved in those words moved by the honourable member for Dawson this morning. Two sacred constitutional issues are at stake. The first concerns the collective responsibility of a Cabinet, so that when a Minister still clothed with his full ministerial powers does certain things and after consultation - whether it be effective or ineffective - with the rest of the Cabinet he commits the whole of the Cabinet. The honourable member for Farrer believes he did this. The second thing which is significant is that because we have a federal system this ham-handed sort of play that has been allowed to continue has breached the relationships that ought to prevail between the centre and the component parts of a federation. There has to be a great deal more co-operation and discussion with the States in the future on this and other matters. 
I would like to take the House back to what happened early this morning. After the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  had submitted the statement which gave rise to this debate, my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  moved certain words as an amendment to the motion that the House take note of the paper. The Prime Minister from his seat - it was the only time that he has appeared in the House; he has not appeared since - said that he accepted as a motion of censure the words sought to be inserted in the motion by the honourable member for Dawson. To my mind this is the significant question, and it is the one that we raised on a previous occasion. 
We have a great deal of argument in this House from time to time on whether the Executive usurps the functions of Parliament or whether Parliament still has in it sufficient residual initiatives of its own. A few of the -initiatives that still remain open to the Opposition relate to moves for the discussion of matters of urgent public importance, votes of no confidence and votes of censure. I submit with all respect that this initiative resides in the Opposition only, because surely it is futility to suggest that a motion of no confidence would be moved from the Government side. Surely a Government must think that it has confidence within itself, although I am sure that some honourable members on the Government side at the moment do not have quite the degree of confidence that would make for an ideal situation. 
I repeat that the Prime Minister said this morning: T accept this as a motion of censure'. What has happened is that there has been a counting of heads. The Government realised that at least the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  was going to support my colleague from Dawson. There was a suggestion also that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  would support it and that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was going to refrain. What sort of substantive action refraining is in a matter such as this 1 do not know. But by means of a contrivance - I submit that it is only a contrivance - another set of words has been substituted for those which earlier the Prime Minister was willing to accept as a motion of censure. I would suggest that in the context of all this the only way iri which the question should have been resolved was by honourable members voting aye or nay for the proposition. lt is true - and the Parliament has discussed this point on a previous occasion - that the Parliament has its own Standing Orders which are specific on particular propositions. Where there is doubt as to the meaning of particular standing order we invoke the great historical work of Erskine May, which has been the guide for British parliamentary institutions. Originally it was a guide for the use of the House of Commons, but it has subsequently become the vademecum of the other countries which have accepted the British parliamentary system. But I submit that as well as using our own Standing Orders as a guide and as well as invoking Erskine May we have also to place some faith in common sense. 

 Mr Speaker, lt seems to me, judging it on the basis of common sense, that we have twice accepted in the Parliament motions which have become negations of the original propositions. The way to deal with a proposition is to vote aye if you support it and nay if you do not support it. 1 submit to honourable members that they should look at the mathematics of this sort of situation. 
I know it is. The Government has been seriously looking at the mathematics all day. By use of a contrivance it has bought off two or three honourable members on its side of the chamber. 
The Minister may regard it as a legitimate contrivance,  Mr Speaker,  but I am appealing to you to use your common sense. If 1 may 1 shall refer to a great historical observation which was made in the House of Commons in a day when things were not quite so good in that place - at the time of the Long Parliament, the time of the Lord Protector, Cromwell. He said to the Speaker: 'Remember,  Sir, from  whom you get your authority' - and I submit that this is important to you,  Sir -  'and for whom you exercise it*. 
I suggest that here you exercise your authority.  Sir, in  the name of common sense and in the name of the right of this institution. Looking at it that way, it seems very difficult for me, on the basis of any sort of logical analysis, to arrive at any other conclusion either about this particular set of circumstances, or an earlier set of circumstances, than that the House is being asked to vote on two questions of which one is virtually the negative of the other. On the previous occasion the motion of censure was also initiated on this side of the House. The initiative should properly reside on this side of the House. This is where censure should come from. The amendment which was moved today by the honourable member for Dawson on behalf of the Opposition was accepted by the Prime Minister as a motion of censure. 
On the previous occasion the Opposition moved a motion of censure against the 
Minister in charge of the House. That surely was a question which should have been resolved on its own. But on that occasion too a clever contrivance was used to get around that by turning (he motion against the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  into one against the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  How can such questions be resolved simultaneously? I think that if honourable members have another look at the voting on that occasion they will find, oddly enough, that from a mathematical point of view as many people were in favour of the leader of the Opposition as were against him, because of the way the decisions were arrived at. 
The second amendment on this occasion seems to be nothing but a negation of the proper processes of debate. When a proposition is put up one is either for it or against it. Sensible amendments to a proposition are permissible, but not the type of amendment which takes away the total element from the first proposition and substitutes something which is the direct opposite. It appears to me (hat in view of what is involved here honourable members opposite are running away from the only right which the Opposition has, the right to censure the Government. If the Government has the numbers why is it so fearful of the result? The only reason is that it knows that if the Opposition's proposition were the only one available some of the Government's devoted followers would not be quite so devoted on this occasion. I submit that the second amendment is a paltry contrivance. I think also that it debases this chamber from what it ought to be - the most important debating forum in the Commonwealth of Australia. I am sorry that we have bowed to certain devices in this respect,  Sir, and  I still appeal to you as the custodian of the chair to use a little common sense. You are not the honourable member for Phillip, as my colleague the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  properly pointed out; you are  Mr Speaker  - a term which has reverential overtones within it and which will continue to have reverential overtones only if it is felt that when you have to make a difficult adjudication you lean not on the side of the numbers - because the numbers will prevail eventually - but that you occasionally lean on the side of logic. I submit that if logic is leant on in this instance the second amendment, that which has been moved by the honourable member for Casey should be rejected by the House because it is a direct negative of the first proposition which was put up and which was accepted earlier in the day by the Prime Minister as being a censure of him and his Government - which, if carried, would mean the fall of his Government and which, if defeated, would mean that his Government had prevailed. 
I will not follow my friend the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Dobie)  down the fascinating path ha lo how a state-owned institution can be nationalised, lt seems to me that the proposed Australian Industry Development Corporation will be a Stateowned institution. The Opposition supports this Bill setting up this Corporation because its purpose is to increase the Australian content of industry in Australia and because it also proposes to promote industrial development. The main difficulty ] see about it - 1 am rather astonished at the nature of the criticism from honourable members on the Government side - is that it is a pigmy in its initial conception. I shall illustrate this by pointing out the magnitude of its proposed capitalisation when compared to the annual supply of capital in Australia at the moment. If honourable members read the Bill they will discover that it is proposed to capitalise the Corporation initially by a grant of $25m. This sum may be augmented in the first period of operation to 4 times that amount, if the Government is able to raise the funds. It is hoped that they will be raised principally from overseas. 
I would like to clear one little difficulty that seems to have intruded into this debate, that is, whether this organisation is a bank or something else. If I may I want to repeat a story I have told in this House before. It is attributed to the late Lord Keynes. Someone asked him to explain the difference between the International Bank for Recon struction and Development and the International Monetary Fund. The late Lord Keynes is supposed to have said that you best understand the Bank if you think of it as a fund and you best understand the Fund if you think of it as a bank. I suggest, with all respect, that this Corporation will be a fund rather than a bank. 
If one turns to the White Paper on national income one finds that for the 12 months ended in June 1969 what is described as gross fixed capital expenditure in Australia amounted to $8,083m, or in round terms S8.000m. About two-thirds of that sum was expended in private investment and approximately one-third in public investment. The principal thing that ought to concern honourable members is the item described as 'All other private investment'. This is what is left when we take out of the private field the money spent on construction of new dwellings and other new buildings. The sum left is what goes into the expansion or development of industry in our private enterprise system, or that part of industry still in that field, and in that period it amounted to $2,375m. That is why I say it is a pigmy conception to think that somehow the injection of $25m into the Australian Industry Development Corporation, leading up to possibly S lOOm, will disrupt the whole fabric of private enterprise. 
The other interesting and significant figure that ought to be noted is that those capital funds amounting to approximately S8,000m were found in the main within Australia, with the exception of a sum of SI, 149m - not an insignificant item - which is described in the White Paper as the net apparent capital inflow. Of course, the significant and strategic thing so far as the Australian economy is concerned is the tendency for the majority of that net capital inflow to go into what is called all other private capital expenditure. 
It is this which has led up to the sort of situation referred to by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  as the preponderance of foreign ownership in certain of our industries. After all, he only quoted the figures, which are freely available, relating to overseas participation in Australian manufacturing industry in the period from 1962-63 to 1966-67. They 
The degree of overseas participation in the Australian mining industry in recent years is a stark indication of what has happened. I gather from a lot of the speeches made in the course of this debate that most honourable members have high hopes that the sort of capital expansion envisaged with the institution of this Corporation will be in the mineral field. I shall quote some figures shortly which indicate that in some fields it is already too late because control at the moment is largely non-Australian. The table at page 13 of the document entitled 'Overseas Participation in Australian Mining Industry' shows that from 1963 to 1967 - a period of 4 years - overseas ownership in the mining field increased from 27.3% to 40.9%. Of course, the degree of Australian ownership on the other side declined from 72.7% to 59.1%. In other words, we have reached the stage where two-fifths of the minerals industry is under foreign ownership. Primarily what is being exploited are Australian natural resources. The exploitation is taking place on the basis of two-fifths foreign ownership and three-fifths internal participation. 
Some mention has been made in this debate of another organisation, the Australian Resources Development Bank Ltd. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  had a great half an hour out here just before dinner indicating how little information the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  had given about this Bill setting up the AIDC: I simply say to the honourable gentleman: How little information was given to this House when the Australian Resources Development Bank Ltd was set up. No legislation relating to it was passed by this House. All that was necessary was the consent of the Treasurer to its calling itself a bank. Apart from the fact that one can go down to the Victorian Companies Office, search the registrations and find the articles and memorandum of association or its annual report, it is subject to no scrutiny whatsoever. 
The type of criticism that has come is rather astonishing. Even though the ARDB has been in operation for not much more than 2 years, in the time that it has been in operation it has extended credits amounting to about $250m, the main part of which has been in the field of minerals. The annual report of the ARDB shows that the biggest advances that have been promised are: Something like $65m for bauxite and alumina, something in the region of S40m for nickel, something in the region of $40m for iron ore, $40m for oil and natural gas, $20m for zinc, SI 5m for coal, $10m for pyrites and some $15m for other fields. I repeat that this organisation operates as a bank and not as a fund. With an initial capital of some SI Om it has been able to erect a structure of advances that will in a short period be in the region of S250m. 
But I want to draw attention at this stage to some rather interesting features of the situation in the base metals industry in Australia, because this is the one to which, it seems to me, people look with such high hopes for contribution to exports in the future. I use as my main source of information a publication entitled 'The Contribution of the Base Metals Industry to Australian Economic Growth' by S. Tsung which is published by the Committee for Economic Development of Australia. It is from the Committee's M series, No. 26. It says some rather striking things. This is why it seems to me that these apostles of free enterprise in the Liberal Party, as they were described here this afternoon, do not seem to realise the sort of situation that Australia has to face in exports, say, in the 1970s. 
The learned writer points out that according to projections for 1971 Australian contracts for the supply of some 40 million tons of iron ore to Japan have already been signed, but Japan's total needs in that year will be 88 million tons. He says that Japan is reluctant to have a dependence rate upon any country greater than 45%. For a strategic material, this 45% seems to be extraordinarily high. It is the writer's opinion that Australia is not likely to get more than 5 million tons of this extra 17 million tons in the years ahead. He goes on further to note that one solution which has been recommended to the Japanese Government by a special sub-committee on the basic problems of the iron and steel industry is the formation of an Iron and Steel Council within the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, which is known very briefly as MITI. This Council would work to co-ordinate industry planning more closely with government projections. It would bring even greater centralisation to the steel industry and a tougher approach to negotiating raw material contracts. 
I submit that what this shows is that the Ministry of International Trade and Industry in Japan has a much tougher approach and a much more systematic approach to looking after Japanese interests than the Australian Government has to looking after Australian interests. Some people in the wool industry are concerned at the moment. I do not want to go into that argument tonight except to indicate that it seems that Japan as a buyer is much better organised than is Australia as a seller. The writer goes on further to talk about projections for iron ord exports from Australia during the period from 1966-67 to 1974-75 and lists the likely demands from such companies as Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd, Mount Newman Iron Ore Co. Ltd, Mount Goldsworthy Mining Associates, Cliffs Western Australian Mining Co. Pty Ltd, Western Mining Corporation Ltd, Sentinel Mining Co., the company operating the Savage River project, Morgan Mining and Industrial Co. Pty Ltd, Frances Creek Iron Mining Pty Ltd, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, and the companies operating the Northam and Hanwright projects. He expects that by 1974-75 exports will be of a value of S446m. 
But then the other thing that the learned writer goes on to note is the capital structures of these various concerns that are operating in this field at the moment. I have time to quote only one. I quote the rather dominant one. Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd. I think the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  quoted some examples of cost this afternoon. At the end of 1967 the cost of the Hamersley project was $179m. This figure includes the first primary crushing unit and concentrating facilities, the railway and rolling stock and the loading and port facilities at Dampier. It also includes the bulk of the cost of a pellet plant that was completed in March 1968. With a planned second crushing unit to lift the capacity to 24 million tons and the balance of the cost of the pellet plant the cost will be in excess of $200m.  Mr Tsung  pointed out that vast sums are involved in developing Aus*tralia's natural resources. He then comments: 
Hamersley 's capital at the date of writing is $A50m. The shares are owned as to 54# by TRA. 36% by Kaiser Steel Corporation of the US. and 10% by the Australian public. Eighty-five per cent of CRA is in turn owned by overseas interest, therefore in effect I8.t%- 
Less than one-fifth - of Hamersley's capital is owned by Australians. 
This is why I submit that in many respects these measures are too little and too late. lt was astonishing to hear the Minister far Trade and Industry say that he knew of no important country other than Australia where the government exhibits a complete indifference as to whether its natural resources or production opportunities .ire owned in whole or in part by overseas interests. What an astonishing statement to come from the  Deputy  Prims Minister crf a Government that has governed Australia for 20 years, for the whole of which the inflow of foreign capital has been significant. He says that at a stage when the capital inflow from overseas is hundreds of millions of dollars and when Australian participation is as low as one-fifth. The Government comes along with a paltry measure that will start a capital fund of $25m which is likely to yield at the end of 12 months or so $100m and it claims that the majority of the money will come from overseas. At the moment the ruling interest rate overseas is from 10% to 12%. When inflation is the most pressing economic problem do members of the Government believe that inflation will be halted if they finance investment in Australia at a rate of 12% on money borrowed overseas? Surely the whole concept and approach is absurd. 
What is required in Australia is something of the magnitude of the Japan Development Bank: I quote from its financial statements of 31st March 1968, which are the latest available to me. They show that the assets of that concern, and in turn the liabilities - expressed in American dollars, which are one-tenth less than the value  at  Australian dollars - are $3,617m. That is the way in which our principal customer looks after the problem of industrial development. It is done on a government basis. Australia is faced with a situation in which virtually the whole of our wool is sold outside Australia, more than half of our wheat is sold outside Australia and the same is true of dairy produce and sugar. That is also the situation we are going to face with minerals. Our principal buyer in the years ahead will be Japan whose trade, through its trade department and buttressed by economic assistance from the Japanese Treasury and other sources, is much better organised to do a good deal for Japan than Australia's system is organised to do a good deal for us. 
I have said before in this House that Australia is being robbed at the moment of nearly $200m a year in current wool prices. I do not think we know how much we are being robbed of in the prices that have been negotiated for the sale of iron ore. We have abundant resources of iron ore available in Australia. Surely they ought to be regarded as the national heritage of all Australians. Why does it require somebody from overseas to own the preponderant amount of the equity that is required to take that ore out of the soil and sell it to our customer, Japan, 2,000 miles away? Why must the industry be riddled by the dominance of foreign ownership? This is why at last we applaud the measure that is now before us, small as it is. Honourable members should look at the figures for the industrial development corporation in South Africa, whose economy is at a much lower level than ours in terms of the gross national product. The advances through those organisations in Japan and South Africa are for different purposes, according to the nature of the economy concerned. Australia must build this sort of institution that can give this country some strength as a seller of commodities, both primary and mineral, and ultimately of manufacture, that other parts of the world will require. But we cannot do it if we go into the organisation as a curious assembly of individual sellers against organised buyers. 
Somebody mentioned earlier today the lack of co-ordination of resources. This is the kind of thing that can happen if we allow foreign concerns to be the dominant determinant of where development takes place. I quote again from the study on the metal industry: 
The problem that is causing concern within the Australian iron ore industry is that of resource allocation. 
That was mentioned this afternoon by my colleague, the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  The article continues: 
The problem has arisen because of the failure of the Government to provide for infrastructures and community services in those remote mining areas. The Government has turned these responsibilities to private industry. As a result railway lines, port facilities, power supply are privately owned. A company's interest is unfortunately not always the same as the national interest - 
The Minister for Trade and Industry said something of that kind in the course of his speech, that what was good for General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd was not necessarily good for Australia -  and reconciling the two is an important role ot government in the modern free enterprise economy. In this respect both the Western Australian and the Commonwealth governments have failed to do in the iron ore development in north Western Australia. A disturbing example of this is the failure to co-ordinate the railway lines. Hamersley Iron built a 180 mile railway line from Mount Tom Price to Dampier at King Bay. Mount Newman is about 100 miles to the east of Mount Tora Price. Early in 1967 when plans for Mount Newman were still on the drawing board the Mount Newman consortium approached Hamersley Iron in respect to a proposal to use Hamersley's line for the shipping of Mount Newman ore. The terms demanded by Hamersley were: a capital payment of  $A 50m  for the use of Dampier and the railway line for which Mount Newman will receive no equity in the assets plus SOc a ton toll plus operating costs. The terms are so tough that Mount Newman has no alternative but to build another 260 mile railway line almost parallel to the Hamersley line and to construct port facilities at Port Hedland. The marginal cost for Hamersley in sharing its railway line with Mount Newman is nowhere near the amount demanded. For the economy as a whole this is a distinct case of misallocation of resources. 
He goes on to suggest the prospect of the 2 rival concerns building 2 ports instead of coming to an agreement about building 1 port only. If this sort of thing is done by the use of foreign capital I think it is time that the Government stepped in and regulated what some of these irresponsible multi-national giants are doing as far as planned development in Australia is concerned. 
Surely the resources of a body like the Australian Industry Development Corporation could be used to act as a neutral factor between contending companies. The Corporation could say: 'We are not going to allow you to build 2 railway lines when the second company can be served by a spur from the railway line built by the first company.' I submit that to do that is only to be sensible as far as the national development of Australia is concerned. Puny and all as this measure is, at least it is a beginning. 1 hope at any rate that this organisation will grow to great heights in a short space of time. 

 - Mr Speaker, I understand that this announcement is made in accordance with standing order 298 which states: 
Any message from the Governor-General recommending an appropriation of revenue or moneys for the purposes of or in relation to an amendment made or requested by the Senate in  a  Bill which originated in the House shall be announced before that amendment or requested amendment, as the case may be, is considered. 
It seems to me that this procedure is peculiar. The message recommending appropriation of the main part of the expenditure involved in this measure was announced, as is normal, after the second reading stage was completed. This is a Bill which, under the terms of the Constitution, the Senate may not amend. The Senate has got over this restriction by the use of this curious power of request. I suggest it is time that this House asserted its rights in respect of what are called money Bills - that they must originate only in this House and that they may not be amended. A request would not have been necessary if the House had had the commonsense to accept the amendment moved in this place by a colleague of mine. Because the Government had sufficient numbers in this chamber but not in the other place it now has to eat humble pie, as it were, and to accept the words proposed in the request. At this stage, if I may, I would like to draw the attention of honourable members to a document- 
I am glad that the Treasurer was caught by surprise, as I was, by the precipitate way in which the business of the Mouse has been conducted, lt is true that this Bill has been on the notice paper for about 2 months. However, such is the way that this House works that suddenly we get through a lot of business and wc have to deal with a matter which we did not think would come on for discussion. I am sure that the Treasurer is aware of the Per Jacobsson Address which was delivered on Sunday, 28th September 1969, by a Belgian economist, Alexandre Lainfalussy. 
-He may be a Scot, by tendency, but he is a Belgian by origin. Any honourable member who wants a copy of this document may get one free by writing to the Reserve Bank of Australia. This should appeal to my colleague the honourable member for Boothby. Al page 22 he said: 
There is no general agreement on a simple way of measuring whether there is adequate international liquidity or not. 
What we are now concerned about is a scheme to increase international liquidity. Last night in this House there was a great debate centred upon an organisation known as the Australian Industry Development Corporation. 
The Government won in a rather hamstrung sort of way. If the honourable member claims that the Government won it on the basis of 102 votes to 4, then I hope that a lot more propositions in Australia will be won in the same way. Nevertheless, such dissent as there was in that debate came from honourable members on the Government side. Such dissent as there was came from what might be called the hill-billy attitude of certain elements in the Party which the honourable member for Boothby represents. Those honourable members on his side who dissented in the debate on the Australian Industry Development Corporation do not realise that we are living in a period which will change very significantly in the next 10 years. We were dealing last night with some of the mystifications, if one likes to refer to them in that way, that can surround the business called banking. One of the points that was not clearly brought out last night was that once an organisation is called a bank it has certain capacities within itself to create credit. Last nightI instanced a body espoused by the Government parties - the Australian Resources Development Bank. With an initial capitalisation of the magnitude of $10m it has been able to posit advances of the order of $250m.I contrasted that with thatI called the pigmy institution, the Australian Industry Development Corporation, which has been hamstrung by the initial capitalisation provided by the Government. It is to attempt to borrow principally externally, but I have some doubts about how much external borrowing it will be able to achieve on the terms available today. It can expand its activities only because it is a fund rather than a bank. 
There have been recent developments in the International Monetary Fund around the concept of what is called paper gold.I submit that this is of significance for any who have great faith in gold as a measure of international currency.I want to quote from an article which I commend to all honourable members interested in banking. I refer to a series called 'Penguin modern economies'. With due respect to the Government, sometimes I am not sure that it is aware of what modern economics are. I think the Government is caught between the world of laisser faire, which is no longer applicable anyway, and modern economics and that it is not quite sure what it has to do in this modern world. The particular volumeI refer to is entitled 'International Finance' and is edited by R. N. Cooper. It contains an article by  Mr Machlup,  an authority who I am sure my friend the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  will acknowledge, which is entitled 'The Cloakroom Rule of International Reserves: Reserve Creation and Resources Transfer'. It appeared in the quarterly journal 'Economies', volume 79, at pages 337 to 355. I submit firstly that  Mr Machlup  is not a gentleman who could be described as a credit crank. We get some curious examples at times of what can happen in this field. In recent times the Treasurer has been submitted to this sort of assay in connection with the recent rise in interest rates. I shall quote what  Mr Machlup  said about three fundamental propositions. He states at page 343 of this volume: 
The essential points will be understood more readily if we go back to some more general relationships that hold on different levels of the monetary system and can be formulated in three fundamental propositions: 
For payments among customers of the same (commercial) bank, the assets (amounts, quality, composition, liquidity) of the bank are irrelevant; they become relevant only for payments to customers of other banks, that is, for inter-bank payments. 
In other words he is saying that if my friend the Treasurer and I are customers of the same bank our transactions take place quite simply within the bank. It is only if he happens to be in a bank other than mine that the structure of my bank relative to his arises.  Mr Machlup  goes on to note: 
For inter-bank payments - 
That is to say, payments between the Commercial Bank of Australia and the Commercial Bank of Sydney, the difference being more in name than in substance - in  the same country the assets - 
And again he notes amounts, quality, composition and liquidity -  of the National Reserve Bank are irrelevant They become relevant only for payments to persons or banks  in  other countries,  that is,  for international payments. 
Then the learned writer goes on to note thirdly: 
For international payments in the same world - 
At the moment whether we like it or not we are still living in the same world. We can have significantly political differences but we are still part of one world -  the assets - 
Again he notes amounts, quality, composition and liquidity -  of the International Reserve Bank (or  an  appropriately organised IMF) are irrelevant. They become relevant only for payments to persons, banks or reserve banks on other planets, that  is  for interplanetary payments. 
Al this stage we have not had to face the question of interplanetary payments. At least that is what the writer is hinting at. He notes some quite distinct reservations about what took, place at the Bretton Woods Conference, as my friend the Treasurer knows. An attempt was made to have an international currency. The principal reason why we did not achieve an international currency was that the most preponderant economic power at the time, the United States of America, did not want it. The author notes this at page 34 1 . He says: 
The United Nations and other founding countries did not want the Fund to be a credit-creating institution and. hence, they anxiously avoided what would have been a pre-condition to the creation of a new international currency, namely, the acceptability of the Fund's deposit liabilities in international payments among national monetary authorities. 
By adopting the special drawing rights, which are sometimes blithely described as paper gold as 1 have said, we have accepted the fact that there can be international creation of credit. I know that we get into great difficulties once we talk about the creation of credit. Some rather curious doctrines have been expressed on this subject. 
I quote from a later book by  Mr M.achlup,  which is available in the Library, entitled 'The Structure of the IMF'. He said; 
The debt character of money has confused economists and lawyers for centuries. The fact that the recipient and holder of money has, on the one hand, taken over a legal claim against the issuer of the money and, on the other hand, acquired an economic claim against the rest of the community lo be honoured, when he so desires, in goods, services, or other titles to wealth, has been the source of perennial bafflement and endless  twattle.  The 'loan' to the legal debtor and the Moan' lo the community implied in the exchange of present for future goods or services have rarely been  separted  wilh sufficient clarity in the students' thinking. 
This is the point at which we have arrived concerning international liquidity. 1 am glad to see the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  in the chamber. He at least has more practical experience than some of these other gentlemen. T am glad to see also the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who claims to be a student of financial transactions. I have mentioned the Australian Resources Development Bank. There is no doubt that once any institution is allowed to call itself a bank - this was the essence of the debate last night but we did not get around to it - it has within itself the capacity to create credit. Some people suggest that there is no limit to the capacity to create credit. Unless some limits are placed upon it we distort the existing arrangements of any people who hold money in one remove or another. 
That is the situation in which we are placed at the moment in regard to international transactions. I submit again that it is quite clearly brought out in  Mr Machlup's  article, to which I have referred, that the great problem in world trade at the moment is the disparity between the standards of living of the rich and the poor. I heard a certain gentleman at the farmers' protest march say that if Australia suddenly increased the amount of its aid to poor countries from 1% to  2%  - we have not even reached 1% yet - by some mysterious process all our surpluses of wheat and wool would evaporate. This is sheer nonsense, economically. Nevertheless if we had more systematic arrangements for international transfer - surely this is what has to happen - we could arrange for the transfer of physical surpluses from one country to another. I am sorry that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  is not present at the moment. 
There are a lot who are not present. I am afraid that this is all too true about most of the debates that take place. Many honourable members are here when a fight is on but not many are here when we come to consider reasonably fundamental proposals.  Mr Machlup  says: 
When gold is the only international reserve money, some Africans, Australians, and Asians (and a few North Americans) must work in the mines to dig the stuff out of the ground. When credit entries in the books of an acceptable organisation become substitutes for cold, work on highways, railroads, harbours, power plants, hospitals, and schools of developing countries can take the place in gold mines. 
I submit that this is a pretty salutary lesson for most of us. 
I am not trying to secure political capital. I will illustrate what 1 am trying to suggest. I read 2 days ago in the Australian Financial Review' that it may not be long before Australia becomes an importer rather than an exporter of gold. Well, candidly, I hope that we never reach that silly day, but this is the sort of suggestion that is made. It is suggested that we could produce a lot more gold if the price of gold were higher. I think that what the gentleman whom I am quoting is pointing out is that gold is produced only because people, who could well be employed somewhere else, are digging the wretched stuff out of the ground. If it is still thought that it is a systematic sort of economic appraisal to have people digging gold rather than, as the writer says, building highways, railroads, harbours, power plants, hospitals and schools. I think that this shows what curious sort of thinkers we are sometimes. The author says: 
. provided the countries holding most of the international reserves are willing to pay for the 'perfect substitute' the same price they used to pay and continue to pay for gold reserves. Equal prices for perfect substitutes are the rule, rather than the exception, in competitive markets. The savings in the production of the low-cost substitute must be distributed somehow, and if the producer, in this case the International Reserve Institution, holds a monopoly, the distribution is for the owners of the company lo decide. If they are so inclined, they may well let the developing countries have the lion's share.  1 suggest that this is where we are placed in this situation. Perhaps the gentleman who thought that it was easy to dispose of our surpluses by increasing our aid to another part of the world might have something, but 1 do not think that he had anything like everything. 
As I understand it, the difficulty with the SDR system - that is, the special drawing rights system - or the paper gold system, was experienced in providing the greatest potential credit availability not to those who needed it most but to those who needed it least. This, it seems to me, is the sort of dilemma that one has to resolve. I am afraid that, in the long run, the only argument to which we can return in order to try to obtain some sort of rationalisation about this process is to compare the amounts which countries spend on defence with what they spend on economic aid. 
At the moment, Australia spends approximately 4% of its gross natonal product on defence. Australia spends less than 1% of its gross national product on economic aid and more than half of that amount goes to the area in which we have great individual responsibility, namely, Papua and New Guinea. I am not arguing about th:s as a proposition, but surely the point that we reach is this: It would be a lot easier from our point of view if we could sell all our wheat, wool and sugar to all countries. As I pointed out in a debate last night, more than half of ail products that we sell other than wool and almost the whole of the wool that we sell, are not sold in this country at all. Those products are sold on external markets. The difficulty in being able to sell those products is the lack of purchasing power of the people to whom we would like to sell. That is why I find at least a little bit interesting 
What is the solution? Some of the honourable member's colleagues showed last night how hillbilly is the approach of honourable members opposite to this problem. Let me illustrate what some honourable members opposite were frightened about last night. I notice that my friend from the bank - the honourable member for Mitchell - is almost rearing to go. He calls himself a practical banker. But. if he is a practical banker, I am sure that one of the terms of his practicality is that he does not wish the mysteries to become available too freely. This, I think, is one of the great difficulties. 
If one reads monetary history - one should read it - one would know that 100 or so years ago in Great Britain a great argument took place between what were called the currency school and the banking school. Fortunately for the history of mankind the banking school won. The fact that the banking school won simply showed that, if anything is called a bank, provided those who wish to go to that bank will accept, if honourable members like, the credibility - that is an awful word in 1970; I am sure that the word ought to be creditability rather than credibility in that sense - of that bank and provided they accept the 'creditability' of the institution, it will function. 
What happened fortunately for the history of mankind is that it has been realised in most modern communities that unless the total volume of the credit is controlled in the public interest, private manipulators will use it for their own advantage. With all respect to my friend from Mitchell - he and 1 talk in a quite friendly fashion on some things; but we certainly do not agree about the proposition last night - this seemed to me to be- 
I hope that I am friendly with most people in this audience. What I am trying to suggest is that we have a pretty substantial proposition in front of us. I think that the one thing that the Government does not realise, with all respect to honourable members opposite, is that it has allowed what it calls private enterprise to develop in this field. Candidly, how the Government uses the term 'private enterprise' in a monopolistic kind of system is beyond my ken. 1 think the Government's idea of private enterprise is that there is no difference to be found between the milk bar on the corner that employs a husband and wife and the factory 200 yards away, which the milk bar mainly serves, employing 1,000 people. That is why f think honourable members opposite must rethink some of their propositions. 
I am interested lo see the progress thai has been made in the International Monetary Fund by the acceptance of SDRs as a basis for regular expansion of the total availability of international liquidity. The next step that we must take is the one that  Mr Machlup  points out. We must realise that if we do acknowledge the fact that we can create credit on the international scale as well as the internal scale, the fundamental proposition to be faced up to is: Who gels the availability of the expansion? What he suggests is that it means fundamentally a transfer of resources, if honourable members like, or in terms used by those gentlemen who are sifting on the front bench, the selling of surplus wheat in Australia. I am sure that none of them argues that we can sell our wool and that we can use our wool and wheat in Australia. Those gentlemen ought to be interested in some mechanism that will make the flow of trade better than it is. To my mind, this is what is being attempted. The great struggle still is whether it is controlled in the interests of the majority of people or in the interests of the people who control the total volume of credit at the moment. I have been rather interested in recent days to read about the attempts of Australia to join the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. I hope that in the course of this debate somebody will explain much better than was done in an answer to a question today, which was certainly rather veiled in its implications, whether Australia intends to join this Organisation and what sort of impact it will make if it does join. Surely the impact must be in terms of the expansion of Australia's trade overseas. 
It is for these reasons that we on this side of the House offer no objection to the increase of Australia's quota to the International Monetary Fund. I am sure that my colleagues were just as surprised as I was to find that this preliminary essay in terms of the special drawing rights was much more adventurous than was initially thought. We had thought that the expansion would have been in the region of SI billion. Figures can be supplied to show that the availability of total international resources is somewhere in the region of $70m.  Mr Lamfalussy's  text also stated that the availability of total international resources is far less in terms of gold than it used to be and that a higher volume of international trade is being encompassed with a lesser degree of total reserves than was formerly the case. Although my friend, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  is not present I think I must say that the ominous signs are that if special drawing rights become more extensive - personally T hope they will because it simply shows the extension on the international plane of what is done in internal banking - gold will become a less and less important element in terms of international trade. I am afraid that I for one have no tears to shed about this proposition. 
If people like to score cheap points about the fact that that means employment in the gold mines in Kalgoorlie will fall, they are quite welcome to score such points. This is not only true of the gold mining industry. I think it is true of many of our primary producing industries. Are we to maintain the same total level of employment in certain industries as we have done in the past? When 1 read the article in the Financial Review' a day or two ago which staled that we may become an importer of gold rather than an exporter. I thought that the writer was becoming a little bit over-enthusiastic about the same point that I am trying to make, and that is that gold will become a less important element. I am sure that the Treasurer reads as I do the various articles that emanate from international sources. In one of those articles someone described what they called the defusing of gold. The more we substitute the capacity of the International Monetary Fund to have its own sort of securities that will be acceptable in the rest of the world, the less will gold become an element. As I said earlier, I will shed no tears about the loss of gold. It seems to me to indicate in its most extreme form the futility of mankind. He will dig out of the ground something that in many respects would be better left there. This is done only on the assumption that unless we dig it there is nothing else more acceptable to promote the flow of trade in the world. If we are to continue to subscribe to that sort of mystification, it seems to me incredible. 
As  Mr Machlup  indicates in the passage that 1 quoted, surely what we are doing when we export gold - the same situation would apply if we export iron ore from Australia - is to get the Japanese, for instance, to pay the equivalent of the labour used in the production of the raw material, whether it be iron ore or gold. The wages that are paid to the Australians in consequence of digging either the ore or gold goes into part of the expansion of the economy of Australia. The wages that are paid become the demand for other industry in Australia. What is earned by the export of gold or iron ore, or any other product, in turn enables Australia to import something else that we are not able to develop for ourselves by reason of the stage of our economy. Surely this is what international trade is. It seems to me to be a healthy move in the long run to support any measure that will increase the total availability of international liquidity. There will still be on the international plane the same sort of difficulty that there is on the internal plane. It is not that there is any limit to the capacity to generate credit, but unless there are some limits set on its generation, the real value of those who own assets, those who own money or those who have claims on the existitng levels of activity in the community will be destroyed. 
It took a long time internally to accept this as part of economic reality. It will take a much longer time to extend the same sort of attitudes to what is really there - an ability to do the same thing on an external plane. I think the difficulty is that it has taken us a long time to accept within a community that a lot of redistribution can be done by taxation, by control with the total volume of credit and by other devices. But on the international plane the great difficulty is that people And it hard to comprehend that you are doing anything but give away what it has taken physical resources to compile. I think this is the great problem at the moment. Unless we see through this sort of nexus and realise that unless we sell something to somebody else they will not have the ability to exchange the other way. This is one of the most complex problems, I suppose, in modern economics. In fact, I. think 2 of the most difficult things to comprehend in modern economics are the operations of the tariffs, which are the barrier that countries set to the free exchange of goods, and the level of exchanges which operate between the transfer of those goods. They are 2 of the most complicated propositions in modern economics. Sometimes I am afraid that one is a little bamboozled by the sort of curious characters who think that by some sort of transfer of the pen all these problems can be solved overnight. They cannot be solved internally in that way: less so can they be solved externally. 
It seems to me that the SDR scheme is a move in the right direction but the great dilemma that still has not been solved is that it has mainly been confined to what is called the group of 10. I suppose that if the group of 10 had not agreed to it the scheme would not have got off the ground at all. I think that even Australia thought that the group ought to become a group of 11 by the admission of Australia. Unless the group of 10 sees the thing through much more realistically than it has in the pa.-,t, it is likely to get bogged down in what may be called the use of capacity to expand the total availability of international liquidity. The main advantage will go to those who need it least and the least advantage will go to those who need it most. This seems to be the greatest problem that faces the world. 
We have a decade of development which which never got off the ground because these propositions were not faced up to. From 1970 to 1980 we hope to do what we did not do between 1960 and 1970. I hope thai we will progress further between 1970 and 1980 than we did between 1960 and 1970. But we will not do this unless we think through a lot of these problems. I ask the Treasurer to make available to the House a lot more of the documentation that is available about these propositions than is currently the case. They are not easy problems to evaluate, and I think he will agree with this. But unless they are thought through we will be perplexed in the next 10 years by even more difficult problems than we have had in the last 10 years. 
It is a pretty desperate duty to embark on a discussion of CommonwealthState financial relationships on the next day. This Bill authorises the expenditure of nearly SI 6m, $12m to be distributed between the 6 States in proportion to the financial assistance grants payable to them th:s year under the formula laid down in the States Grants Act, with an additional $1.5m to Tasmania. On top of that, further amounts totalling $2.5m will be expended to compensate the States for the estimated additional interest costs incurred by them up to 30th June 1970 as a result of the removal of the income tax rebate on Commonwealth loan interest in November 1968. In introducing this measure the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  explained that the main reason for the additional $12m was the representations which were made at the recent Premiers' Conference by the States that they were facing difficult budgetary problems due to wage rate increases and other factors. There were actually 2 sets of circumstances, it seems, which have put the States in the position of requiring these grants. One was the effect of wage payments on the States and the other was the removal of the taxation rebate for interest. This means that loans raised by the Commonwealth now are raised at a higher interest rate than was previously the case. 
If I may, I want to look at each of these 2 circumstances separately and I would like to draw the attention of the House to the document that was presented by the Premiers to the Premiers' Conference earlier this year. The document is entitled 'The Financial Relationships between the Commonwealth and the States'. It is a document of 30 or so pages and it is signed by all the then Premiers of the States. There has certainly been a change now in South Australia. It is signed by  Mr Askin, Mr Bjelke-Petersen, Mr Brand, Sir Henry  Bolte,  Mr Steele  Hall and  Mr Bethune,  the Premier of Tasmania. They began by outlining what they call the general statement of the problem. I want to mention the 3 matters they raised as leading to what they regard as their plight at the moment. They say that latterly the tendency has been for grants provisons in categories 4 and 5 - that is, special purpose provisions - to be expended significantly more than the provisions in categories 1 and 2. They had already been listed. The types of grants that are now made by the Commonwealth to the States in  categories 1 and 2 were general purpose grants and advances. Then the Premiers observed: 
This has meant that more and more the Commonwealth has been able by indirect means to take out of the hands of the States the determination of priorities of expenditures over a widening area of functioning in which the States have clear constitutional responsibility. 
In other words, the tendency has been for the Commonwealth to make grants not for the overall purposes of the States but to select matters that it thinks the States should be prodded into doing. Of course, often it is tied with what is called a matching grant. I had a letter today from the Colleges of Advanced Education in Victoria which indicated the difficulty that they face in that State because for every $1 that the Commonwealth provides the State has to find $1.85. They find great difficulty in paying this amount out of a short budget. They are suggesting that instead of the matching being on the bas;s of $1 from the Commonwealth and $1.85 from the 
State it ought to be at least on a $1 for $1 basis. But what is being suggested in this document is that the Commonwealth in essence is determining the priorities and the pattern of development of the States in those fields that are still the constitutional responsibility of the States. 
The second matter that they go on to note is this: 
The Commonweatlh serves the very same people as do the States.  in other words, they are saying that as well as being Victorians we are also Australians; as well as being Queenslanders we are also Australians. The document continues: 
The same people are served whether the public funds derived from them by the Commonwealth are spent upon, say, postal services and' civil aviation or upon education and hospitals, and whether they are spent by the Commonwealth Department of National Development or a Slate Department of Public Works. 
Then they observe: 
In point of fact those same people- 
That is, the citizens of the States as States:   . . would undoubtedly be belter served if the total funds they provide to all Governments combined were 'redistributed between the States and the Commonwealth in such fashion that they could be disbursed in priorities and in proportions as actual circumstances and requirements may justify. 
In other words, they are suggesting that the Commonwealth has the luxury of choice. It collects the revenue first. It decides it will spend a certain sum on, let us say, post offices and civil aviation. I have pointed out in the House before that if the capital expenditure on civil aviation is taken with the expenditure on post offices, which are Commonwealth functions, as against the capital expenditure on education and hospitals, which are mainly State functions, it will be found that there is a higher capital expenditure on civil aviation and post offices than there is on schools and hospitals. I have suggested before that if the people as a whole had a free choice as to whether they wanted more schools rather than more post offices or whether they wanted Tullamarine Airport rather than hospitals, I do not think there would be much doubt as to what the choice would be. But the choice is made in the first instance by the Commonwealth because it collects the money first, has the luxury of its own choice, and then what is left over goes to the States. This is  a  point made by the Premiers in this document. The third point that they note is this: 
There is a clear inference to be drawn from these comparisons that, as Commonwealth grants have failed to keep pace with the ' costs to the States of performing their functions at an acceptable level, the Stales have found it necessary lo increase rates of taxation and extend the fields of taxation to make good the deficiency. The strong evidence is that the States have not shirked their responsibility in this regard, though an untoward extension of State taxation can have undesirable community effects, apart from the increased severity of the levies. 
They point out in fact that they have no recourse for raising revenue except to indirect taxation. If one has a look at the total collections of the States as against the Commonwealth, whilst the States do not collect anything like the aggregate collections of the Commonwealth, nevertheless if a comparison was taken over a 10-year period - and the figures are available - it will be found that the States have increased their levy of taxation at a higher rate than the Commonwealth. Of course, they have had to recourse to this regressive indirect taxation. These are points that are made by the State Premiers to indicate the unsatisfactory sort of relationship between the Commonwealth and the States. I would not deny that there is a certain amount of special pleading in this document. I do noi accept everything that is in it. Nevertheless, the complaints are real enough that the Commonwealth in essence, by reason of the power of the purse or the financial domination, is able to set the pattern of development even in those fields that arc still the constitutional responsibility of the States. 
If we exclude such fields as defence and social services and look at what might be called the working field, the tendency has been for expenditure to rise more rapidly in the States than in the Commonwealth. Because overall grants to the States have been inadequate in order to fill the gap, the States have had recourse to regressive indirect taxation. I know it is difficult in  a  federal system to arrive at anything like an equitable pattern of distribution of financial resources in relation to constitutional responsibility. The March 1969 issue of the journal 'Public Administration' is devoted to a consideration of national planning and intergovernmental relations. Ohe of the papers was presented by Professor Russell 
Mathews. He entitled his paper 'National Planning and Intergovernmental Relations: Commonwealth Grants to the States'. He observes: 
The ultimate reason for inter-governmental grants in a federation is a lack of balance between the financial powers and responsibilities of the different levels of government. In Australia this is exemplified by a situation in which the States have the chief responsibility for nearly all the major functions of government other than defence, external relations, cash social service benefits and economic policy, while the Commonwealth controls the major sources of taxation and loan revenue. There are several courses of action that may be followed with a view to achieving better balance between financial powers and responsibilities, including: transfer of functions from the States to the Commonwealth; transfer of taxing powers or other revenue sources from the Commonwealth to the States; action to provide for the sharing of administrative responsibility or the co-ordination of economic decisions by both levels of government: action by the States to make more effective use of their existing financial powers; and increased use of Commonwealth grants within the framework of the existing division of responsibility. 
If one looks at the history of things to a great extent, one will find that all of those various devices have been adopted from time to time. I think that is also pretty clear from the situation that has developed in Australia. Professor Mathews has illustrated the various things that have happened. Use can be made of tax power directly and indirectly to do things that perhaps could not be done in a strict constitutional sense, and so on. He goes on: 
It will be clear from the foregoing that the amounts and allocations of Commonwealth payments to the States have been determined by a hotch potch of political bargains. . . . 
There was even a suggestion during the last State election in Victoria that certain things promised by the Premier had been guaranteed in advance by the Prime Minister of Australia. I do not know whether that is true, but at least the claim was made by the Premier of Victoria that the Prime Minister of Australia had guaranteed him that if he were returned the Prime Minister would give him certain things. In other words it was a political bargain. Professor Mathews goes on:  arbitrary and inflexible formula and ad hoc arrangements which for the most part appear to be unrelated to national policy objectives. 
He goes on to state: 
From the point of view of national planning, however, the grants machinery of the federal system should be designed to achieve an efficient allocation of resources within the framework of national economic objectives and both Commonwealth and State governments should be concerned with establishing criteria for this purpose. 
Professor Russell Mathews. I suggest that this is. just what has not happened in recent times. Australia is not evolving satisfactorily as a federal system. I suppose nobody gives greater lip service to the virtues of federalism than does the Government, and I suppose that nobody in practice does less to make it a satisfactory working system. As has already been pointed out, whether a person is in Victoria or in Queensland he is still an Australian. Surely the business of governments should be to secure the maximum overall development that is possible in terms of the available resources. I submit with all respect that that is not what is happening under the present arrangements. 
I know that a lot of suggestions have been made but  I do not  have  time to  answer them. At this time of night I do not want to go into them. We will have an opportunity when the formula comes up for review later on. There have been suggestions about splitting the income tax. I must say categorically that for one I believe in the uniform income tax system. I think it is the most systematic way of doing things. It means that anybody anywhere in Australia on the same income pays the same amount of tax. There is need to lodge only one taxation return. Nevertheless a great deal has to be done about getting a better formula for distributing the available resources among the various levels of government. I would hope that in the years ahead what is called the 'poor relation' of the system, the local governing unit, will not be omitted when something is done to redress the balance. 
I saw a statement the other day that 1 person in 5 in Australia lives in Sydney. Near enough to another 1 person in 5 lives in Melbourne. If we take all the capital cities of Australia they certainly aggregate more than half the population of Australia. It is extremely doubtful, when we take into account such complaints as are being made now about things like pollution and the sprawl of cities, whether they can be encompassed within the rather archaic arrangements that are called 'municipal governments'. I was having a look at some figures today for something else. In Australia there are something like 899 separate municipal bodies. Some of them must be pretty small. Some of them must be pretty puny. Some of them must be pretty inadequate when it comes to trying to solve the problems that beset us at the moment. 
In this document that the Premiers prepared they dealt in particular with the 2 matters that are the subject of these additional grants. The $12m is mainly to compensate the States for the effects of wage increases, and the other sum is to allow for alteration in interest policy, which I want to say something about afterwards. In part 4 of this document entitled Differential Effects of Wage Increases on Commonwealth and State Finances' it is pointed out that nowadays something like 1 person in 5 who is employed is employed in a government agency of one kind or another. Some people deplore this. Candidly, I think it will become more than I in 5 rather than less than 1 in 5. Nevertheless wages are a significant item in the budgets of both the Commonwealth and the States. On the other hand, when wage increases are made overall in our mixed economy something like 4 out of 5 of the increases are paid by private employers who are able to pass it on in prices or who have some other way of doing it. lt also increases the return of income tax, and increases it more than proportionately. This is what the Premiers say - and 1 am accepting the figures as fair enough: 
In summary, as a consequence of the $1.35 a week wage increase, the Commonwealth in 1968-69 gained $16m- 
That is the difference between what the Commonwealth had to pay in the wages of its own employees and what it collected in tax from all the employees in the Commonwealth -  and the States lost $14m, whilst for a full yea the Commonwealth would gain $24m and the Stales bear an impact of $13m. 
Then the Premiers go on to list a number of other difficulties that faced them. They state: 
A detailed analysis of the movements over the 10 years to 1969-70 in average wages and in other measures relevant to the escalation of the general purpose financial provisions of the State reveals the following estimates of average annual rates of increase: 
They are taking the 10-year period from 1959-60 to 1969-70. In that period population rose each year by an average of 1.96%. The number of wage and salary earners rose by an average of 3.31% each year. Aggregate wages and salaries rose by an average of 8.76% per annum. Average wages and salaries are distinct from aggregate wages. The aggregate wages reflect that there were 3.31 more people per hundred in the work force each year. Average wages and salaries increased 5.24% per annum. Pay-as-you-earn income tax at constant rates increased by 13.69% per annum. Pay-as-you-earn tax per wage and salary earner increased 10.01%, although the wages had gone up by only 5.24% . The yield of tax went up by nearly double - 10.01%. Pay-as-you-earn tax per 1000 of population rose by 1H% per annum. Other income lax on individuals at constant rates rose by 8.88% and income tax on companies at constant rates rose by 8.22% per annum. They simply cite these as the sort of difficult situation which faces them., a community that is growing in numbers and in costs,, and they are- dependent on a static formula for reimbursement. I mention these matters as part of the difficulties that face the States. Later on, when another measure comes before us, perhaps we can go into this matter in greater detail. 
I now want to refer to interest rales. Recently, as a matter of financial' policy, the Reserve Bank of Australia raised interest rates. Ultimately the Government is responsible for what the Reserve Bank does. At least, if the Government does not like what it does then it can complain. In the event of dispute the will of the Government prevails. However, interest rates increased. This has meant, of course, an overall rise in borrowing rates. Some 12 or 18 months ago there was removed from the taxation laws a rebate that previously had been made available to those who invested in Government securities. 
The rebate had been at the rate of 10c in the dollar and it had the effect of lowering the real interest rate payable. As a consequence the Commonwealth for the most part was able to float its loans at a lower interest rate than, for example, the semi-government and other bodies in the community. Of course, once the rebate was removed the Commonwealth had to pitch its interest rates somewhat higher. Since the money that the Commonwealth raises is lent in turn to the States at whatever the prevailing rate happens to be, it means that the prevailing rate to the States is now higher than previously. At least part of the Bil] before us is to compensate the States for the additional interest rate payable. This gets us into what are sometimes called circular arguments. 
No. not a vicious circle; just a circular argument. This leads to some rather curious bookkeeping results. One of the things which seems to disturb the State governments greatly - again J think it relates to the financial dominance of the Commonwealth - is that the Commonwealth mainly is able to finance its obligations, whether they be of an annual or a capital kind, out of revenue. The tendency in recent years has been for the direct part of the total national debt applicable to the Commonwealth to decline. On the other hand the amounts that are advanced by the Commonwealth to the States, even though some part of them is advanced out of revenue, are charged nevertheless to the States at the prevailing rate of interest. The other poor relations in the system, the semigovernmental and the local government bodies, have to raise their loans on the loan market at whatever the prevailing rate happens to be. 
The tendency in recent years has been that the amount of interest payable by the Commonwealth has declined and the amount payable by the States has increased considerably. In fact I think that the annual interest bill of the States, in aggregate, on a debt of something over $8,000m is in execess of $400m. I suppose the Commonwealth says: 'We take this interest liability into account when we make the reimbursements'. On the other hand, the local governing authorities and the semi-governmental bodies do not have that kind of defence available. They do not get any reimbursement. 
If one looks at the finances of some semigovernmental authorities one finds that more than half their total revenue is absorbed in paying interest on the debt. I refer to bodies such as the State Electricity Commission of Victoria. In the other States similar bodies have various names. Something like 10% of the total rates of local governing bodies are absorbed in interest rates. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  in one of his rather categorical statements, said recently that he would partly cut this rather difficult knot by saying that in future that part of the advance made by the Commonwealth to the States out of revenue would not bear interest any more. Whether in the long run this makes very much difference is arguable. A rather curious situation is being created by the intricate pattern of the financial relationships that apply particularly between the Commonwealth and the States whereby the Commonwealth, rightly or wrongly, calls the tune. 
I suppose that in theory I am a unificationist. lt will take a long while to get anything like a unitary system. Until we reach that day we have to make our existing pattern workable. I do not think anybody could suggest that the working arrangements at the moment are continuing without a great deal of friction. Whether the friction is imaginary sometimes rather than real leads to fine points of argument. Nevertheless I believe that by and large the States, in terms of the responsibilities that they still have to undertake - responsibilities such as education, health, public law, public transport and so on - really are inadequately reimbursed by the Commonwealth in relation to their responsibilities. Whether that means that the Commonwealth has to forgo some of the things that it does now or whether that means that in aggregate we may have to pay more taxes, I do not know, but I am sure that if the people in the States were asked they would agree that something has to be done. 
One has to look only at the sample of Slate elections recently to see that one of the most dominant issues was education. Education in Australia will not be improved unless the Commonwealth provides considerably more than it provides at present. Professor Karmel of the Adelaide University stated that at least 1% more of the gross national product should be spent on education- in the foreseeable future. That 1% of the gross national product is more than $270m. Whether this will be achieved by the Commonwealth cutting down on something it does already or whether it will be achieved by raising taxes is for the people to determine. Nevertheless, the situation that we have reached is rather serious. I hope that when the Bill to adjust the formula which, I believe, expires in June 1970, comes before us the matter will be given more serious consideration by the House than this Bill has received. 
The Government has brought this Bill on for consideration at midnight. I do not think anybody enjoys having to make the sort of speech that I am making at this time of night. I am sure that those listening to such speeches enjoy them less than do those who have to make them. But I think that there is a certain degree of irresponsibility about a parliament that will pass a Bill for the expenditure of $16m without really examining the legislation seriously. The Government is putting this Bill through at midnight, hoping that there will be only one speaker on it so that, when the Bill is dealt with, the House can pass on to some other matter. I think that the issues are too important to be escaped in that way. 
I hope that the Bill introducing the formula readjustment will be given more than cursory examination. Meanwhile, I would hope that those honourable members who have not done so already will read the submission which was made recently to the Commonwealth by the State Premiers. In fact I would think that, whether the Commonwealth likes it or not, it ought to make copies of the submission available to all honourable members of this House. I would suggest that course to the Treasurer. Even if it is not a Commonwealth document, it is a document submitted to the Commonwealth by the State Treasurers. A certain amount of special arguing is to be found in it but I think that sometimes a lot of special arguing on the part of the Commonwealth. takes place on this matter. Honourable members ought to be aware of what the views of the State Premiers are. This was a submission on which the 6 Premiers united. 
I seriously commend to the Treasurer the suggestion that he make arrangements to get sufficient copies of this document so that it can be circulated to all members of this House. If this is done, when the formula rearrangements are considered later at least this document will be part of the documentation that is available. If the Commonwealth believes that some of the statements in the submission are not based on sound grounds, I would hope that it would prepare a rebuttal of those statements and that that rebuttal might be circulated for the use of honourable members also. I am one who believes that the more information that we have on these complex problems the better it is. We are dealing with an amount of pretty large magnitude. When we take into account the reimbursement payments plus the capital works payments we find that the Commonwealth is providing approximately $2,000m to the States. If honourablehonourable members like, this is 8% of the gross national product. It is not small money and ! think that we should appraise it a little better than we do. The appraisal would be helped if we had available to us documents such as the one that I have mentioned. I conclude by restating that the Opposition does not oppose this measure because we think that it will give to the States a little bit more of the great deal more that they really need. 
In addressing a question to the Treasurer I refer to 2 matters arising from the Twenty-fourth Annual Report of the Insurance Commissioner recently tabled in this House. The first is an unsatisfactory aspect of superannuation business, namely the high rate of surrender of sums insured which amounted to S338m last year and to SI, 000m over the last 4 recorded years. The second aspect is the development of what is called investment linked life  insurance. Does not the high surrender rate of superannuation policies point to the need to do something about portability on a national basis? Further, what are the supposed virtues of investment linked life insurance? Are these policies being written by local or overseas companies? 
asked the Minister for Educa-lion and Science, upon notice: 
How many persons of Aboriginal blood are on Commonwealth Aboriginal study grants to the value of S 1,200 per annum. 
Of all these how many are (a) at universities in each Stale  Cb)  at colleges of advanced education or institutes of technology in each State and (c) nf mature age doing matriculation and leaving or their equivalent in each Slate. 
What other courses come into the eligible field for such grunts. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What has been the number of (a) registered unemployed and (b) registered vacancies in each State in each month since 1st July 1969, showing metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas separately. 
What have been the amounts of unemployment benefit payable in the same months showing metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas separately. 
I do not wish to add anything to what was said by my colleague, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  when he was discussing amendments to the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill. The proposed amendments show that the Senate does have some use on occasions and that it is able to contemplate these matters perhaps in more detail than we can in the Committee stages. It would seem that amendments of this type will become standard in Bills and we will not have to amend legislation because such provisions will be included from the beginning. 
While we are dealing with the question of Standing Orders, if I may I would like to refer to the document that you,  Mr Speaker,  tabled last week in respect to the amendment to the amendment. If 1 may say so with all respect, as I read the conclusions from May most of them dealt with an amendment to a mot on but none of them dealt with an amendment to an amendment, which 1 suggest was the matter that came before the House on the recent occasion. You certainly delved pretty deeply into history when you went back to what Pitt said in 1802. After all, political parties were somewhat different sorts of animals in 1802 than they are in 1970. I still submit that the Opposition in a Parliament has very few rights. Two of the rights that seem to me to remain still are, firstly, the adjournment of the House to discuss a matter of public importance where the Opposition literally takes the initiative as against the Government. The other matter that in my view is still fundamental to a parliamentary system is the censure motion or the motion of no confidence. With all respect I suggest that it ought to be referred as a matter of some importance to the Standing Orders Committee. I have suggested that a House ought to have recourse not only to its own Standing Orders and the invocation of Erskine May; occasionally it ought also to have recourse to common sense. On that bas s consideration should be given to amending the Standing Orders in such a way that what is accepted as a censure motion should be incapable of amendment. As I indicated the other evening, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was prepared to accept the motion as a censure motion. 1 say that with all respect to you,  Mr Speaker,  and I think you understand the reverence I have for your role. I have great respect also for pari amentary institutions as a form of government. There has been a lot of criticism in recent times about the Executive taking the initiative. Candidly, I do not think that in a democratic system we can do other than let the Executive take the initiative, but the Executive has to exercise its initiative with tolerance and without tyranny. In my view the events of recent times have come pretty close to being tyrannical. For what were pretty cheap motives, in my view, an attempt was made quite successfully to do certain things on the basis of rulings. I am not arguing about the rulings. I think that the references were pretty flimsy. I am sorry that I have not your document here with me at the moment,  Mr Speaker,  but this matter came up rather suddenly. With all respect, if you read the references to  Mr Howson's  motion you will see that it was an amendment to an amendment. You quoted May and cited the fact that if it is an amendment to a motion the House has the choice of deciding in favour of the motion or the amendment. I think that you get into pretty curious circumstances. The incidents of the other night began with a simple resolution that the paper be noted. My colleague, the honourable member for 
Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  moved an amendment to that, and then there was a further amendment. 
At that point 3 propositions were being considered. All I am saying,  Mr Speaker,  is that whatever his wit and sagacity nobody can resolve 3 questions simultaneously in a sensible way. You can resolve 2, by voting for 1 or supporting another but you cannot resolve 3 questions at the one time. I read your document rather carefully. I find that you are arguing about a motion and an amendment whereas the proposition before the House was a motion, an amendment to a motion and a further amendment. I hope, with all respect, that you will consider that matter again. 1 urge this on behalf of the Opposition. Honourable members opposite may be the Opposition tomorrow. lt is a fundamental right that an opposition should be able to challenge a government. 
As I see it, essentially the two grounds remaining to the Opposition are the motion for adjournment to discuss a matter of urgent public importance and the censure motion. If one is able to pervert or convert a censure motion by moving something else one is denying a fundamental right in the accepted history of British parliamentary institutions. I do not want to argue the point any further except to suggest that this matter, including your documentation,  Mr Speaker,  should be referred to a further meeting of the Standing Orders Committee. If there is any doubt about the ability to move an amendment to what is essentially a censure motion and if you invoke May to support it, the Standing Orders should be amended to make it impossible to do so. The Government chooses to stand on its numbers if it has them. When it has not the numbers to defeat the Opposition it chooses a pretty tawdry device, knowing that some of its members are wavering, to give them a third choice. I submit that 3 questions cannot be decided simultaneously. Sometimes it is difficult even to sustain 2 questions, but certainly you cannot sustain 3. I would suggest,  Mr Speaker,  with all respect to you, that you re-read your document. In it you talk about a motion and an amendment; you do not talk about a motion and 2 amendments which I submit is a pretty difficult proposition to resolve. 

 Mr STEWART (Lang) [10.I6J- I agree with practically all the comments that have just been made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  Honourable members will recall that both he and I took part in the discussions on the censure motion and want of confidence motion and took an attitude similar to the one that the honourable member has taken tonight. I, too, read your document,  Mr Speaker,  and found that I still could not agree with the document or your ruling. I rise to speak about the amendment to the Standing Orders that has been moved by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz).  The amendment comes from a recommendation made by the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications which brought up its report on 13th May 1964. I congratulate the Government on the rapidity of its action in bringing down this request to the Standing Orders Committee of the House to amend the Standing Orders. 
The reason that the Joint Select Committee gave for recommending that the Printing Committee, as it has been known - apparently it will now be known as the Publications Committee - inquire into and report on the printing, publication and distribution of parliamentary and government publications and all such matters as are referred to it by the Treasury, and send for persons, papers and records, was that during the course of the Joint Committee's inquiry we found that Government departments were doing virtually what they liked in the printing of their departmental publications. There was no overriding authority. The Treasury Publications Committee was supposed to look at the publications of Government departments, but the Committee found that quite often when the Treasury Publications Committee tried to do anything about it they were told by the senior Ministers to go and jump in the lake. 
The Printing Committee, as it has existed until now, is entitled to look only al the papers that have been tabled and referred to it for a decision as to whether they should be printed or not. The distribution of most of the publications is out of the hands of the Printing Committee. I still do not know who authorises the distribution of Government publications. The new amendment to the Standing Orders will allow the Publications Committee to inquire into and report on printing, publication and distribution. I think that it will have a salutary effect on the standard of publications by Government departments and statutory bodies. I think all honourable members will agree that since the size of the paper which is used has been altered, the format of a lot of the documents has been changed and more attractive covers have been placed on publications, there has been an immense improvement in the standard of parliamentary and government publications. 
For the sake of the recordI would like to name the members of the Committee which made this recommendation. The honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  was the  Chairman  and I was the Vice-Chairman. The other members were Ex-Senator Marie Breen,  Senator Marriott, Senator Lionel  Murphy,  Senator Toohey,  the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and the former honourable member for Sturt,  Mr Keith  Wilson. I think the recommendations which the Committee made were, in most instances, good ones. A lot of them have been applied already. I repeat that this matter was in the hands of the Government from 13th May 1964 until being referred to the Committee on 8th April 1970. I must commend the Standing Orders Committee for the fact that it took only from 8th April 1970 to 1st June 1970 to bring down its recommendation. 
The Government is not trying to keep to it at all. All it is trying to do is to get through the business this week. There is no commitment for the sessionto end this week. The Government might like tofinish this week. Probably a lot of other people would like us to finish this week. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  is to speak next but 1 have no doubt that his cunning contrivance is to have what he says appear in some newspaper that is published on Thursday or Friday. 
If the honourable member thinks to the contrary then that is fair enough but I am sure in all honesty that that is all he wishes to do. But do honourable members think that the world is taking notice of what we say at 1.25 a.m.? Do they think that we are making a very brilliant spectacle of ourselves by debating at this hour such a fundamental matter as the wool industry? My colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has made the speech on behalf of our side, but we are not short of speakers. If the Government wants it that waywe will match it  speaker  for  speaker.  But itis the Government which wants to have this legislation passed. If all of us have to be here at this hour merely so that the honourable member for Kennedy can have something reported in-- 
The 'Burketown Times', the 'Best of the West', or whatever the newspaper is called. If that is the position, I believe that some of us are entitled to protest about it. If the Government wants to hear a speech about the future of the wool industry, that is fair enough, andI am prepared to make it. I agree that this is the most fundamental industry as far as Australia's export earnings are concerned. We on this side of the House are not denying that. What we are suggesting is that members of the Government parties are not as concerned as they ought to be because the product is still something that the world wants to buy. Apparently people are still buying it at a lesser price despite the fact that all costs are rising. 
But that is not the matter that honourable members opposite seem to be raising this evening. They are just trying to score points in a pretty obscure way.If the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  wants to keep this debate going, I point out to him that at the moment the speakers on the list are all from his side but, although honourable members opposite may think that they are making additional points, I have listened for the last hour or so-- 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  that is for you to decide.I thought I was talking about the wool industry. The honourable member for Kennedy has decided that what he wants to say is important-- 
And that what I want to say is unimportant. 
It is all right for the Minister to say that we have suspended the Standing Orders to permit business to bc introduced after 1 1 o'clock, but I am saying that we have had enough of this debate at this stage. I wish to move, in whatever form I have to do it, that the debate be now adjourned. I should have thought that 1 could move that motion. Why cannot I move that the debate be now adjourned? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)I point out that under standing order 87 an honourable member who has not spoken to the question or who has the right of reply may move the adjournment of the debate. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has spoken in the debate. Therefore under standing order 87 he does not have the right to move that the debate be adjourned. 
May 1 move, as has been suggested by the experts at the table, that I be given leave to continue my remarks tomorrow? 
Well, this is still the same day in a parliamentary session. Perhaps the sitting could be adjourned, as was done on a previous occasion, and you could start another day. But this is still the same parliamentary day. All I am asking is that I have leave to continue my remarks tomorrow. 
Of course, I regret that these measures are to be dealt with at this time of night and in these circumstances. 
It is; I can agree with my new friend that it is absurd, but we have agreed to what is described as a cognate debate, although in a sense the measures are entirely different. I indicate that the Opposition intends to oppose the Loan (Defence) Bill, under which it is proposed to borrow $10Om from the United States of America, although I will only formally oppose it tonight as I do not want to divide the House. Nevertheless, we will oppose that Bill while, with regard to the Loan Bill, which the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has described as a technical measure, we offer no objection. Regarding the Opposition's reasons for opposing the loan from the United States of America of $100m for defence purposes, basically we think that defence should be paid for as we go. It is an expendable item for which we should not incur debt or borrow, overseas. Australia has a deficiency of reserves at present, if we have to procure defence equipment overseas. After all, we have had the fiasco in recent times of the Fill. In the course of his speech, the Treasurer was careful to point out that none of the $100m would go on the ill-fated Fill venture. In fact, he has implied that he still has $75m unspent on that account for which authority has already been given. The other rather peculiar aspect of this measure is that although it is a Loan Bill the loan has not yet been arranged. The Treasurer used the following rather curious words: 
It is expected that the Export-Import Bank of the United States will provide the loan funds to be raised under this legislation. We are at present negotiating with the Bank for this purpose, and the Bill has been drafted to provide authority for the Commonwealth to accept the usual provisions of Export-Import Bank loan agreements. 
I am not sure what he means by 'the usual provisions'. No rate of interest is quoted, and it seems to me to be a peculiar kind of exercise to ask for a blank cheque, as it were, with interest rates being as high as they are at present and with borrowings being raised overseas at a rate as high as 9%. No term has been quoted. 1 would have thought that at least the term should have been arranged before the sanction of the House was sought. Briefly those are the reasons for objection to this measure. I maintain that for defence we should pay as we go. We certainly should not borrow in the United States on terms that are not even set down. So much for that measure. 
I now want to say one or two things about the second of these measures which I think the Treasurer described as virtually a machinery measure to enable the Government to carry out policies approved under the various Acts authorising expenditure, the raising of revenue and financing transactions. He claims that the measure is necessary to authorise,- if need be, what is known as the Government deficit in this particular year. Broadly, the Commonwealth Government aims to raise and to spend sums in the region of $7,000m. That is roughly the expected revenue from all sources. The expenditure is almost a like amount, but there is a difference of $30m, a deficit. Tn other words, spending is to exceed potential revenue by the sum of $30m. The rather curious thing about the Budget documents these, days is that we seem to have more documentation but in many respects the whole thing is becoming harder to comprehend. We now have attached to the Budget Speech when it is brought down a document known as Statement 6 which presents the Budget in what is described as national accounts form. When the Budget is laid down, whilst technically every dollar that we spend has to be accounted for, nevertheless in the course of a year there are a. number of transactions which the Government is not able to predict in advance. Reading such information as is available to us, it seems that certainly the outcome at this stage of the year is far from being clear, and the picture is certainly very much different from what it was at this time 12 months ago. 
I should like to quote from the latest monthly summary issuing from the Treasury of Commonwealth financial transactions for 1969-70. It deals with the situation to 31st May 1970. They are the latest figures available to me. The Treasurer may have some later figures. In the course of his second reading speech on this Loan Bill he indicated that there had been a different result in the overall loan market this year from that which had been expected. The main reason seems to have been that this year there was a greater degree of redemption of loans than on previous occasions. In other years, as Joans came due for conversion the tendency was for people to put the- money back into new loans. However on recent occasions they have chosen to redeem the loans - in other words, they have asked for their cash and have put it into something other than government securities. 
It seems to me that this makes a considerable difference to the potential situation. The sums involved amount to about $500m, or  2%  of the gross national product. Whether people convert their loans and put their money into private rather than government activity can make some overall difference, certainly to the Budget situation and perhaps to the total economy. 
Interesting differences have arisen in the I I months to 31st May 1970 compared with what happened in the 1 1 months to 31st May 1969. In 1969 the then Treasurer had from the United States more than $62m in defence credits. This year the sum availed of has been only $18.5m. In 1969 the Government obtained borrowings abroad amounting to $105m whereas this year there has been repayment of moneys overseas to the extent of nearly $114m. There is a fairly significant difference in aggregate. Whereas last year the Government had nearly $168ra available from overseas sources, this year there has been a net retirement on the overseas account of approximately $95m. There has been a marginal difference of about $250m on that account. 
The next item which is significantly different from that of last year relates to loans in Australia. At 31st May 1969 the net proceeds of loans in Australia was $367m. This year it was only S242m. So there is an adverse difference of $125m. The next item also reveals a considerable difference this year against that of last year. I refer to the change in treasury notes on issue. In the 1969 period there was a reduction of S19m whereas this year there was an increase of $116m. That has been used mainly to finance the wheat pool arrangements. As honourable members know, we have a lot of wheat that we cannot sell but under the arrangements an advance is made to the growers. The Treasury has financed that by recourse to treasury notes. Net advances to the Australian Wheat Board this year show a debit of $2 18m. Until 31st May 1969 there had been actually a retirement of borrowings from the Reserve Bank of $133m. This year actual borrowing from the Reserve Bank to the end of May has been J 100m. Again that shows a net difference of $233m.  1 was interested to see the other day that the Treasurer hopes to be the first Treasurer to present what are known as 'forward estimates of expenditure'. I would have preferred the Treasurer to do what was done in the United Kingdom in respect of this matter, that is, to issue what is known as a Green Paper - not a White Paper. This Paper was prepared and presented in April 1969. The explanatory note at the beginning of the Green Paper deals with- certain aspects of the relationship between the Executive and Parliament in the held of public expenditure, lt continues to explain that it sets out a number of proposals for changes in present arrangements which the Government is submitting to the Select Committee on Procedure for its consideration. The explanatory note concludes by saying ' that in view of the importance of the subject the Government is issuing the Green Paper so that its proposals may form the basis of wider public discussion. 
I submit with all respect to the Treasurer that there is need for a certain amount of public discussion in Australia also on these matters. I commend lo him the suggestion that he issue in advance noi so much the actual figures but an indication of what he proposes for this 5-year estimate, lt would be in no sense binding for the 5 years but would be an estimate for as far as could be seen at that stage. In Great Britain this system arose from the recommendations of an earlier committee, known as the Plowden Committee, which said that regular surveys should bc made of public expenditure as a whole over a period of years ahead and in relation to prospective resources. So as well as anticipating what the expenditure will be some attempt could be made to assess what the revenue might be. Of course it would be necessary to presume the continuance of tax rates at the same rate; it would not be possible to indicate that in 3 years time the rate of income tax would be increased. 
There are certain limits to forward planning. Nevertheless, there is an indication that public expenditure is not something that we think about only at the time of a Budget but that it has a relationship to what has been done before and what is expected to flow from that into the years ahead. I am glad that we are to have something of that kind, but 1 think the Treasurer might have educated us a bit better if he had adopted the same practice as has been introduced in Great Britain. Had the hour not been so tate 1 would have liked to go further this evening into what seem to be some limits of the Budget in the context of the Australian situation as we find it. I think I mentioned the other evening in the course of another financial debate that we have virtually thrown away fiscal policy in Australia as a weapon. Because of that we have to rely more than we should on monetary policy. Monetary policy for the most part, when it is applied in Australia, is applied in the form of the bludgeon of rising interest rates. 1 would commend to the Treasurer observations that were made in the most recent issue of the 'Australian Economic Review' published by the Department of Applied Economics at the University of Melbourne. This document, which contains a survey of the Australian economy up to the end of the March quarter, points to some of the difficulties that arise from the pay-as-you-earn method of taxation, under which, broadly, the same amount of deductions is collected each month. But in the first 2 months of the financial year and even in September very heavy refunds are made to taxpayers out of the Commonwealth account, and subsequently these amounts find their way into the banking system and there is an increase in liquidity in those months. The opposite situation prevails in the period from March to June when what are called the larger taxpayers begin to get their provisional assessments and when companies have to pay their taxation. During those months we get what is called a run down in liquidity. This of course makes for some difficulty in the Australian context. Certainly the difficulty is compounded if we are not being very successful in our debt management or loan market transactions. This, it seems, is the situation the Treasurer believes we hit in the Australian economy a month or two ago. 
I must say that I concur with the general observations in the 'Australian Economic Review'. 1 made the same sort of criticism in this House some month or two ago when these matters were discussed. I said that in essence, . pricewise if you like or in terms of inflation, the situation in Australia is not any worse than it has been for the past 5 or 6 years. It is pretty true that the drastic measures that have been applied with respect to interest rates have perhaps had one or two rather interesting side effects. One of them of course is that there has been a severe cut down on home building. The victims of that are certainly not the people .who are. responsible for the inflationary tendencies in the community. The other odd effect is that the Treasurer seems to have attracted to this country in the months of April or May a certain amount of foreign money. Whether it has come here just on a hot basis because the interest rate is higher now than it was and will flow out again after a short period, I do not know. But at least it may tide the Treasurer over what he thought would be a balance of payments difficulty. 
Nevertheless I think all .of this points to some need at least to refine the situation in Australia in order to control these waves of economic activity which gives us too much liquidity at some times and too little liquidity at other times. A publication called 'Trans City Discount Limited Money Market Review News Letter' for May 1970 stated: 
The Commonwealth's borrowings from the Reserve . Bank had reached an awe inspiring $8 18m at the end of December but had fallen to $537ra by the end of March. Cash in the system was then already tightening and the excess of revenues over expenditure by the Commonwealth for the final quarter still to come was estimated at some $900m. Such a contraction coming after  2  years of easy money when a high flying stock market had been accompanied by a proliferation and expansion of non-bank financial intermediaries, could only have a very severe impact on an over extended credit base. 
That points to the very wide fluctuations that have taken place in the recourse to Reserve Bank credit During the time when the money has not flowed in and the bills have continued to come in, the Commonwealth has to have some means of meeting its obligations. Nevertheless, the system is of such a kind that the economy does get these very big troughs and reverses of troughs in the course of a financial year. This year some of the difficulty was compounded by reason of the difficulty with respect to the loan market. The principal difficulty there was that the people who had the option of converting did not convert but chose to take their cash instead. It will be rather interesting at the end of June, when the final wash up comes, to see what the final picture actually is. It certainly is very much different from what it was 12 months ago, although on that occasion the Treasurer was budgeting for a much smaller deficit than for the previous year. This is what he said: 
This year we expect the Budget to produce a domestic surplus of about $500m. This would withdraw a similar amount from the money supply. 
I am not sure that that kind of situation has not been confounded by results. Because of transactions that the Government has had to indulge in this domestic surplus of about $500m has not been produced but rather what has happened is that the Government has an excess of action in what might be called the private sector of the economy as against what the Government anticipated would be the situation in the public sector. I am not too sure that the Budget forecast has not come unstuck. I would be interested later on, perhaps on some other occasion, if the Treasurer might expand a little upon that theme. It is not very fair to have to talk about this matter and to listen at this time of night. It is a very unsatisfactory kind of situation. The House has before it two measures that involve in aggregate about $130m. They came on at about 2.45 a.m. There will be no further opportunity until the next Budget to discuss them more fully. I certainly register my protest at the way in which important business of this House is being transacted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
This document was given to me at a time when it was presumed that there would be approximately 2 hours for this debate. It it had come on as it ought to have come on virtually immediately after question time it would have come on at 10.42, which would have made the debate short enough. It would have allowed us 2 hours, which in all conscience is short enough onthese important measures. But we have spent something like 45 minutes on other business at the expense of this matter. I merely suggest that the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  had in mind allowing approximately 2 hours for this debate. I protest even about that. But I think at least he ought to restore the 2 hours and now bring down an amended schedule that will allow us 2 hours from the time he puts this urgency proposition. There are a number of people who want to speak on these Bills. 
I move the following amendment to the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill: 
That all the words after 'that' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading as it is of opinion that the Bill provides a cumbersome and regressive means of compensating the States for the revenue they lost through their Receipts Duty Acts having been declared unconstitutional'. 
What we have before us is what I have chosen to describe as a constitutional contrivance. This is the first time to my knowledge that the Commonwealth on behalf of the States, without there being complementary legislation at the State level, has sought to pass legislation which it is not competent for the Slates themselves to undertake. 
 The honourable member points to a precedent that slightly lessens my argument on historical circumstances. lt is certainly true of the tax measure, but we have had examples where marketing legislation could not be followed unless certain things were done at the State level. What is proposed here is a scheme by which the Commonwealth will collect, on behalf of the States, taxes which, if levied separately by the States, would be regarded as unconstitutional. Two cases relating to these taxes have been decided by the High Court of Australia. The first case was instituted by the Hamersley Company against the Government of Western Australia and one was instituted in Victoria by a motor car firm, the name of which I cannot recall. The decisions in those cases were that a large part of the receipt taxes that were being imposed by the States of Victoria and Western Australia were unconstitutional because they were, in the view of the High Court, excise taxes, and the Constitution provides that only the Commonwealth may levy an excise. 
We have 5 measures that 1 have described as a schemata, or a scheme of arrangement. The States Receipts Duty (Administration) Bill seeks to appoint a collecting agent in each of the States for excise and customs duties. Then there is a Bill to deal with excise and one to deal with customs, as the Constitution provides that only one subject of taxation can be dealt with in each measure. Another Bill invokes section 96, under which the Commonwealth may make grants to the States. What in essence is to happen is that the Commonwealth's legal authority is to be used to impose what has been described as an excise tax, which is also in some cases pardy a customs duty, the Commonwealth will use the State as an instrumentality to collect that tax, and such moneys as are paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Commonwealth as a result of these measures will then be paid over to the various States in terms of  section 96. 
That position is bad enough without at this stage discussing the inequitable nature of this tax. 1 merely point out the devious constitutional contrivance that has had to be undertaken to give this system any legality. The further objection is that these taxes purport to be imposed on behalf of the States. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  took issue with my colleague, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the other day. The Prime Minister in his Press statement of 10th June 1970, No. 65 of 1970, chided the Leader of the Opposition in these terms: 

 Mr Whitlam seems to be under 2 false impressions. One is that it is he and not the Government which decides what are election issues. The other is that he is thwarting the Commonwealth Government when in fact he is thwarting the States. He is apparently threatening that the Labor Party in the States House, the Senate, will deny the States access to a field of growth tax to which they want access, and trying to claim that this affects the Commonwealth Government. In fact, in this matter, the Commonwealth Government is only acting at the request of the States, as the agent for the States, to enable them to collect revenue in the future which they would not otherwise be able to collect. 
All I would submit is that if the Prime Minister claims that this is being done at the request of the States 1 am sure that the States would wish that he observed a lot more of their requests with the same sort of enthusiasm as he seems to be willing to apply to this one alone. The Prime Minister continued: 
This revenue would be in addition to any agreed amounts made available from the Commonwealth Revenue as a result of the new arrangements being worked out between us and the States. 
That is a very different attitude from the one the Prime Minister took when  Sir Henry  Bolte first suggested imposing this tax, particularly as it applied to wages. The Prime Minister continued: 
Labor will therefore deny the Slates the capacity to help themselves in the future. 
If this sort of flimsy justification is given to sanction any sort of unjust tax merely on the ground that, as the Prime Minister says, the States have requested it, that is not consonant with the attitude expressed by the States recently. I referred last week to the combined statement of the 6 Premiers on Commonwealth and State financial relations. That document is available to honourable members. It points to the fact that if the States did need to raise additional revenue the only courses open to them were resort to regressive indirect taxation. 
To highlight the situation 1 point out what is the totality of taxation in Australia. I quote from one of the numerous documents submitted by the Treasury, that is the 'Supplement to the Treasury Information Bulletin - National Accounting Estimates of Public Authority Receipts and Expenditure', which was published in December 1969. That shows that for the year 1969-70 the est mated total amount of taxation that will be collected in Australia at all levels of taxation - Commonwealth, State, local authority together with another item that is not often noted, the surplus on public authorities - will be $7,602m. Those bodies such as State electricity commissions and gas and fuel corporations or whatever they are called in the various States, charge more for their services than those services cost. This appears as a surplus in the books of public authorities. In addition to the total amount of taxation collected at those 3 levels, these receipts charged for services in excess of what those services cost, will amount to $1,343m. That makes the total of receipts by all public authorities - Commonwealth, State, local, semi-governmental and public utility- S8.945m. 
Indirect taxes, the category into which the present proposal will fall, will yield $3,376m which, is understandable terms, is between 12% and 13% of the gross national product. Income taxes on companies will yield $l,173m, income taxes on persons will yield $2,840m, and estate and gift duties will yield $2 13m. When one looks at the separate pattern of the States and local authorities one finds that virtually all the taxes which the States raise are in the category of indirect taxes. According to the latest information I have, taxes imposed directly by the States amount to $800m. Those imposed by local authorities are in excess of $300m. At least a sum of $70m, which is what the Treasurer suggests will be yielded by this tax, is significant enough as related to the total revenue on which the States rely. That is in the region of 10% of the revenue that they collect themselves. Such a tax is regressive and as a flat level of tax is unfair. It is of the crudest type. There is a lot of discussion these days in some other enlightened countries about what is called a value added tax, but at least value added means the difference between the income received and what it costs to earn that income. But in this case it is levied in total on the turnover, irrespective of what the ratio of expenses to turnover is. To my mind that is the harshest and most regressive form in which this tax will impact on sections unable to defend themselves and being justified, presumably, by the action of this Government and the opinion of the Prime Minister. 
The other day I received an issue of the Manufacturers Bulletin* published by the Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales. That publication deals with what are called rural factory costs. It says: 
Country firms in New South Wales have estimated that the overall disadvantage of a country factory location is about 1% on sales, according to a Government survey released last night by the Minister for Decentralisation and Development,  Mr J.  B. Fulton. 
I cite that as an example of one of the disadvantages suffered by those who want the cities to become less agglomerate and the towns to be more populated. At least this measure that is before us is going one-tenth of the way to worsening that situation and if, as I am told, we take into relationship the totality of turnover in relation to expenses of course the impact is much higher still. I think we have all received the communication from that energetic firm in Queensland known as Tickle Holdings Pty Ltd. The letter, I understand, was sent to every member of this House because the tax will be imposed far more heavily in Queensland than previously because Queensland had only a limited sort of receipts duty tax, which I am told was about one-fifth crf the level prevailing in some of the other States.  Mr C.  G. Tickle, the  Chairman  of Directors, mentions - apparently with approval - the statement by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who comes from the State of Queensland, that this i« committing piracy at the expense of Queenslanders. 1 will be interested to hear what some of the other Queenslanders have to think about this act of piracy. 
We heard a lot the other night about hijacking aeroplanes. At least that sort of piracy has not yet occurred in Australia but apparently a different act of piracy is being perpetrated in this country by this obnoxious sort of legislation.  Mr Tickle  goes on to indicate that the impact of the tax in the case of Queensland means increasing it - according to his figures - by something like 744%. He gives the example of a present duty of 48c in tha! State which under the new arrangements will rise to $4.05. He has done the necessary arithmetic to show that this is 744% greater. Perhaps that may be an extreme example, but nevertheless J do not think there can be any argument but that that tax is a crude form of raising revenues. 1 was rather astonished at an explanation the Treasurer gave in his speech that he thought that what was being done was helping to restrain inflation. It would seem by that sort of logic that if he made the tax 5 times as great he might entirely solve his problem of inflation, but to carry that sort of argument to that degree shows how absurd it is. 
There are some other people who think that you control inflation by the rationing of the purse. The attitude on our side is that when you take this sort of measure the people who are penalised are the people who least deserve to be penalised because it operates in this crude way. It seems that the tax is not to be imposed on wages any longer. I suppose that is some improvement. Let me refer to an answer which the Premier of Victoria gave in the State Parliament on 3rd March 1970 to the  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party,  Mr Wilkes,  of Northcote, who had asked: 
Will the Premier and Treasurer advise the House what is the actual position in relation to the 1 cent in $10- 
Which is the impact of it - on wages and salaries and whether Victorians are still obliged to pay the lax? 
This is the answer that  Sir Henry  Bolte gave: ) thank the honourable member for his question. The position is as it has been during the past 3 or 4 years, that until the relevant Act is repealed, on a date to be proclaimed, it is a legitimate tax. In fact, it is rather strange that, according to the High Court, this is about the only portion of the Act that is valid - and the part relating to payment on services. However, I have indicated that the Government proposes to repeal this section of the Act. This will be done shortly, bill the Act *ill still operate until the date on which the amendment is proclaimed, which obviously will be the 30th June. 1 presume he means 30th June 1970. Whilst it is not said in the legislation that the Treasurer or the Prime Minister has similar assurances from other States that they intend to do this, the taxing of wages is specifically excluded, but I merely point out that it is still - according to the High Court of Australia - competent for the State to impose the tax in terms of wages and services. I would like to have some assurance that the Treasurer has an assurance from all the States that this obnoxious form of taxation will not be imposed in a flat way on wages, which is the case legally in Victoria at the moment and this will prevail, apparently, until 30th June 1970. 
The Opposition is not unmindful of the difficulties that face the Slates financially and we have suggested that there ought to be a much more considerate treatment of the States than has been the case. We point out that the formula for reimbursement comes up for review in any case after 30th June 1970. If the States are in any immediate difficulty as far as their own works and services are concerned for the remainder of th s financial year - which is a matter of only about 3 weeks - the Commonwealth should pay them such emergency sums as are necessary to carry on pending a complete revision of that formula and, T hope, as soon as is possible a complete rewriting of the taxation structure of Australia which has become ossified. If the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay),  who is interjecting, reads this document he will see that the States have no love for this resort to indirect taxes. The States say that because the Commonwealth does not treat them adequately they have no other recourse. 
A lot of people want independence and they want money as well and sometimes the two are a bit difficult to reconcile. I find the argument a little bit intriguing about the people who want independent schools and also want money from the Government. At least the 2 lines occasionally become crossed. 
Our policy is that we believe in the continuance of uniform taxation. We believe that in a federal system an income tax is most easily and most equitably applied at one level; mat it does not lend itself to division according to the different levels of the federation because of the disparity in respect of resources; and that it is part of the job of a federal mechanism to equal se the differences. But that tax structure has been allowed to continue unaltered, and if the honourable member will read the article that I cited last night but which I did not have time to develop further because of the lateness of the hour - the article in the last issue of the 'Australian Economic Review' - he will find that because wages are estimated to rise by something like 13% this year there will automatically be an increase of weekly tax deductions of over 17% going automatically into the Commonwealth coffers. Some people are predicting, on the basis of an analysis of the Treasury figures to the end of May by comparison with the same period 12 months ago, that it is likely that there will be an excess of Commonwealth revenue th:s year of at least $70m over what was estimated when the Budget was written, and that therefore the Commonwealth is in a position at this stage, pending the review of the financial arrangements, to pay to the States sufficient to compensate them for what they would collect by this rather dubious and devious method of taxation. 
Al the moment the argument is about the $70m. I am nol suggesting that $70m may be all that the States require but at least in respect of these measures they have said that, throughout the 6 States, we will collect $70m by this rather unjust method of taxation, and rather than add any worse tax to an already bad system consideration should be given early to rewriting the whole tax structure in Australia. It cannot be deferred indefinitely on the bas:s that the time is not ripe. Virtually what we are doing in Australia is using the taxation system to get out of some of the difficulties of inflation, which is occurring because we are not grappling properly with other problems. The victims of this kind of system are the people least able to bear it, particularly those on what are called lower and middle incomes - and the term middle' is perhaps a little wide - and especially where the family is a married unit with children and where the wife is unable or unwilling to work. 1 am not one who believes that a home with young children is better because the children are put in a creche or somewhere else. 
If people want to work, fair enough; but many people in this circumstance are unable to work because they place the care of their children above what they might gain as a wage. They are the people who are most harshly hurt by the burdens of direct and indirect taxation. I simply ask any honourable member here a question. We talk about the average weekly wage. If he were getting $72 a week and had a wife and several children to keep, would he think that he would have much surplus left over and that he had not been affected when automatically, as he got a wage increase, a large part of it would simply be taken back into the tax system, and as interest rates rose he would pay higher for durables? 
Such people will be affected. The total turnover of a greengrocer, for example, will be taxed under this dubious procedure - not his net income but his total turnover. Surely to goodness this is a simple lesson in economics which the gentleman from Queensland in his letter tried to point out. I am not saying it will be passed on. He says that he does nol believe that it can be other than passed on, and if it is passed on, to whom is it passed on? Who arc the greatest customers of the grocers, greengrocers, butchers and bakers in Australia? Surely this is according to the size of the family unit. Like me, the honourable member has more han 2 mouths to feed. The inequity of this system is that it passes on this kind of regressive system of taxation. The Government may, some day, like to review the total structure of tax in Australia and build into it this rather complicated system of value-added tax which some people advocate - and it is more complicated to impose than those who seem to justify it elsewhere claim. But until the Government begins to look at the whole structure of taxation in Australia, particularly the income tax, it certainly should not add further to the pattern of unfair indirect taxes. 
I think, i have made all the points J wanted to make. This is a constitutional contrivance to get around an adverse decision of the court. Whilst the tax purports to be imposed for the States it arises out of the dire financial circumstances of the States. It adds to the pattern of indirect taxation in Australia. The Government should be reviewing the relationships of the Commonwealth and the States within the next few months, but pending that review the Government should tide the States over by paying to them such emergency amounts as they justify. In conclusion 1 read again the amendment, which is as follows: 
Thai all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading as it is of opinion that the Bill provides a cumbersome and regressive means of compensating the States for the revenue they lost through their Receipts Duly Acts having been declared unconstitutional'. 
asked the Minister for Trade  and Industry, upon notice: 
What isthe value of (a) items of handicraft imported into Australia from less-developed countries and eligible for customs duty exemption and (b) other goods imported from less-developed countries and subject to preferential duty introduced by the Government, in each of the years 1966-1967, 1967-68 and 1968-69. 
What is the estimated loss of customers revenue as a result of duty concessions granted on imports from less-developed countries. 
What is the value of quotas granted for the importation of specified goods from less-developed countries in each of the years 1966-67, 1967-68 and 1968-69. 
What is the value of quotas taken up by importers in each of the years 1966-67, 1967-68 and 1968-69. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he received a letter from  Mr Frank  Power, a Justice of the Peace of Elwood, Victoria, replying to his letter of 27th February 1970, in relation to the possibility of achieving uniformity throughout the Commonwealth in the provision of swifter compensation payments for victims of the road toll. 
If so, has consideration been given to the question whether section SI of the Constitution could be used by the Commonwealth, following the example of the uniform legislation relating to life insurance passed in 1945, to pass uniform legislation in the field of third party insurance. 
Is it a fact that the respective Ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory on third party insurance are quite different. 
Is he able to say whether the Acts of the six States relating to third party insurance are all completely different. 
Is it a fact that under the current rule of negligence many road victims wait for over five years before their cases are heard and that some victims fail to prove negligence on the part of the motorist and so receive no compensation. 
Has the Australian Transport Advisory Council yet obtained a report on the findings of the recent inquiry by the New South Wales Government into third party insurance in that State. 
Will he give an assurance that in any Commonwealth consideration of third party insurance the merits of adopting in Australia the Canadian system of 'liability without fault' in car accident cases with the swift compensation it provides for victims, will be carefully weighed. 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in Time magazine of 26th January 1968 stating that in neighbouring States of the United States of America and Canada, motorists operating under similar conditions, pay over one-third more for third party insurance under the conventional negligence rules than the motorists in Canada where the 'liability without fault' insurance is in operation. 
Could the Commonwealth, in those areas completely under its jurisdiction such as the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, implement the Canadian scheme without reference to the States. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth Actuary in his report covering the investigation of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund over the period 1959-64, presented to the House on 29th May 1968, indicate that certain statistical and technical data were not available to enable him to calculate suitable rates of contribution and that the absence of information made it difficult to verify the accuracy of data supplied to him. 
If so, what action has since been taken to rectify this deficiency. 
Was an internal auditor added to the staff of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board; if so, when. 
Did or will the appointment of such an auditor expedite the completion of the fourth quinquennial investigation. 
When will the report on this quinquennial investigation become available. 
Is the report of the Commonwealth Actuary on the third quinquennial investigation (1959-64) available for perusal by contributors to the Fund. 
Did investigation of the Fund in terms of the first and second quinquennial investigations disclose a surplus position in the fund. 
If so, what action was taken in regard to the surpluses. 
What was the surplus revealed by the third quinquennial investigation. 
Does the level of this surplus imply that contribution rates are excessive. 
Did the Twentieth Annual Report of the Board imply that the Fund was taking a place among the large superannuation and investment institutions in Australia. 
If so, are existing administrative arrangements within the Fund adequate. 
Was any undertaking given by the Prime Minister at the last Premiers' Conference thai in the event of the failure to pass the receipts duty scheme of legislation the Commonwealth would reimburse the States the amount of revenue lost by their inability constitutionally to impose such taxation, which would amount to a sum of about $70m? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to raise 2 matters which I think concern you as custodian of the House. Firstly, on Tuesday of this week, the day on which the Budget was introduced, deputations of pensioner groups from various States were present as usual. At some stage during the day they were excluded from entry into the House. It was a cold day, but they had to stand outside and present cards through the door to their various representatives. As a result of representations to you by my colleague, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor),  they were ultimately admitted to Kings Hall. I would like to know why these citizens of the Commonwealth were excluded from access to the House. 
The second matter I wish to raise relates to the various air conditioned rooms in which attendants of the House sit. I refer mainly to level U in the House, the floor on which I have my office. In the last few weeks - certainly since this session commenced - somebody has been sitting on a chair outside the chamber. Apparently this enables him to have a long view of the corridor. I do not know why this is being done. If you know about it,  Mr Speaker,  will you tell us why it is being done? It seems to me to be a very curious situation to have somebody sitting outside the air conditioned offices on these cold days. Everyone working in the House is entitled to work in an air conditioned office. I have great pride in the people who work in this House and I would like to know why someone has to sit in a corner under such circumstances. Apparently it is because such a person has a long view of the corridor. I would like some explanation,  Mr Speaker,  if you know of this practice. 
The Opposition supports this measure, which is an extension of the book bounty legislation which was before the House in September 1969. With some prescience on our part the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  who was a back bencher at that stage, and I indicated during the course of the debate on that occasion that the amendment which is now being considered by the House might be necessary. The present proposal is to add to the list of books which are eligible for the payment of a bounty certain Commonwealth and State government publications which were excluded previously. Honourable members will recall that the purpose of the bounty is to encourage the publishing in Australia of books which are being published in countries such as Hong Kong, Singapore and, I think, Japan because it is cheaper to do so. The Australian publishing industry was in jeopardy because it was much cheaper to produce books in those countries. 
A rather curious anomaly exists whereby a duty is not imposed upon books as such because that would be regarded - and rightly so - as being a penalty upon knowledge, but we do impose a duty on paper and the other raw materials which are used in the printing of books. A book published in Australia is therefore at a disadvantage compared with a book produced somewhere else by reason of the fact that the cost of many components of the Australian product is inflated because of the duties which are imposed. These duties are escaped by publishers of books in other countries. It was felt that the disadvantage could be overcome by applying a bounty. In other words, a payment is made to the publisher in certain circumstances to enable him to publish books in Australia without being placed at the disadvantage of having to compete with a foreign product. I asked the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  some questions about the book industry. Unfortunately he is not with us today. He replied on 12th May stating: 
Before moving adjournment of the debate on the second reading of the Book Bounty Bill 1970- 
This bill was introduced in this House in May - - you asked me for some details of the nature of and value per annum of the books that arc printed for the States or the Commonwealth. 
The nature of the books involved are publications of a literature or educational character which qualify for book bounty and some details of books on which bounty has been refused because of Section 8 (2)- 
That refers to the Act as it stands - of the Book Bounty Act include textbooks and technical reports for the Papua and New Guinea Administration; text books for the Department of Education, Victoria; literary books for the Australian War Memorial Trustees; technical books for the State Electricity Board, Queensland; technical books for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
In addition it is known that there are a number of other books for which no formal application for bounty has been made and in several of the abovementioned instances the publisher has indicated that because bounty was not payable, printing would possibly be done by lower cost overseas printers. 
No precise estimate is available for the value involved per annum but the industry indicates that this type of work represented about 10% of their output and on this basis the amount of bounty involved could be about $150,000 for 1969-70. 
I noted on the Estimates presented to the House on Tuesday that a sum of $1,600,000 is included this year as the likely outlay for the Book Bounty Act. This is a comparatively small sum in toto for the encouragement of what is a significant industry. 
During the last debate on this measure I think honourable members on both sides of the House quoted with approval from the booklet entitled 'Books are Different - A case prepared by the Printing and Allied Trades Employers Federation of Australia on behalf of the Federal Book Manufacturers' Group'. The foreword to this book states: 
This industry arose during the Second World War to meet the gap created by reduction of overseas supplies and Australia's internal defence and civilian requirements and in later years developed to the point where it has manufactured about 25% of the books sold in Australia- &lt; 
I wish we could get a similar kind of content arrangement for Australian television. I hope some day that that very serious matter also will be considered by this Government. The foreword continues:  serving Australian based publishers with the production of books primarily written and published here for the local market. 
This is apt in regard to Australian television - 
Imported books, representing about 75% of the Australian market, are usually written and published overseas for world consumption. . . . 
Then the author goes on to list the great inroads that have occurred in Australian publishing because it was easier to send the matrices, or whatever they are, to Hong Kong or Singapore to have the books printed and then sell them much cheaper than would have been the case had they been produced in Australia. Figures are cited to show how book imports from Asia increased dramatically in the last 3 years. The value of books printed in Japan rose from $442,000 to $1,023,000. In regard to Hong Kong the value rose from $83,000 - almost a negligible amount - to $983,000 - almost $lm. This was to the detriment of the Australian publishing industry. 
I noticed that a few days ago the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  addressed a function called 'Pakprint '70'. The title of his address was Horizons for the 70s'. He described the very great importance to Australia of the printing industry and indicated the quite significant changes that had taken place in technology. To indicate the technical changes that are taking place in this field I shall quote from the 'Newsletter', volume 5 No. 2 for 1970 of International Business Machines. I think that many honourable members regularly get copies of the 'Newsletter' which indicate some of the processes in the computer and other allied fields. The article from which I shall quote is headed Australia's First Computer-produced Book Now on Sale' and states: 
Australia's first computer-produced and typeset book, the 2,184-page Kompass Register of Industry, is now being distributed. 
It lists the source of supply for 296,000 specific products available in Australia and gives details of 8,300 Australian companies. 
Data for the register was punched into cards from information supplied by the listed companies, stored on magnetic tape, and sorted into various categories by an IBM System/360 according to an international formula for Kompass registers. 
The Melbourne Data Centre undertook the job of writing the required programmes and of processing data entry and compilation. 
The first edition of Australian Kompass, which will be published annually, was only 15 months in preparation. lt is one of 14 international editions of the Swiss-based Kompass. The Australian publishers, Peter Isaacson Pty Limited, Melbourne hold the franchise for Australia and New Zealand from UK Kompass, and IPC subsidiary. They plan to produce the first New Zealand edition in 1972. 
Data preparation for the Australian edition created one of the largest data files yet handled by the Melbourne data centre. 
A Melbourne photosetting firm, ran the processed magnetic tape riles on four more computers to produce the final mag-tape for typesetting. 
The publishers laid down the several thousand feet of photographic output from the photosetter in page format and printed 7,000 copies of the 2,184-page book on their own web offset press. 
I hope that honourable members realise the immensity of the operation: 7,000 copies of a volume with 2,184 pages is an aggregate compilation of the magnitude of IS million pages. The article continues: 
All editions of Kompass include three main data groups. 
There are alphabetic indices in five languages to 31,000 different classes of products. For the Australian edition the publishers added 33C products unique to Australia or newly-marketed, ranging from abalone to pantyhose. 
That is certainly a wide variety. 1 have quoted this merely to indicate the great changes that are taking place in some industries. A sum as small as 51 .6m, wisely spent, may preserve this industry against the day when it is able to sustain itself by more and more operations of this kind. I am told that by reason of the quality of Australian labour in making magnetic tape for computers in Australia we have quite a distinct competitive advantage even against the United States of America. We are capable of working up an important export industry on the basis of Australian skills employed in making tapes to be fitted into computers in other parts of the world because Australian labour in relation to this skill is still cheaper than, say, in the United States or somewhere else, lt seems to me that this bounty, although it is applied directly to particular sorts of publications, is helping to preserve an industry that is likely to be on the verge of great technical change. Therefore, as we did on the previous occasion, we support this measure which has a relatively minor financial impact on the total Australian economy but which is significant in preserving an industry that is vital to Australia's culture in this era of technological change. 

 Mr WHITTORN (Balaclava) (3.10]- As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said, this legislationthe Book Bounty Bill 1970- has had a very tortuous path. I know that he was prepared to speak on it in May of this year, as I was. Now, because we are working on Fridays, we have an opportunity to say a few words about this well deserved legislation. Its main purpose is to assist private enterprise printers in binding books competitively. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said, in September last year a 25% bounty was placed on books used by private enterprise but excluding books that would be sold to the Commonwealth and State governments and to instrumentalities of the Commonwealth and State governments. The Commonwealth Government was waiting for a Tariff Board inquiry regarding books that were produced for the Commonwealth and State governments. Most of us realise that State governments in particular and the Commonwealth Government to a lesser extent have imported too many books from overseas because they are cheaper to produce there. 
On 7 th May 1969 the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  indicated in a statement to the Parliament that this section of the printing industry - that is, the bookbinding section - was reaching a parlous situation and therefore the Government had a duty to do something about it. There was a significant loss of employment in the bookbinding section of the printing industry, and there were very good reasons for that I hope that before I sit down I will be able to give some of the reasons which are not within the power of the Australian Government 
So, in September -of last year the Government took the unprecedented step of bypassing the Special Advisory Authority - it did not refer the matter to the Special Advisory Authority, which is the normal procedure for this Government to take - and, after extensive investigation into the industry situation and careful consideration of other methods of assistance, it took this decision to introduce an interim bounty. Reference to that decision may be found at page 1547 of Hansard of 18th September last year. However, as I said earlier, certain books were excluded, namely, those that were supplied to the Commonwealth and State governments. 
Nine months later - that takes us to June this year - the indications are that the legislation introduced in September has been partially effective. In fact, it has resulted in some books being retained in Australia for production. It has caused some books, which were sent to Hong Kong for production before the bounty was introduced, to be recalled to Australia for local manufacture. It has not stopped much book work, particularly that in the multi-colour field, being placed overseas. It is this section of the industry that is still being hit, even with the assistance of a 25% bounty. It has not stopped books being imported at an increasing rate, particularly from Hong Kong - one of the main problem areas for local manufacturers. 
Despite the Book Bounty Act 1969 the latest figures indicate that books worth $2.8m will have been imported from Hong Kong in 1969-70, an increase of 54% in 12 months. The information I have before me was collated on 30th April 1970. The estimated total value of books imported into Australia in the same period is $43.6m, an increase of 13.5%. I can assure the House that printers in Australia would like to get even a small proportion of that production. A number of very good printing and book binding factories could be set up and a number of skilled artisans could be employed in this printing work if the books that are now imported were produced in Australia. 
In an effort to protect local book manufacturers who faced unfair competition from overseas - particularly from low cost Asian countries - the Government took the unprecedented step of legislating for a book bounty. One of the prime reasons for my speaking today on the bounty on books produced for private enterprise or for Commonwealth and State governments is that Australian artisans are still well behind overseas countries in the production of books printed in multi-colour. Australian printers get the black and white printing work but the work that is interesting to highly trained men - that is, the production of multi-colour books - will still go overseas simply because wages in Australia are so high for these artisans compared with wages paid for similar work overseas. 
Many honourable members will appreciate that over the years I have criticised the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission because of the tremendous wage rises it has given to the work force in Australia. In recent weeks I have been overseas. On my trip I found that my views are supported by the fact that artisans in the countries concerned receive between oneeighth and one-half of the wage paid to Australian workers in the same occupation. Overseas they are unionists, just as Australian printers belong to the trade union movement. It is obvious that the people who invest their money in the production of books will continue to go to the low cost countries with their work while the wage differential applies - and it seems that it will apply for a long time. In other words, so far as multi-colour work is concerned it seems that the book manufacturing industry in Australia must ultimately wither away. 
I believe that the Government cannot continue to increase bounties to compensate for the difference in wages and other costs as between South East Asian countries and Australia, which I will refer to later. There is a continuing demand for the production of black and white books in Australia and this demand should be maintained, but the colour work will continue to go overseas because of tremendous differentials in production costs and the fact that printing artisans overseas work a good many more hours in a week than their counterparts in Australia. One reason why the Government introduced the bounty is what is called the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation Florence Agreement. This Agreement necessitates that books shall enter countries without being subjected to tariff. As Australia adheres closely to the United Nations it has maintained the need to import books without tariff. I believe that the Australian printing industry could have produced a good proportion of the books to the value of $43 .6m imported into Australia in 1969-70. In that year there was a 13.5% increase in the value of books imported into Australia. This should provide good work for the Australian printing industry. 
It is fallacious for us to believe that we are doing the right thing by imposing duties on raw materials, such as paper, to protect our local industries and then allowing books into Australia duty free. Admittedly we now have a bounty for all types of books but this bounty has not prevented the flow of work to Hong Kong and Korea. While I was in South East Asia I learned that printing industries were being set up not only in Djakarta but also in Singapore to a greater extent and in Kuala Lumpur. This set of conditions will apply not only to the printing industry but to other industries as well. General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd and the Ford company have already set up assembly and partial manufacturing plants in the 3 overseas centres I mentioned. Companies dealing in plastics, not only from Australia but from Japan and the United States of America, also are setting up plants in those areas. This problem which is connected with the bookbinding and the printing industry will become general as the years go by. The artisans in the overseas countries I mentioned are equally competent to carry out the work which is done in Australia. The facilities in overseas countries are as good as those in Australia. The weekly hours worked by overseas artisans is 57 compared to 40 in Australia. 
I would have been very interested to learn from the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  what he or his Government proposes to do about inflation. It seems to me that this Budget contains no measures which will abate the tides of intiation. If anything, it serves to aggravate the situation. Before I travel these interesting paths of economic analysis I wish to say two things about what might be called the visible aspects of the Budget as against the invisible aspects of the Budget that I am a bit more concerned about. 
There is anger in the community with the Budget because of the miserly approach that it makes to the problem of age pensions. I make that point first. If we read the documents associated with the Budget we see that this year the Australian gross national product stands at a little more than $30,000m. It increased during the year by $3,000m. I will say something a little later about the nature of that increase. I am not suggesting that $1 per week is the minimum by which the age pension ought to have been increased, but to have increased it by $1 per week instead of 50c per week would have added a sum of $30m to the total expenditure of the Commonwealth. That is one-thousandth of the gross national product or 1 % of the increment that took place during the financial year. Occasionally, apart from arguments of principle, there are things of which one ought to be ashamed socially. If the proposed increase in pensions shows the social perspectives of this Government, I think it ought to look a second time at those perspectives. 
The second matter about which there is perhaps not anger but disappointment in the community is this: The Government has fumbled this opportunity to make really effective taxation reform. I disagree fundamentally with my friend the honourable member for Lilley. I could not have thought of a worse way of adjusting income tax. Plenty of groans and moans have been heard about it. In a community that has been groaning for years now about the total burden of taxation, to alter the form of taxation that ought to be the crown of the system by giving flat rate concessions all around up to $10,000 per annum seems to me to fly in the face of all the canons of progressive reduction. The amount that is involved in this reduction in taxation is approximately $250m. 
If the honourable member opposite had asked me how I would reform the taxation scale, I would have said that I would reform it from the bottom up, not from the top down. I would have made adjustments in the family allowance for married taxpayers. The scale of progression has not even been altered. The income tax structure should have been totally reconstructed. This reconstruction should have included concessions. That is all that I wish to say on this subject at this stage. I will have ample opportunity to speak in more detail about this matter when the relevant taxation legislation comes before the House. 
I wish to look at one or two aspects of the total situation and refer to some of the things that are invisible rather than visible. After all, taxation ought to be a medium of redistribution. Merely to compare one country with another without taking into account what it is proposed to do with what has been collected through taxation does not give a very sound analysis of the situation. I am rather intrigued at the credit which the honourable member for Lilley seems to have given already to Professor Galbraith. I am guided in my understanding of this matter by that reputable journal the 'Australian Financial Review' which, in an article of 18th August 1970, under the heading 'Canada Scene' and the subheading: A chance to test Galbraith's ideas', states: 
Canada may be the first country in the world to drop the economic theories of John Maynard Keynes in favour of the ideas of Professor John Kenneth Galbraith. . . . 
As I understand it, Canada has not started to put bis ideas into action. I do not know whether the honourable member for Lilley is on the mailing list, as I am, for the Canadian Weekly Bulletin'. In the most recent issue dated 22nd July 1970, that publication states: 
The Prices and Incomes Commission is now mating regular checks on the prices of the largest retail stores in Canada.  if initial markups are found to exceed the markup in 1969. the company involved is asked to reduce its markup or gross profit after consideration of justifiable increases in expenses since 1969. 
The article further states: 
The retail monitoring system has already resulted in the halting of some price increases and, more important, it has resulted in manufacturers, processors, supermarket, department, discount and variety stores being much more aware that any price increase which is to be passed along to consumers must be clearly within the guide lines pertaining to their particular segment of industry. 
That item goes on to state that there was actually a fall in the consumer price index for May. This is something we would like to see noted in Australia. So much for the situation in Canada. Australia surely is the place which we ought to be talking about and the responsibility for dealing with the problems of inflation lies with the Government which is occupying the Treasury bench again. I want to say something later about the difficulty of judging a Budget at the time when it is brought down. In his opening remarks of the Budget Speech the Treasurer said: 
. the Government seeks ... to produce a responsible Budget, a balanced Budget, a Budget shaped to the requirements of an economy that is dynamic and fast-growing- 
If this economy is so dynamic and fastgrowing surely the Government could have afforded another $3 Om for the pensioners, but an economy still threatened by disruptive inflation. 
In summing up the Budget the Treasurer had this to say: 
In any case, strong and persuasive though its effects can be, the Commonwealth Budget does not determine the whole course of our economic affairs. 
I want to say something about some of the things that are not being looked at. This word 'inflation' seems to be becoming the most used word to describe the situation as we find it. As 1 said earlier, it is difficult to evaluate the Budget now because I think that more things are asked of budgets than budgets are capable of sustaining. Despite all the so called new analyses that are available this Budget - more so than budgets for many years - is little more than a catalogue, on the one side, of projected receipts and, on the other side, of expenditure the commitments for which were engaged in quite a while ago. In some ways the only time to determine whether a budget overall is good or bad is when you come to frame the next one. 
I want to say a little about the last Budget. At least we are able to evaluate what was described 12 months ago as a non-inflationary Budget. During the last year prices rose faster than they did in the previous year - 3.7% compared with 2.5% in the previous year and they were rising in the last quarter at a rate in excess of 5%. The present Treasurer did not frame the last Budget. However, in July this year he referred in a Press release to the Commonwealth budget outcome for 1969-70. He is courteous enough to send me copies of all the statements he makes. That statement reads: 
The Treasurer,  Mr Bury,  announced today that the Commonwealth had completed the financial year 1969-70 with a deficit of $7m, compared with the Budget estimate of $30m. 
One might think that that is pretty close to what the previous Treasurer said but I emphasise what was not said in that evaluation, that is, that there had been a credit squeeze imposed in the latter half or so of that financial year. Surely that credit squeeze must have had some impact upon the result of that Budget. 
There is another matter to which I want to draw attention although I have not sufficient time this evening to go into it in detail. However, T will have an opportunity to deal with this aspect more fully when a loan Bill is before the House. In the 1969-70 report and financial statement of the Reserve Bank of Australia there is a graph detailing the net holdings of Government securities redeemable in Australia. The holder who got the biggest increment of holdings during that year - the Reserve Bank - shows that in many respects despite the credit squeeze the Government was forced to pursue what in essence in the banking sense was an inflationary policy. 
This is particularly apparent from the increased holdings by the Reserve Bank of 2 items - 'Treasury notes' and 'Other'. The trading banks held actually less Government securities than previously, as did the savings banks. Those honourable members who are students of monetary theory would appreciate the implication that this would have a tendency to be inflationary. At the present time there are divided opinions as to the state of the economy. I am quite sure that the Treasurer and I would be the first to agree that we do not get unanimity in these things. T would like to pose in opposition to some of the things that have been said here tonight the views expressed in the 'Australian Economic Review' for the second quarter of 1970 and published just prior to the Budget. This is a review by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, University of Melbourne. About public spending the authors had this to say: 
Towards the end of the year this effect was reinforced by some monetary measure.'; that we did not expect, nor did we think entirely warranted.  1 have with me quite a number of clippings which could be categorised as stating that business is bad, indicating somewhat the same view. One article headed 'Financial Crisis Looms For Rural Industry' was written by  Mr Tom  Connors of the 'Australian Financial Review', lt was reprinted in the 'Ricemill News'. Another was contained in the July issue of 'Canberra Comments' issued by another commercial undertaking. It reads: 
Results, particularly from some industries, were not up to expectations and stocks rose more quickly than was expected. 
The bulletin of 20th July of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia states: 
Already there are strong indications that in some areas business confidence is on the retreat and the danger of the economy being allowed to run down too far for too long must he guarded against. 
The Australia and New Zealand Bank in its monthly survey of business indicators for June 1970 had this  to  say: 
At the same lime the concern is that the restrictive measures do not over kill. Selective relief for the housing industry may be required in the interim. 
I want to talk about the central problem of inflation - for want of a better descrip tion. In a way inflation is the great argument that goes on in the community. Wages versus prices is one aspect; consumption versus investment is another aspect; and efficient overall allocation of resources and labour is another aspect. It is a matter that can be affected both inside and outside the Budget - and in my view mainly outside it. 1 was interested to read a rather frank description - franker than is sometimes found in Treasury publications - in the 'Australian Economy 1970'. Under the heading 'Costs and Prices' the article states: 
Wages are  the  largest element in costs, but by no means the only one. Profit margins, interest rales, taxes and charges all have a direct part in determining cost levels within the economy and, proportionately, can do as much to raise costs as wage movements. At limes, also, external factors, such as export and import prices and exchange rate movements, can have considerable influence, in one direction or (he other, on the domestic price structure. 
What will be said here about the effect which rising wages have had on prices  in  recent years is not at all intended to imply that they have been solely responsible for the price increases which have occurred, lt is not so. A good many other factors have contributed - larger profit margins probably more than most. Also any tendency for demand lo run to excess quickly reflects itself in the elements making up costs, but the directly consequential rises in wages are the symptoms rather than the causes of the prevailing inflation. 
I ask: What has been done within the Budget or outside of it to deal with what are popularly described as the causes rather than the symptoms of inflation? The honourable member for Lilley always takes the opportunity to ask the Opposition what it would do. The Opposition does not have to do anything at the moment The Government is in office to do these things and the Opposition is here to say whether it thinks the Government is not doing what is proper. I would say that nothing is being done in this Budget insofar as this major problem of inflation is concerned. Why is inflation a major problem? Anybody who studies this document entitled 'The Australian Economy 1970' will find out. 
I wish to comment on the effect of last year's Budget. One of the documents I have in front of me, National Income and Expenditure 1969-70, shows that in 1968- 69 the increase in the gross national product, using 1966-67 prices as a common evaluator, was 8.6%. However, in 1969- 70 the increase declined to 5.5%. There were certain reasons why 1968-69 was as good as it was. It reflected a glut in wheat production in particular. Nevertheless, the performance last year was not as good as it was in the previous year. If we had had the same rate of increase expressed in real terms the gross national product would have been some $900m greater than it was. It is certainly a rather peculiar attitude to adopt to be satisfied by a poor performance like that. I have already quoted from a Treasury bulletin, which is a Government publication. I wish to quote a rather curious passage from another Government publication with respect to the question of inflation. I refer to the 1969-70 report and the financial statements of the Reserve Bank of Australia, which were tabled in this House last Thursday evening, and in particular to page 28 of the report. The opinion expressed is purported to be the opinion of the Bank, but when it is all said and done the Bank is only an arm of the Government. The report states: 
When the inducement to invest is rising (due, for example, to rising prices or mineral discoveries), failure to allow interest rates to rise lowers the return on non-equity financial assets relative to physical assets and equities. 
I should point out that I have had some trouble understanding precisely what is meant by 'non-equity financial assets relative to physical assets and equities'. The article continues: 
In such a situation, investors can be expected to increase their holdings of physical assets and so, in time, increase expenditures. If attempts are made by the authorities to resist a rise in yields on financial assets, the Bank will be required to provide increasing amounts of finance to achieve this objective. The private sector's ability to spend is correspondingly increased and further demand pressures are likely to ensue. It is clear that, when interest rates rise- 
This seems to me to be a very bland statement -  some sectors may experience hardships associated with increasing costs of finance, a factor which needs to be watched closely. In general, however, difficulties associated with, say, increases in the general level of prices which typically accompany cheap money' policies are likely to be far greater than any hardships arising from an alternative policy of permitting the cost of finance to move to levels determined by market considerations. 
I would say that market considerations are being allowed to dominate the community, sometimes almost to the extermination of human aspirations and other such considerations. This is the great problem which besets the community. We have a society in which, for good or ill - the Government believes that it is fairly good - the majority of people who derive an income do so as wage earners. Over 80% of the community fall within that category. As the Treasury document to which I have referred points out and the White Paper on the Australian economy shows, wages, salaries and supplements are the biggest single item in the gross national product. They are also the biggest single source of consumer demand. Of course, it is consumer demand which ultimately sets the tempo of the economy. Minerals are wanted. They are taken out of the ground because they are required for manufacture into products which the community wants. It is not simply a question of what wages should be. 
When one analyses the position in regard to the gross national product one finds that overall standards in Australia are increasing but not everybody is sharing in the increase equitably. Statement No. 7 in the Budget Papers, which is entitled 'Commonwealth Budget Transactions Since 1960-61', indicates that a higher percentage of the gross national expenditure was going to this item of cash benefits to persons - which means social service payments - in 1960-61 than in 1969-70. I intend to place a question on the notice paper about this matter because it is my view that a higher proportion of the population was in receipt of age pensions and child endowment in 1969-70 than in 1960-61 and yet the share of total Government expenditure last year was less than it was 10 years ago. This is another illustration of the distortions which have occurred. The honourable member for Lilley was very clever about the effect of the Budget on the tax schedule. Inflation would not be a problem if everybody's income rose as fast as prices rose, but inflation matters as a social problem because some incomes rise faster than prices, some rise slower and some do not rise at all unless social action is taken at the Government level. This is the situation which has been reached in Australia. As one of my colleagues put it: How can one blame wage earners for seeking higher wages when prices increased 3.7% during the previous year and are rising at the rate of 5% this year? How can you blame them for doing this in a community that is still wage oriented as far as the majority of consuming units are concerned? 
In default of prices falling, how can you maintain your economic level and take your share of what is called productivity unless overall there is a continuing rise in wage levels? There may be arguments as to the share which each person shall get and there may be arguments as to whether you solve the problems by taking Budget action or banking action but for certain sections of the community these problems have not been solved and in some cases they have not even been examined. If in the jargon of the Reserve Bank interest rates must rise so that hundreds of millions of dollars may be invested in the mining industry, surely this is not sufficient reason for an increase in the interest rates paid by the fellow on the average wage seeking to buy a house. Surely you can insulate one type of individual from another in matters of this kind, even if you do it by means of a separate subsidy. Despite what the honourable member for Lilley said, noi one Western society has yet solved the problem of inflation - that is. to maintain full employment and to avoid a rise in prices. I repeat that I prefer inflation and full employment if the alternative is no inflation but unemployment. At present we have a situation of inflation and full employment. Our job is to redress the distortions that take place. 
One of the things that can be done in the field of public expenditure - it can be done only by the Commonwealth in a systematic sense - is to cut the cake as between public investment and private investment so as to regulate the distribution as between consumption and investment. A few weeks ago I travelled extensively throughout Western Australia. I observed the great iron ore undertakings being developed in that State. Already more than $500m has been spent on this development and there are plans to double that investment in the near future. I was told by a senior officer of a State department that there is not one full high school in Western Australia north of the 26th parallel. There are schools catering for pupils in first and second years. Having reached that stage the children who live in those expanding towns must go south to further their education. Yet almost next door in Darwin there are plans to build a college of advanced education at a cost of millions of dollars. This indicates to me a faulty allocation of total resources. Surely it is up to governments - principally the Commonwealth, but, through the Commonwealth, State governments and local authorities - to redress this imbalance and to see that private development is at least matched by adequate social development. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of. the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Melbourne Ports respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence iti films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution.' page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on '14th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I address a question to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that the use of Australian gramophone recordings by commercial broadcasting stations is at present inhibited by a copyright dispute? Why are difficulties being experienced by the commercial stations and not by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Why does the dispute extend to recordings from the United Kingdom and not to those from the United States of America? 
I will oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  or I shall seek a ruling as to whether the amendment is out of order in terms of the Bill. This Bill relates to a quorum of members of the House of Representatives. As I understand the position the Bill had to be passed because previously the quorum was fixed under the provisions of the Constitution with a proviso that it would remain at that figure until such time as Parliament decided otherwise. This Parliament is now deciding whether the quorum shall be onefifth of the members instead of one-third. But the number of members that will constitute a valid division is an entirely different question. As I understand it these matters should be laid down in the Standing Orders of this Parliament. We already have one provision which states that the Standing Orders cannot be suspended unless there is what is known as a statutory majority. A statutory majority is  1  more than half of the total members. That is the only provision which sets a minimum number of members for a division. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills should, in my view, be referred back to the Standing Orders Committee for further investigation. 
I want to ask you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  to rule whether this amendment is consonant with the Bill before us which is a Bill relating, as the title says, to a quorum of the members of the House of Representatives. How can we tag on to a Bill dealing with a quorum of this House a provision as to the valid numbers in any division? To my mind this amendment is not relevant to the Bill. If any honourable member wishes to have this sort of proviso the way to do it is to have the Standing Orders amended. But of course that is not the matter now before the Committee. The subject which is before this Committee is a Bill dealing with a quorum of the House of Representatives. I ask for a ruling on this. If the ruling is against my view I propose to vote against the amendment, in any case. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - I rule that the amendment is relevant to the Bill. I rule that the amendment simply fixes another quorum number required for a division. Therefore I rule that the amendment is in order. 
I want to say a few words about the estimates for the Parliament. The sum allocated, about $4m, is comparatively small and I say that the Australian public gets good value for this money. The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  made a point about the small number of members in attendance in the House at certain times.- I would point out to him that one of the facilities here enables us to listen to the proceedings on radio if we do not want to see the show on television, as it were. The proceedings are piped to members' rooms and I think many honourable members listen to them there. The honourable member for Mallee also referred to some of the great orators and figures of the past in the 70 years history of the Commonwealth Parliament. If Parliament is to be preserved as an institution  -  I still believe it to be the most satisfactory form of government - then it needs to modify some of its procedures. In the early weeks of this session we devoted a great deal of time to recasting the Standing Orders. Suggestions were made about committees and so on. Like my colleague the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  I am not a great one for the proliferation of committees because we could get to a stage where we spend more time attending committee meetings than Parliament. It is inevitable that some of these meetings must be held while Parliament is in session. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! There is too much conversation in the chamber. The honourable member for Sturt will remain silent. 
I did not carry on a conversation while the honourable member for Mallee was talking, and I wish he would do me the same courtesy. We cannot hear ourselves think sometimes in this place for the non-speeches that are going on at the same time. I was referring to the complexity of issues that face members. I have had experience today of 2 of them that I think typify the difficulty we have in understanding or getting to the roots of many of the problems that face us. We had a discussion in our Party Executive - I hope I am not breaching any confidences about what took place there - about the provision or otherwise of a nuclear power system in Australia. We have been told that if the proposal to build a nuclear power station is implemented it will cost something like $5,000m. I think we were told by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  that the submissions associated with this power station weighed some tons. 
How we turn what is written on 11 tons of paper into a sensible proposition that is understandable by us who have to legislate is a problem that typifies some of the difficulties we face. Another matter came up at the meeting this afternoon. I do not often attend meetings while the House is sitting. I think that my friend the honourable member for Mallee will agree that, like him, I am one of the best attenders in this House because I think this is where most of us should be most of the time. Nevertheless I attended a meeting this afternoon. It was associated with the increase in postal charges. I do not want to go into the details, but at least it is fairly minor or peripheral compared with the total problems we face. Nevertheless, to listen to the representations that are made - and they ought to be able to be made - requires us to go away and do a great deal of homework on some matter which in terms of totality has nothing like the same significance as that $5,000m. but which nevertheless is an important problem. I think additional facilities should be provided for the use of members. 
Also in these estimates is the proposed vote for the Parliamentary Library. I pay a tribute to the Library and its services. Nevertheless those services are nowhere near extensive enough, and sometimes nowhere near close enough to the sorts of problems that we have to face. I believe that Parliament ought to be the central institution in a democratic system. I do not know whether other honourable members received a questionnaire that I received the other day from a student. I will not quote his name lest he be embarrassed. It is a questionnaire on what Australian politicians - I must confess that I do not like the word 'politician'; it seems to have unpleasant overtones - consider as the most important national buildings needed in a hypothetical new capital city. I am afraid that I am not disposed to give very much time to considering what I would put in a new hypothetical capital city. But I certainly think that in the capital city we have - and there is no prospect of moving it to anywhere else if anybody wanted to  -  Parliament House ought to be central. I do not mean central in the sense that one can see it from a great distance, but it ought to be the most important and best equipped building thai it is possible to have. 
How long it will be before the new Parliament House is built I do not know, but certainly the facilities we have here at the moment are grossly inadequate. One only has to go to an average member's room, if he has one, and look at the pressure of paper against the space that is there to see that certain inadequacies face us. I do not quite know how in 1970 the average member is able to cope with the sort of paper work and reading material that comes before him, let alone do his constituency duties as well. Each morning when we come here there seem to be a bundle of documents, letters and annual reports that have just been tabled. 1 wish sometimes that there was a corner in this building where on 1st July the first annual report that was tabled could be put and where these documents could be systematically built up until 30th June the next year just to show the amount of stuff that is tabled for the consideration of honourable members to show how unthinkable and impossible it would be for us to examine the lot. The answer may be to have some sort of precis of each annual report. 1 think some of the departments provide such precis, but there are times when we have to read annual reports in great detail. J suppose each of us selects the ones we regard as the more important and the more significant for our own interest. For one who is a specialist in a particular field - and I think that increasingly members of Parliament have to specialise in certain fields - an annual report may be easily understood, but it may be difficult for those who are not in that speciality to understand what the report is all about. I suppose the fault lies partly with those who are the expositors. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  the other evening in the course of another debate made some reference, I thought rather obliquely, to some of the speeches that were made here during the Budget debate. At least to some people the Budget debate is a very important occasion and a great deal of time has to go into the preparation of their speeches on the Budget if they are to say what they want to say. Like the honourable member for Mallee 1 do not write speeches. I do not like written speeches. I give a great deal of time to preparing my material and trying to understand what the subject is about, but like the honourable member for Mallee I like to be able to answer something that has gone before or anticipate something that may come after rather than have something cut and dried in advance. 
The record of attendance in the Press Gallery by members of the Press is worse than the record of attendance by members in the chamber. Apparently only one member of the Press is needed in the gallery at one time. He seems to cover the diversity of the Australian Press. Maybe the other pressmen listen on the radio as I do. But why should copies of members speeches have to be handed out to the Press hours in advance? Are the pressmen not here to report? They are given space and facilities in the House, and to my mind we should not have to have a speech carefully circulated in advance so as to have it reported in the Press. If after listening to a speech the Press does not think anything is worthy of reporting, I suppose that is the risk we have to take. 
My experience over a long time - I am afraid I have become one of the veterans in this place, having been here for close to 20 years - is that the majority of members who come here are decent hardworking people, with certainly a variety of talents. Sometimes within the one person we find a great diversity of talents. But they come here and endeavour to contribute, to the best of their ability. We on this side of the House talk among ourselves and I presume that honourable members opposite do likewise. But increasingly the issues that come before us seem to be becoming more complex. 1 am one who believes that in a parliamentary system a government must govern. Whoever happens to be the Excutive has to have the initiative. That initiative should not be exercised tyrannically. It should not be exercised to the detriment of the rights of Opposition members or back benchers. Part of the function of the Government is to communicate the kind of information it has and the kind of background material that is necessary to make what goes on here understandable. 
I think that a tendency exists in Australia to classify too much material as top secret when it would not matter if everybody knew all about that material. In fact, it would be much better in many instances if more people did know all about it. At least, an improvement has occurred. I have noticed an improvement over recent years concerning information on defence and its allied branches. At one time it seemed to be thought very dangerous if we in Australia knew how many aeroplanes, naval ships, battalions and platoons or what equipment we had. This information is given now in the reports which are presented during the period when the Estimates are being considered. This is a great improvement. No longer does defence rely on having some sort of secret weapon. The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  though, seems to have found a few projects during the last week; and, I think he would have done better if he had announced them here rather than outside this place. I am glad to know that some of the building is to be done in Australian shipyards. This is a good thing. 
This Parliament is a better place for having more information, though sometimes we may have such a plethora that it is hard to see the wood for the trees. One of the great virtues of a committee system - we should not have too many committees - is that the expert can be brought along and questioned, his assumptions examined and the crudities of those who do not quite know what he is doing subjected to criticism. I think the Parliament is a better place for committees. I do hope that we will continue to give serious consideration to this proposal. After all, this is the right of Parliament. It is not the Government which should say: 'You cannot do this because we will not give you the money'. I would like to see the Parliament give something similar to what the Treasurer has - that is, a Treasurer's Advance. There should be a parliamentary advance. A sum should be available for Parliament to use if the Parliament believes a new committee system or a new series of projects is desirable. Parliament should be able to initiate these things. Their introduction should not wait upon the charity of a Government that often does not have much as far as the working of this place is concerned. Parliament has certain rights. Those rights ought to be preserved. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Is it o fact that collections of excise during 1969-70 were $20m leis than the Budget estimates because clearances of beer, tobacco and motor spirit increased at a rate less than had been expected. 
Can he advance any reasons for the shortfall in each of these categories. 
Would this shortfall have been even greater but for the introduction of what is described at documentary control'. 
What is the difference between documentary control and methods formerly employed. 
Does documentary control have only limited use as a method of protecting revenues. 
What other methods of control are in force. 
I would like to say a few things about the estimates for the Department of External Affairs mainly to draw attention to something that must have been disappointing to the rest of the world. I refer to what was called the decade of development. It was hoped that in the period from 1960 to 1970 the western world, or the more fortunate areas, would face up to the responsibilities of providing external aid and economic development assistance up to 1 per cent of their gross national product. If Australia's external aid had reached that figure it would have meant that the assistance that Australia gives abroad would now be of the magnitude of $300m. This contrasts quite substantially with what has been achieved and also with what it is hoped to achieve in the coming year. 
Just before Christmas a document known as the Pearson Report reached this country. The Pearson Report received its name from  Mr Lester  Pearson, a former Prime Minister of Canada, who was the  Chairman  of the committee that examined what might be achieved in the next 10 years if we cut our losses, as it were, in respect of what happened in the 1960s. Rather reluctantly t'.ie committee came to the conclusion that we could not start on the optimistic assumption of spending 1 per cent of gross national product on external aid. I think that figure was a percentage of gross national product at factor cost, which is a somewhat lesser figure than the 1 per cent of gross national product. The committee suggested that we should start off with a figure of about 0.7 per cent of the gross national product, which in Australia's case would mean something like $230m to $240m. 
As one other honourable member pointed out earlier this evening, the estimated expenditure on assistance to other parts of the world, including Papua and New Guinea, in this Budget is nowhere near that figure. The sums of money that are spent on defence, apparently without much question, are in considerable contrast. It seems that nations are reluctant to increase their economic aid abroad as against what they spend on defence. It seems to be generally acknowledged that the most significant problem that faces the world in the years ahead is to raise the living standards of more than half the world, excluding mainland China. Mainland China has about a quarter of the world's population, but because of the folly of international arrangements it has been excluded from the considerations of United Nations organisations. Something like 1,000 million or more people, something like a third of the rest of the world's population or fairly close to a half of it, still live in unsatisfactory conditions because of inadequate economic development. India alone has a population of about 500 million and Pakistan has a population of over 100 million, both at a per capita standard that is very low. 
We must look at the levels at which aid is given and the mechanisms with which it is distributed. I think a lot of the Pearson Committee's criticism was about the existing arrangements for the distribution of aid. Unfortunately even with the Colombo Plan, the United Nations, the Food and Agricultural Organisation and various other organisations it is still incredibly difficult to bring a real need that exists to the ken of some other country that may be able to do something about it. It  is  still unfortunately true that most of what any country does has to be done from its own resources. A country literally has to raise itself up by its own bootstraps. Nevertheless the assistance that can come from other counties, particularly capital assistance in the form of equipment and machinery, technical assistance and manpower is substantial and valuable provided we can create the necessary networks. 
There Ls still always a reluctance on the part of those who need assistance to accept it if it is given in a form in which it appears to be charity. There are still some curious people who think that we can solve the problems of the farmers of Australia by giving away to people who have no incomes the wheat, wool and other commodities we cannot sell at home. 
Any of these products. We are not doing so Well with wool as we would like, either, probably because our would-be customers do not have enough money to pay prices which we think should be a little bit higher than they are at the moment. 1 was referring at least to wheat and surpluses of other foodstuffs. Butter is perhaps a better example. There is no easy road. If we have too much of some commodity that it does not necessarily follow that somebody else wants it. The solution is not so easy. Even with a commodity like wheat it is doubtful whether some of the other parts of the world if they had a choice of what they would eat would choose wheat rather than some other commodity. Nevertheless, in order to improve their overall standards some better system for the distribution of aid, technical assistance and so on is necessary. I think this is the sort of thing to which the Pearson Committee pointed. I asked the Minister for External Affairs who is away at the moment - we accept his absence in the circumstances - for a copy of the Pearson report and he gave rae 1 but I think he ought to have given a copy to every honourable member of this House. I would have liked to have seen an opportunity to debate some of the propositions that are contained in that volume. After all, Australia paid some money towards the preparation of that report but we do not seem to have had any very systematic examination of it in this country. 
We always get bogged down, of course, in this argument that Australia does better than most countries when we take Papua and New Guinea into account. 1 am not suggesting that we ought not to take Papua and New Guinea into account, but I think sometimes we ought to take into account that a large part of the expenditure in Papua and New Guinea is simply to maintain the European portion of the population at the existing levels that they have come to accept. Whether this should be regarded as aid for the development of Papua and New Guinea is very doubtful. I would like to see those figures separated sometimes. The World Bank report on New Guinea a year or two ago at least indicated that in New Guinea there was a dual economy. I think we are also moving towards what sometimes happens in these primitive economies and that is what is called a treble economy. We get the basic subsistence area, the cash crop type of economy and then the expatriate economy. The expatriate economy is the one which often is the most significant, and if I can recall it from memory 1 think the New Guinea situation was that some people had a standard of living some 10 to 20 times higher than the rest. Of course the section that had the highest standards consists of the civil servants and the European section of the economy. 
How much of what appears in our accounts as aid to Papua and New Guinea is really aid in the sense in which it is understood? We talk about 1 per cent of our gross national product going to these countries but this is, I would suggest, very dubious. We are inclined to be rather smug about this and to point to the fact that our percentage is higher than that of some other countries. That may be but our percentage is still nowhere near as high as it should be in the sense of the sort of obligations that we are supposed to accept under the decade of development thesis. It is now at a somewhat lower level on the Pearson assumption. I would hope that a lot more attention will be given to this sort of thing in the future than has been given in the past. 
We debate at great length and in great detail the expenditure of more than $l,100m on defence, and I think as well as asking ourselves what we defend ourselves with we should also keep asking the question: 'What do we have to defend ourselves against?' The great unstabilising force in the world is still the disparity between the standards of the more fortunate parts of the world and the standards that are not enjoyed by something like one half of the world's population. Surely this is what economic aid ought to be about and there should be just as much serious attention given to the mechanisms of aid as is given to what is called logistics and similar aspects of defence. I hope that in the future this Parliament will take a much more humanitarian attitude to these questions and perhaps make a much more systematic examination of these problems. I throw out for the consideration of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  that he should at least give to every member of this House a copy of the Pearson report. Even though it is nearly a year old now it is still of considerable -value and I hope that there will be some opportunity to examine in greater detail some of the recommendations that are contained in it. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make the point that I believe that this is the third occasion on which a motion of this type has been proposed during these sittings. On the first occasion, I was careful to ask the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  whether the motion was intended to be an isolated incident rather than a precedent. It would seem to me that if it is found necessary to do this some reference of this matter ought to be made again to the Standing Orders Committee with a view perhaps to revising the rule that governs the conduct of committees. Then it would be competent for the House as a whole to decide by debate whether that revised standing order was a desirable practice. 
I know the limits of the Act. All I suggest is that, if the Minister must come along every Friday and move this motion, deficiencies in the Act are pointed to. I carefully asked the Minister on the first occasion when such a motion was proposed whether it was for the day concerned only and I was told yes. I took no notice last week when a similar motion was moved. Now the Minister asks that this practice be followed every week until 16th October. I will not offer any objection. But I would submit that in relation to the proposed new sitting hours revision may be required also in respect of these permanent standing committees. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all the words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and that a Joint Select _ Committee be appointed to inquire into the  desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business of the Post Office'. 
There are 2 Bills before us. The first, in the words of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme),  seeks to amend the Post and Telegraph Rates Act in order to adjust certain postal and telegraph charges. The second Bill seeks to deal with proposed variations in telephone charges and other variations which require amendment of the postal and telegraph regulations. Firstly, I want to say something about the concept of the Post Office as a department or as a corporation. 1 know that this is a matter on which there are considerable differences of opinion. In recent times in Great Britain the Post Office has been reorganised. I wish to quote from a document entitled Reorganisation of the Post Office - Command Paper 3233'. It reads: 
Traditionally the Post Office has followed the organisational pattern of a central government department. This pattern is not appropriate for the successful management of a large service  industry  liles !hs Pest Office. 
That was the view expressed in the white paper prepared by Her Majesty's Government in 1967, but the change did not take place until September 1969. I have always thought that in the United Kingdom they order some of these matters better than we do. They have proper discussion and inquiry before a change is made. That is what the Opposition is suggesting should be done here. We do not indicate at this stage whether the existing organisation is better or whether a corporation would be better, but we do suggest that the issue should be made the subject of inquiry by a joint select committee which could take evidence from those in a position to know whether the Post Office would be better as a corporation or as a department. If the Post Office was a corporation there would be certain changes in the relationship of the Minister to what might be called the day to day activities of the department - that is a term used in Great Britain - as against what might be called the policy of the department. The day to day activities would be subject to management by the corporation and not subject to the scrutiny that might exist where the Post Office is run as a department. On the other hand, in regard to finance and matters of policy the Minister would still be answerable in Parliament. 
I do not want to traverse this matter in great detail because, unfortunately, the time of this debate has been limited. In order to give some of my colleagues an opportunity to speak 1 will not take the full 45 minutes I might otherwise have taken. Therefore I will not expand to any great extent on this other than to draw the attention of the House to the British white paper - I suggest to those who are interested that they might read it - and 'he sort of things it is thought the corporation would do better than the existing departmental organisation. I must confess to being a great admirer of the efficiency of the Post Office. Like other big concerns it makes mistakes but when one takes into account the vast amount of business that is transacted I think it is a more than reasonably efficient unit The last year for which full statistics are available is the year 1968-69. I suppose tomorrow the Postmaster-General will probably publish the accounts for 1969-70. 
I note that last year they were presented to the House on 25th September. I thought perhaps that might be the case. Other than that I have to rely on the figures for the year ended June 1 969. They give some idea of the vast undertaking that the Post Office is. Its balance sheet shows that its assets exceed $2,000m. By far the larger part of those assets is employed in the telecommunications side as distinct from the postal side of the undertaking. In terms of the total turnover, a rough sort of assessment is that about one quarter is found in the postal service and the remainder, which is slightly less than three quarters, is found in the telecommunications service. The figures which the Minister gave in connection with the Budget show that without an adjustment in charges the trading results for 1970-71 would show an anticipated loss of $llm. That loss would be made up of a loss on the postal side of the activities of $30m and a profit on the telecommunications side of $ 19m. At least on one side of the activity, the part with the greatest mechanisation, there is a profit of $19m while on the other side, the part with the greatest intensity of labour, there is a loss of $30m. 
Of course some of the increased charges will go to that part which makes a profit. The overall results are being scrambled, and the profit that is made on the telephone side will be used to help to subsidise the loss that is made on the postal side. I want to point to some of the rather curious kinds of philosophy that at the moment seem to interline the operation of the Post Office. 1 want to point to some of the anomalies and inconsistencies that exist. The first is that one part makes a loss and the other part makes a profit, but part of the increased charges is on the postal side, which will certainly diminish the loss, and part is on the telephone side, which will augment the profit. The Postmaster-General intimated that the overal estimated result for 1970-71, taking into account the proposed new charges, will be that the loss on the postal side will be reduced from $30m to $9m but the profit on the telecommunications side will increase from $19m to S39m, making an overall profit of $30m for the 12 months. 
In this debate I do not want to go down the line of earlier argument again. I still hold the view that I have espoused here before, that this situation is arrived at after the Post Office has already had to make a provision for what is called 'interest' on the capital that is employed in it. Looking at the figures in Statement No. 3 - Estimates of Receipts, 1970-71, which forms part of the Budget papers, one sees the table entitled 'Other Revenue' shows that for the year 1968-69, the amount set aside for payment by the Post Office as interest on capital was $94,591,000. For the year 1969-70 it had increased to $106,354,000. In 1970-71 it is estimated that the receipts by reason of the interest component, the expenditure to the Post Office and the receipts to the Consolidated Revenue will be $122,503,000. In my view that shows that the Post Office is not a bad sort of undertaking commercially, either, on a capitalisation by now in excess of $2,000m. I suppose it is probably about $2,200m now. The last figures available show it to be in excess of $2,000m, and the new capital developments in that year were over $200m. So a return of $122m on a capital of about $2,200m, before computing profit, is not bad. It is about 6 per cent on the total sum involved. 
This amount allows the telephone side of the activities to show quite a handsome profit and the other side, in my view, not a very significant loss. On its old reckonings the Post Office would have shown quite a substantial profit 10 or 15 years ago, before the interest component was introduced. One of the complaints from this side of the Mouse is that in many respects the Post Office is not only being used as a public utility but it is also being used as a taxing machine. The profit that is made on it and the interest that is charged today mean that taxes somewhere else have to be so much less. I know that there is a lot of circular argument in this kind of thing and there will be a lot of illustrations of the circular argument when I indicate some of the effects of the increased charges, particularly as they operate on publications. I make the point that even after the inclusion of more than SI 00m, or about 16 per cent of the total turnover of the Post Office, for the one item, interest, which is a fairly substantial component, the telephone side still shows a profit. 
I can understand the argument that is advanced for the postal side, lt is said that this is a field of activity which is largely manual. Somewhere among the maze of figures that one has to contemplate to be able to understand the position, it is said that on the postal side labour costs make up about 70 per cent of the total costs of the undertaking. Therefore if wages rose and there were no increastd productivity in the wage one would think that there was a logical case for increasing charges to meet what was really 70 per cent of the total costs. It is pointed out that in the last year for which figures are available, with  a  1 per cent increase in the labour force the post office did 6 per cent more business. It would be a pretty crude index to suggest that, because labour represents 70 per cent of total costs, if wages go up by a certain amount charges should go up to meet that 70 per cent of costs. I do not think that argument quite holds water when one takes into account that labour is employed in association with a certain amount of machinery and technical assistance. There is a productivity factor. If productivity for this year reaches 5 per cent the Post Office will be doing better than many other branches of industry. Overall productivity in Australia during the year was less than 3 per cent, so the Post Office has not done badly. To suggest that additional charges should be imposed in respect of telephones, which is the side of the Post Office that makes the profit, is certainly breaching the philosophy expressed in relation to postal charges, that is, that charges should be increased to cover costs. Telephone operations, after meeting threequarters of the interest component of $100m, still showed a profit of $)9m last year and it is estimated that they will show a profit this year of $39m. What kind of philosophy is behind the increase in telephone charges I do not know. 
I suppose honourable members have received, as I have, letters from various people that point to what they regard as anomalies in the increases in postal charges particularly for registered mail and periodicals. I have here three or four samples of such letters. I have one from K.  G.  Murray Publishing Co. Pty Ltd, one from Page Publications Pty Ltd, one from Thomson Publications Pty Ltd and another one from the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria. They all point to  what these  bodies regard as anomalies in the proposed increases in postal charges for certain periodicals. The charges on some periodicals will go up by 20 per cent but in some cases the increases are of the magnitude of 200 per cent. It has been suggested that there does not seem to be much logic in the varying increases. If the reason for the increases is the need to cover costs, why increase the charge on some articles by 20 per cent and on others by 200 per cent? The increased postal charges on some items will place  a  significant burden on voluntary organisations and professional organisations. 
The letter I received from Page Publications Pty Ltd refers to a journal that is of some interest to some people here. I refer to the 'Australian Worker', the official organ of the Australian Workers Union. It comes out fortnightly and has a circulation of over 59,000. Its present annual postage bill is $19,214 and it is expected that the annual postage bill will now be $42,172 an increase of 120 per cent. Another trade union journal is the 'Printing Trades Journal', which is a monthly publication with a circulation of 41,300. Its present annual postal bill is $4,128. Its expected annual postage bill under the new rates is $9,912, an increase of 140 per cent. The 'ETU News', which is the journal of the Electrical Trades Union, is a monthly publication with a total circulation of 58,970. Its present annual postage bill is $3,258. It will rise to $14,148, an increase of 300 per cent. Of course the magnitude of the increase depends to some extent on whether the journal is a big one and falls within a certain weight range when it is posted in bulk. The gentlemen of the Press may be interested in the 'Journalist', which is the organ of their trade union. It comes out monthly and has a circulation of 6,500. Its present annual postage bill is $390. It will rise to $1,560, an increase of 300 per cent. 
It is hard to know how this sort of thing can be justified. The Minister indicated that some articles are charged  ic  whereas the minimum cost of handling them is 1.7c. So articles on which the charge has been increased by only 20 per cent will still be carried at a loss but many others will be now carried at a substantial profit. Why should trade union journals be used to subsidise religious and charitable publications, which attract a much lesser rate? That question demands an answer. 
I can quote other examples. The letter I received from K.  G.  Murray Publishing Company, which I assume was sent to all honourable members, states: 
This letter is unique. It is the first that this wholly Australian, 34-year-old company has ever written to ils parliamentary members. 
The letter then goes on to list some of the publications of this company. They include 
Australian House and Garden', 'Australian Country', 'Tailor and Men's Wear', the Textile Journal of Australia', 'Wheels', Australian Outdoors', 'Seacraft' and Flair'. One is rather astonished at the number of publications in existence. In fact I have come across one that I never knew existed before. It is called 'AARDS'. It contains details of business, Press, staff and union publications and lists literally thousands of publications that circulate in Austrafia that are of particular interest often to quite small groups but which nevertheless are important as a means of communication in professional, union, cultural and other sorts of bodies. 
There is another disturbing factor in the letter from K. G. Murray Publishing Co. The letter is signed by  Mr Geraghty  as the General Manager. He states: 
In many cases it will be cheaper to print overseas and distribute through the postage of the country in which the printer is located as do overseas journals whose procedures require distribution in Australia. Where previously only books were sent out of Australia for printing, a flow of magazines out of the country has now commenced. 
I simply point to the fact that only a few weeks ago in this House we sanctioned a bounty to protect the publishing industry in Australia against this very thing. It was found that books that had previously been printed in Australia were being printed more cheaply in Hong Kong or Tokyo and were then being sent here. The overall cost was cheaper. The bounty was introduced to allow the survival of some publishing companies which would otherwise have been destroyed. These postal increases will accentuate that kind of thing and this practice will be extended to magazines. One firm has indicated that postage accounts for 30 per cent of its total costs, including printing. That is so in many of these undertakings. The postal bill for some publications will now go up by 300 per cent. I understand that publishing firms and others interested in publications sought to have an interview with the Minister to point out some of these anomalies but that they were not able to arrange a mutually suitable time. I hope that before this measure is finally passed by the Senate the Minister will still find time to see these people. 
If the Minister saw them, that is fair enough. My information is that some of the groups at any rate, when they sought an interview, were told that no time was available, which does not seem to me to match the Minister's usual courtesy in these matters. I hope that if my information is correct - it may relate to a group different from the one he saw - the Minister will see these people. I understand that they would have liked to see him. They did not expect that this measure would come on as quickly as it did, I did not expect it to come on until late this week. Nevertheless I know that the new charges will operate from 1st October and I suppose that the Minister wants to have the legislation passed by then. 
A few Saturdays ago I attended one of those pleasant functions that come on at this time of the year, lt was the opening of a bowling club. I received a free plug from a member of the Victorian Bowling Association. I do not know his name offhand but the Victorian Bowling Association always sends a delegate to the opening of a club. The delegate made the point that the postal increases will mean an increase of $9,000 per annum in the cost of circulating the monthly bowls journals. I am told that the ladies bowling association is faced with a similar sort of impost. The increased cost has to come out of the subscriptions paid by ordinary people in the community. I sometimes wonder where charges of this kind begin and end. Because of the increases in postage charges union subscriptions will increase. However, subscriptions paid to unions are allowed as tax deductions and some of the increase therefore is borne by the revenue. I think occasionally that these sort of things should be more carefully considered. Businesses write postal expenditure off as an expense. The profit of a business is either reduced or the price to the consumer is increased to keep the profit at its former level. 
Postal charges are being increased by a government that claims to be fighting inflation. What can be more inflationary than this sort of thing? The increase of $42m this year will add perhaps another percentage point to the rate of inflation during the coming year. Having regard to the increased telephone charges, there is no justification for increasing postal charges and loading this increase onto an undertaking that is already profitable. I simply ask those who support the philosophy of the Government to look at a few contradictions. One contradiction which runs contrary to what the Government is doing in regard to newspaper periodicals is what the Government has proposed in the field of country telephone services. I have no objection to the country telephone service being made as cheap as possible, but if the Government is subsidising, as it is, the first 15 miles of telephone service under the new arrangements at less than actual cost, this practice is contrary to the argument that is being used about periodicals. I am not objecting to the country telephone service being conducted in this manner. However, I am pointing to the inconsistency of what is being done and the fact that to cover up some of these other things the Government is putting a much higher impost on periodicals. 
Let us contemplate what this increase means to the Australian Workers Union, which I have referred to before. If this union still intends to publish its journal the cost to it will be another $23,000. How many new members does the AWU need to recruit to pay the extra $23,000? These are the sorts of things that I think have not been examined. Of course, people for whom postage rates have increased by 300 per cent, 200 per cent or 100 per cent point to those people whose rate has gone up by 20 per cent and say: 'Why could we not all have gone up by about 40 per cent? Why do we have to bear these heavy increases?' The Government has made a fairly philosophical distinction between the 2. I was rather interested to see the following remarks in the second reading speech of the Postmaster-General: 
These concession rates represent, in effect,  a  substantial subsidy to the publishing and printing industry and to many organisations, ranging from religious, charitable and welfare organisations to social and recreational clubs. Whilst the fostering of a strong publishing and printing industry in Australia is important, this function is not appropriate for the Post Office. 
The speech continued: 
Similarly, the activities of the many organisations helped may be desirable, but again it is not the role of the Post Office to support religious denominations, charitable bodies, educational, scientific and technical institutions and the like. 
The Government will continue to subsidise organisations in the religious category because even with 20 per cent-- 
Yes, and this has been done in the past. I suppose people do not get newspapers as freely by post now as they did in the past. But basically I suppose there would have been no Post Office at all if it were not for the simple letter that most people send through the post. There is no doubt that the simple letter would pay for itself at a charge of 5c. But this charge will be increased to 6c. In the Post Office mechanism there are areas of profit and there are areas of loss. However, there does not seem to be any single philosophy as to what has been chosen to be increased and what has been left alone. The Government has even given a new subsidy to country telephone users. There seems to be some warrant in this case because the telephone section of the Postmaster-General's Department makes a profit anyway, and it will make a larger profit as a result of this activity. But this is by the way. 
I would like to conclude on one matter because I have taken a few minutes longer than I intended to take. As a citizen I would be happy if I did not receive half of the mail that is delivered to me. I have in front of me 3 documents that were delivered to me on 1 day. One reads: 
Dear  Mr Crean, 
When we asked our computer who among the friends of Reader's Digest in the Middle Park area should be selected to receive 5 lucky number contest 'cheques' the answer came back immediately: 

 Mr. F. D. Crean 
The same day I received a letter addressed: 
Dear Frank Crean'. The letter read: 
You and a group of Middle Park residents are being invited to subscribe to Time at the special introductory rate of only 12c a week.  in  the samemail I received a letter addressed: Dear  Mr Francis  Crean . The letter stated: 
You and a group of Albert Park SC6 residents. . . . 
The Post Office is a bit behind with its post code Sc6. The letter went on to say that I was invited to subscribe to Time'. All 3 letters came on the 1 day. I would have torn them up but I wanted to use them as illustrations. I wonder whether this mail pays for itself. I am inclined to think it does. The Government of course is virtually turning the Post Office into a distributor of trade circulars. In my view that is not the function of the Post Office. It may be - I think this is what has happened - that it is cheaper to do it this way than some other way. I am inclined to think that the Government is making a rather inefficient use of quite skilful services by allowing this sort of practice. The mail I get some mornings must weigh pounds. Half of it finishes up in the waste paper basket. It is a pretty curious exercise to consider that even though I might throw this mail into the waste paper basket the distribution of such mail is profitable to the Post Office. I do not think anyone could justify rendering a service such as that. If this was not the case we could think of some funny things we could do which could yield a profit to the Post Office. Fertile imaginations could think of many things. But when the end product finishes up in the waste paper basket I am inclined to think that the time has come when we should put a stop to this kind of practice. 
Well we have shortened them and that may be a good thing. But when we have an undertaking as significant as the Post Office with a $500m turnover, a capital of $2,000m and accounting for at least 24- per cent of gross national product I think it is worthy of some interest in this House. 
One of the Government's arguments for keeping the department instead of having a corporation is that members may ask questions and debate matters connected with a department in this House. But how much opportunity do they get. This debate will be gagged at 6 o'clock. 
Well, it is a shame. In my view this is the manner in which many important matters are treated and I for one make no apologies for taking the time that I have. I repeat that the Opposition will take a vote on the amendment when the gag is applied. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Is the amendment seconded? 
J desire to make a personal explanation on an entirely unrelated matter. In a question 1 asked on Tuesday, 22nd September, I stated that a certain  Mr Beasley  was a director of a company known as Pace Insurance Co. and that that company had a paid up capital of $2. Yesterday I received a letter from  Mr Colin  McDonald, the General Manager of Pace, giving the following information: 

 Mr J. D. Beasley was for a brief period a Director of this Company but his resignation was accepted on 22nd October 1969. 
The paid up capital of this Company is $140,000. 
This Company is in no way associated with any other insurance company. 
I just want to put that on record. 
by leave - I should like to ask the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  about the other side of this agreement - the arrangements that apply to mail sent from New Zealand to Australia. This morning I was supplied with information by an organisation that publishes a document called 'The Plain Truth', lt is published at a place called Ambassador College and it is part of the world-wide Assembly of the Church of God. The magazine has a circulation of about 50,000 copies monthly. I understand that if it is mailed in Australia for delivery in Australia its price is about 9c a copy. On the other hand if it is mailed in New Zealand for delivery to Australia - it makes the journey across the ocean - it is delivered by the Australian Post Office and instead of costing 9c it costs only 3c. ( would suggest that there is something in the nature of an anomaly here. Apparently it is cheaper to have this publication printed and posted in New Zealand for distribution in Australia than to have it printed and posted in Australia for distribution in Australia. This seems to be quite an anomaly. The situation will be aggravated by the new rates and it will now cost 12c if posted in Australia or about 4 times the cost if posted in New Zealand. I ask that consideration be given to this aspect of the agreement because it seems to me that if this applies to one publication, which has a circulation of 50,000 monthly, there must be other publications in the same category and the situation will be aggravated by the recent postal increases in Australia. 
The Opposition intends to oppose these Bills because they are part of the 
Budget system that imposes taxation increases with one hand and grants certain reductions with the other. The increases in sales tax are regressive in their incidence and inflationary in their effects. For that reason it is the intention of the Opposition to oppose the measures. For reasons that were explained by the Minister for Immigration and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and explained in technical detail also in the 48th report of the Commissioner of Taxation, 9 Bills have to be presented on a sales tax measure because of the way in which the tax is imposed. I do not want to go into the technical details, but those who are perhaps new to the House and sometimes wonder why 9 Bills have to be introduced will find the explanation on page 63 of the 48th report of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
This year §645m will be collected in sales tax. Next to excise duty, income tax on individuals and company tax, sales tax is the fourth most prolific item in the Commonwealth Budget, lt is interesting to note the history of sales tax from its beginning on 1st August 1930. We have now had more than 40 years of sales tax in Australia. Table No. 34 on page 65 of the 48th report of the Commissioner of Taxation gives the history of the rates of sales tax as they have applied from 1st August 1930 to just prior to those increases. Originally the tax was a simple one of  2i  per cent. Since that there was a general rate, a Second Schedule, a Third Schedule, a Fourth Schedule, a Fifth Schedule and a Sixth Schedule. Two of those do not operate any more, so there are 4 operative rates at the moment. 
These Bills propose to increase the present maximum 25 per cent rate of sales tax to 27i per cent. The principal item to which it will apply, of course, is the motor car. When the Minister made his second reading speech he circulated a document indicating the items to which this 2i per cent increase would apply. Later on I want to say something about some of the items. The increase will be responsible for a further $29m revenue in this financial year; that is, from the time it became operative up to 30th June next year, $29m more will be collected than if the increase had not taken place. That, of course, will be part of the total of $645m. The Opposition opposes these measures because our view is - and I hope that some figures 1 will give in a moment will support this - that the Government has been mistaken in its Budget strategy. It has presumed the continuance of an inflationary situation and it has thought that increasing the amount of indirect taxation will lead to a decline in the rate of inflation. I am not quite sure how this philosophy is supposed to be worked out. 1 understand that the increased sales tax, let us say, on a motor car has already meant an average increase of $60 for a new motor vehicle - an increase of 10 per cent. The number of new motor vehicles purchased each year in Australia is over 400,000, rising towards a figure of 500,000 per annum. If we collect §600 on something like 450,000 units this means a total of something like $270m, a major part of the total sales tax collected. It seems to me that there is not a great deal of logic in the construction of the sales tax as to what is taxed and what is not taxed. There is a fairly large body of sales which are exempt altogether and it is probably a good thing that there are not taxes on foodstuffs, clothing and so on. Again, if one looks at the statistics of the Commissioner of Taxation one finds from a table that this tax is collected on only about one quarter, 1 think, of the total retail sales in Australia during a year. The tax is imposed at what is described as the level of the last wholesaler. But if we take the financial year 1962-63 as a guide, in that year what the Commissioner of Taxation describes as the net effective rate of sales tax was 14.1 per cent on those goods on which it was applied. That figure has risen progressively each year. 
From 1961-62 until the last year for which full statistic1! were available, which was 1968-69, it had increased to 15.1 per cent on the items on which it was applicable. So there has been a systematic increase in the impact of this tax in total and that is, of course, borne out by the figures of total collection which have risen again from $290m in 1961-62 to an anticipated figure this year of $645m. If one looks at the gross national product over the same period, sales tax is now a higher proportion of gross national product or gross national expenditure, whichever way one likes to look at it, than it was many years ago. In a moment I. would like to say a little more about the philosophy of taxation in this context. Tomorrow we will be talking about the alterations in the income tax structure. In the course of his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  indicated that he hoped that what had been done with the income tax structure would only be the beginning of a complete new look at the total tax structure in Australia. I hope that this will be the case, and one of the methods of taxation that ought to be looked at, in addition to the direct form of taxation, is the multiplicity of items that are called indirect taxation. They are not all levied at the Commonwealth level; the majority of taxes that are available to the States and local authorities fall into this category of indirect taxation, and when one takes the total impact of taxation throughout Australia at all 3 levels of government - and it amounts now to something like 30 per cent of the gross national product - there has again been an increasingly greater reliance than there should be on these indirect taxes as a source of revenue. 
Recently in Canada - and I hope some day that the same kind of thing will happen in this country - there was a royal commission on taxation. It presented its report in 1966. On page 146 of the series Penguin Modern Economics Readings' in the publication titled 'Public Finance' there is an extract from the report of the royal commission on taxation in Canada and it had this to say about sales tax: 
Rigid adherence to our equity principles-  they were the principles that the Commission felt should apply in a total structure -  would call  for  the complete abolition of all sales taxes. Any adverse effects which the abolition of sales taxes and the increased reliance on personal income taxes would have on the rate of saving and on Canada's international competitive position could be offset by changes in monetary and trade policies and the fairness of the system would be improved. We do not advocate such a course, in  part  because we think that virtually the same result could be achieved in a way that would be less disruptive. For reasons to be explained later, we recommend that the federal government abandon its manufacturers sales tax and replace it with an indirect retail sales tax collected, if possible, by the provinces. Having taken this step the federal government should then  seek  to provide the provinces with sales tax room in exchange for provincial withdrawal-  there is a different scheme of arrangement in Canada, of course -  from the imposition of corporation income taxes. 
It goes on further in that vein, but the suggestion there is that there may be, even if we decide eventually to retain some sort of sales tax, better ways of collecting it than the existing methods. A couple of years ago I made reference in this House to a device that has been adopted in some of the European countries, that is, a tax called the value added tax. It is a rather complicated mechanism and I do not intend and could not explain in simple language its application. But nevertheless when one is talking of forms of taxation one has to be concerned with the complexity of the problem. The other day I was interested in reading in one of those statements that emanate from the Prime Minister's Department - one of the various utterances that he and others make - that in the course of a discussion the other day he said that he thought it was not a bad idea to toss ideas around in public without indicating what one's view on a proposition was because in matters that are controversial by so doing one may perhaps enlighten the public as to the complexity of the problem. I think the same sort of thing applies when one comes to talk about reforming the total tax structure. 
Honourable members ought to realise that it is a most complicated system that we are dealing with. It is one that has grown up over a great number of years and which it is not possible to radically change quickly. 1 have often thought that it would not be a bad idea if we could have a tax holiday and say that on 30th June 1971 all taxes throughout Australia will cease, but then add the unfortunate rider that on 1st July 1971 a new set will come into operation. Because it is virtually impossible to do that one has to make changes rather more slowly and this is why I think that when reductions or increases are made they should sometimes be made a little more carefully than they are. Certainly in regard to the income tax adjustments we will be discussing tomorrow, in my view they were made in the worst possible manner. 
The reason given by the Government for these increases in sales tax is that it hopes they will lessen somehow the impact of inflation raging in the community. To me it is a rather dubious proposition. Let us say, for example, that you increase the sales tax on a motor car so that the price is now S60 greater than it was. I think it is a matter of fine judgment as to whether you really restrict the sale of motor cars or whether you are restricting the sale of something else. 1 used the argument in this place once before that you put a tax on cauliflowers in order to reduce the consumption of cabbages. I think overall that this is the intention of the Government in this instance. 1 do not really think that the Government believed that the sale of motor cars would be affected very much because it has budgeted for a further $29m during twothirds of the financial year even after this impost. 
I was rather interested this morning to read an article in today's 'Financial Review' written by  Mr P.  J. Sheehan of the Australian National University, lt is headed Monetary reasons why an Australian business slowdown could continue'. Table 1 in the article is headed 'Selected production series 1970. (Seasonally adjusted, average of monthly figures.)' and he gave the total motor vehicles per thousand units. In the first quarter of this year there was a total sale throughout Australia of 40.6 thousand motor vehicles. In the second quarter the figure had declined to 39.1 thousand. In the period from July to August it was proportionately 37.8 thousand or, as he says, a percentage change of this quarter over the first quarter of 7 per cent. In the text of the article he said: 
Total registrations of new motor vehicles rose somewhat in July-August over the monthly average of the second quarter, but remained below the level of the first quarter. 
Retail sales were virtually flat in May, June and July, although they pulled up a little in August. The rate of growth of spending on capital investment other than construction pulled back sharply in the June quarter. 
The portent of his article is that it is his belief that the Government has misjudged the total tempo of the economy and whilst there may be inflationary trends, nevertheless there are signs of declining economic activity relative to the total population and the total activity. I submit that if what he says continues to be borne out it is likely that there will not be as many motor cars sold as was projected. The motor car industry in Australia is fairly significant. As some of my colleagues already know, there has been a dreadful impact as a result of the farming situation upon the sale of tractors in our economy, leading to a decline in the industrial area of Sunshine in Victoria where some hundreds of men have been laid off since the beginning of this year. Even now the number of men employed is continuing to reduce further. One would hope that that kind of impact will not continue further. Nevertheless this shows bow careful one has to be when judging the effects of budgetary measures. 
To me it has seemed always to be a curious philosophy that somehow you restrict inflation by increasing the price of certain articles by imposing additional tax on them. This same point is made in this rather interesting annual compilation called Impacts on the Australian Economy 1969-70' by 2 young economists, Messrs Coysh and Treyvaud. I commend them for the speed with which they issue this information. The matters they write about in this book are based on the current Budget. They say: 
Earlier we referred to the fallacy of indirect taxing as an anti-inflationary device. Indirect taxes directly raise the price of products and since they are levied mainly on goods with a fairly inelastic demand, it is possible that a greater amount of money will now be spent on those goods. 
If there is a greater amount of money spent on those goods there will be a lesser amount of money spent elsewhere  and  that seems to be where the deflationary aspect lies. The authors continue: 
It may follow that less money is saved, which means a greater volume o£ money in circulation and hence a growing pressure on demand. 
So the effects are not always easy to follow; nor can one be dogmatic as to what they can be. They continue: 
This factor coupled with a direct inflation of the consumer price index by virtue of the artificially higher prices of the affected goods will obviously worsen the inflationary process that the policy was designed to remedy. 
An alternative view is taken by the Treasurer, namely that in terms of influencing the trend in demand, changes in indirect taxes of these sorts have a more immediate effect than changes in other forms of taxation. 
In his Budget the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  actually reduced direct taxes and increased indirect taxes. The authors continue: 
He also expects that company taxes will reduce the funds available for investment by companies and. the dividends to shareholders. 
Again this simply shows how difficult it is to make precise judgments in these matters. It is the view of the Australian Labor 
Party that the increases announced in this Budget - this Bill accounts for $29m of the increases - will be regressive in their impact as between individuals; that rather than abate inflation they will tend to feed it. lt ought to be realised sometimes that you can actually inflate the economy into a deflationary situation if real incomes are not adjusted fast enough to mop up the goods and services available in a community. 
I think that is the point we are reaching in Australia at the moment. One rather astonishing phenomenon today Ls that everybody is alarmed by what is called the tendency for wages to rise. I point out again, as I have done in this place on more than one occasion, that the wage earner is the preponderant form of economic unit or spending unit in the community. More than 80 per cent of the people with incomes derive them as wage earners. If they are to maintain their standards and gel some share of the increased productivity, and if prices continue to rise as they have, the only way by which the wage earner can maintain and improve bis position is by increasing wages. But then the problem arises: What about the other sections in the community? lt is rather astonishing now to hear the number of people beginning to talk about the necessity of price control. It is also rather astonishing when we realise the areas those people represent. The wage earner always has insisted that if there were some measure of control of the prices of the goods which his wage is supposed to buy there would not necessarily be the same need to go for annual wage adjustments. But in default of controlling prices just as effectively as you try to regulate wages, the only course open to the wage earner is to seek higher wages. I hope that the Government will grapple with this very serious problem in the community. It is one of considerable complexity and affects the whole economy in aggregate. Something should be done to provide justice to all sections of the community - not only wage earners but those on fixed incomes and those people whose incomes are uncertain, such as the farming section and so on - and to curb the capacity of those who are able to adjust their prices to suit themselves. 
In the few minutes that remain I would like to draw the attention of the House to the complaints of 2 groups in the community and no doubt there are more with complaints. However, the 2 groups I want to mention are the soft drink manufacturers on the one hand and the cosmetic and toiletry manufacturers on the other. Fortunately the burden of the soft drink people is not increased in this Budget. Although there is no increase as far as their product is concerned they still complain that their product should not be taxed at all. The cosmetic and toiletry group argues likewise. This group has had an additional burden placed upon it - the amount of sales tax on articles in this category is to be increased from 25 per cent to 27i per cent. In a letter written in June 1970 the Cosmetic and Toiletry Manufacturers Association of Australia said: 
The Bill now before the House seeks to amend the law relating to income tax in respect of convertible notes. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are  the  constituent items of  the  sum  of  $820m in 1960-61 and $1598m in 1969-70 as shown in Statement No. 7 of the Budget Speech 1970-71  under  the description 'Cash benefits  to  persons'. ' 
What percentage to gross national expenditure does each constitutent item bear. 
What percentage of the total population were  the  receipients of (a) child endowment and (b)  age  pensions in 1960-61 and 1969-70, respectively. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment : 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted because whilst it reduces rates of taxation it does so in a regressive manner'. 
The measures that are before the House impose the rates of income tax as they will operate on individuals and companies for this financial year. I would point out that, as is disclosed in the Budget details, the income tax on individuals is expected to yield $3.036m this year and the company tax as applied this financial year is expected to yield $l,401.m. In essence, a total of about$4,437m will be collected as a result of the application of these rates of tax. I would like to raise a point that was touched on last evening by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who, when dealing with the present levels of taxation in Australia, pointed with some pride to the fact that direct taxation, as it operates in Australia at the moment at the Commonwealth level - he stressed this - is a higher proportion of total taxation now than it was previously. This sort of comparison distorts the very real circumstance that, in Australia, taxation is not levied at only one level of government; it is levied at the Commonwealth level, the State level and the local authority level. 
Because the Commonwealth is the sole collector of income tax. the major direct tax in the economy, and of company tax the picture appears to be brighter as far as the Commonwealth is concerned. But it is a picture that is significantly different when the total of taxation levied in Australia is taken into account. It will be seen from the total figures - I quote from a compila tion that I have here - that the Australian national accounts for the last financial year 1968-69 show that that year the Commonwealth collected an aggregate of $5,486m, some $3,41 3m of which was from direct taxes and the residue, about $2, 000m, from indirect taxes. The States and local authorities collected an aggregate of $1 , 208m, only $133m of which could be classified as direct taxes. When one takes the total pattern into account and also the excess that public authorities charge for the services they provide, which has been increasing in recent years and which last year aggregated $800m - this is a charge upon the users of public utility undertakings such as electricity and gas - one finds that the position is distorted even more into the regressive pattern of indirect tax as against direct tax. 
Taking the whole level of taxation in Australia, at the 3 levels, it is still true that approximately 50 per cent of it is direct tax, nearly all collected by the Commonwealth, and the residue collected at the other 2 levels. The Commonwealth also collects sales tax. excise and so on.It is a 50-50 pattern still and it has not altered very significantly over the last several years.I am sorry that I cannot put my hand on the figures for the last 4 years which are contained in the White Paper on national income. We now turn to the very significant question of the equity of taxation. The Treasurer in his Budget speech spoke about the revision of taxing. He said: 
In deciding on this kind of revision, we have had regard to the way in which the incidence of the effective burden of tax has been altered by past rises in incomes. Effective tax rates have increased more on lower and middle incomes than on higher incomes, and in giving some relief from the effects of the past trends, there is a clear case for ensuring that most of the relief will go to lower and middle income earners. 
I submit that the present form of relief docs no such thing. If one had chosen to redistribute about $250m of tax, as these income tax concessions do, one could not think of any worse way to do it. Contrary to what has been said, the maximum advantage goes to those with the highest incomes and the fewest dependants, and the least of the relief goes to those with the lowest incomes and the most dependants. I will illustrate that in a moment by reference to a couple of tables.I emphasise again that the tax to be collected this year will be something more than$3,000m, even with the reductions aggregating about$250m proposed in this measure. People say rather glibly that direct tax is preferable to indirect tax. That ought to be true, but it is not necessarily true if inequities are allowed to creep into the income tax structure. I submit that this is what has happened in Australia. The mathematical curve of the rate of progression has remained unaltered since 1954. There have not been very great alterations made to the concessions that can be claimed for dependants such as wives and children. 
Hansard of 15th September 1970.I have adapted that table, which shows a range of incomes from $417 to $100,000 and over, by dividing it into 3 ranges of income, $417 to$4,000 - $417 being the minimum income subject to taxation - $4,000 to $10,000 and $10,000 plus. I have consulted the Minister in charge of the debate and with the concurrence of honourable membersI incorporate that table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="070131197010140_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is an adaptation of the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition and the details contained in the document entitled Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics' which was brought down with the Budget. In Australia for the year ended June 1968. which is the last year for which statistics are available, there were nearly 5 million taxpayers. There has been a lot of talk about what is a middle income and not much attention given in my view to what is a low income.I have heard the range quoted as being as high as$3, 000 at the bottom and $16,000 at the top. These statistics are based on grade of actual income, that is, the income before the concessions are taken off. In Australia for the year ended June 1968 only 71.000 people out of 5 million - less than 2 per cent - had incomes in excess of $10,000. As I will point out in another table, the 2 per cent group which had incomes in excess of $1 0,000 was responsible for 20 per cent of the income tax collected. But when we talk about giving relief to people receiving in excess of$1 0,000I simply submit that we are talking about a fairly select section of the total taxpaying public. 
The lowest income rangeI have taken, $417 to$4,000- $4,000 is about $77 per week- accounted for 4,027,000 or 80 per cent of taxpayers. It is a bit difficult in Australia to make a proper appraisal of the weight of taxation because whilst there is considerable detail in the statistics there is in fact no distinction between married and single taxpayers. In the lower levels of income the statistics tend to be distorted by 2 factors. They comprise single people who have just commenced work and, to an extent, some of the effects of what is called income splitting. That is to say, what should be effectively one income, by reason of resort to partnerships, trusts and private companies and so on is divided into more than one income. If one runs a farm, for instance, it is not very difficult to have it regarded as a partnership. If there is an income on the one farm of $10,000 it can be divided into 2 incomes of $5,000. It makes a considerable difference to the amount of tax paid on the farm. The other matter that cannot be separated very clearly except by a kind of deductive process is the degree of claims that are made for dependants. Nevertheless, it is possible by a deductive process to do this and, according to the statistics, if one takes the character 'spouses' - I do not think there are many wives who claim for their husbands and I think it is still preponderantly the husband who claims for the wife; therefore in my view one can use the category 'spouses and housekeepers' for a comparison of those male taxpayers who still claim support for their wives - there are 1,360,000 spouses claimed for and 874,000 of them, which is near enough to 2 out of 3, are in this lowest range of income, that is, less than $4,000 per annum or $77 per week. There is almost the same proportion of children claimed for in the same group. 
The interesting thing about the table sought by the Leader of the Opposition is that if one starts with aggregate actual income for taxation purposes of something like $15,000 that is reduced to a taxable income of $12,000 after allowance for these various concessions which aggregate on their face value nearly $3,000-$2,850 in fact. The information obtained by the question asked bv the Leader of the Opposition is that those concessions when claimed meant that the revenue lost or forgone was nearly S900m. Just to take one item, life assurance, as an example, under the pro visions of the income tax law if a person is able to save $1,200 per annum for life assurance or superannuation he can claim it as a taxation deduction. This is nearly $23 a week. How many people in the community can afford to save $23 a week in the first place and are they entitled to be assisted by the revenue for so doing? I commend the details on page 1155 of Hansard to honourable members. The allowance of those concessions meant that the revenue lost $19 lm which, by way of comparison, was more than that allowed for all the wives of taxpayers in Australia. It was more than was allowed for all the children that were claimed as dependants. It exceeded the child endowment bill for the vear. 
I received an answer yesterday to a question which I had asked. The answer shows - the figures are in the Budget - that in 1969-70 a lesser proportion of gross national expenditure was devoted to social welfare payments than was the case in 1960-61. This answer, which is in yesterday's Hansard for those who are interested, shows that in 1969-70 child endowment was 0.73 per cent of the gross national expenditure whereas in 1960-61, 9 years earlier, it was 0.98 per cent of the gross national expenditure. Another interesting point is that relative to the total number there was an increase in the proportion of children receiving child endowment in 1 969-70 compared to 1960-61. This shows the deterioration that has taken place in the real value of child endowment payments. 
For those honourable members who have some sympathy for what are called repatriation benefits I provide these details: In 1960-61 repatriation benefits were 0.98 per cent, or nearly 1 per cent, of the gross national expenditure. In 1969-70 they had fallen to 0.74 per cent of the gross national expenditure. Th s was a deterioration in proportion to the wealth of the nation of one-quarter. Something which is rather contradictory and which has been built into the income tax structure is that the allowance made for family and other concessions runs counter to the logic of social welfare payments. As an example let us take 2 families each with 3 children under the age of 16 years. Each family receives $3 per week in child endowment irrespective of the income of the family. But if the father of one family has an actual income of $3,000 and the other father has an actual income of 810,000 the tax concession to the first family, the lower income family, is worth $2.56 a week but to the second family, the higher income family, it is $5.17 a week which is almost double the first amount. It is quite a feasible proposition that most of the taxpayers of Australia and most families would be better off if the Government did away with the taxation concessions for children and doubled the amount of child endowment which was payable. I submit that these are the sorts of things that ought to be looked at when we are examining the taxation structure. 
Under the new arrangement I have not very much time left in which to speak in this debate. Also built into the existing rales structure is the effect of inflation. I will take as a comparison what is called the average weekly earnings. In Australia the average weekly earnings at present are about $77 per week or about $4,000 per year. The existing tax rate scale was last altered in 1953-54. Taking the average weekly earnings in 1953-54 as an index of 100, that index in June 1970 has risen to 237.2. Using the same basis that I have on these figures it was 201.2 in June 1968 or almost exactly double in 1967-68 what it had been in 1953. In 1953-54 the average weekly earnings were in the region of $34 to $35 or $1,700 a year. In 1968 the average had doubled to $3,400 a year. If one looks at the marginal rate of tax, which is the amount paid on an additional Si of income earned, in 1954 it was 17.6c in the $1 but in 1968 the marginal rate had risen to 29ic in the $1. 
Average weekly earnings go up for 2 reasons: More than half because of inflation and something like the other half because the worker is getting his share of the increase of productivity that has taken place in a period of over 15 years. But when we take into account that more than half of every $1 the wage earner gets as a wage increase is due to price increases and less than half is due to productivity increase we see that something like 30 per cent is taken away in the additional tax that he pays. So virtually he has been robbed of some of the fruits of his progress. This is one of the reasons why the Government should periodically alter the progressive scale. 
I do not know whether people are aware of the distribution of incomes in Australia so. 1 prepared a table from the statistics which are available in the booklet 'Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics'. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate the table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="070131197010140_34_4.jpg"></graphic>

In compiling that table 1 divided the actual income as revealed in the taxation statistics into what are called dectiles. The total amount of income is divided into one-tenth slices. For the year ended June 1968 24 per cent of taxpayers were in the first dectile - that is, in the first one-tenth of the total income received. That is to say, one-quarter received one-tenth. They were people with incomes of less than $35 a week. Even within that level there were some who had dependants to support. They were responsible for only 4 per cent of the tax collected. At least there was some sort of case to begin to reform the tax system from the bottom. There ought to be a base deduction from everybody or what might be called subsistence or some minimum amount. It would be set as high as $1,500 or $1,600 and then the scale of progression would alter. 
The next dectile involved people with incomes ranging from $1,800 to $2,400 which was 14 per cent of the taxpayers or one-seventh. They paid 7 per cent of the tax collected. They had 9 per cent of the dependants. The next one-tenth - this is a narrower band - involved people in the $45 to $54 a week range or $2,400 to $2,800. That is another 14 per cent and they also paid 7 per cent of the total tax collected. The first 5 dectiles, or half of the total income of Australia, threequarters of the population received half of the income and paid one-third of the tax. At least there is some degree of income maldistribution in Australia. In my view it is part of the duty of the progressive income tax to redress that maldistribution. 
The remaining quarter of the population is found in the income levels above $70 a week. Therefore below this figure of $70 a week are three-quarters of the taxpayers and above it only one-quarter. The sort of adjustment that is made in this legislation will give two-thirds of the advantage of these taxation reductions to one-quarter of the population. If anybody suggests to me that that makes the tax structure more equitable then I would say that I have no understanding of the meaning of the word equitable'. I submit that the Government missed an opportunity here to begin to reform fundamentally the taxation structure of Australia. The way to begin is to remove the inequities that are inherent within the tax structure itself. 
Sometimes people say to me: 'What is your tax schedule?' lt is impossible to write a tax schedule in the abstract. The only thing that one can sensibly do is to point out the inadequacies and injustices in the system which obtains at present. To my mind the structure that we now have is riddled with inadequacies and injustices. The progressive mathematical scale in 1954 when the average weekly earnings which would have covered probably, as it does now. about three-quarters of the tax payers was thought to be a logical scale. If it was thought to have logic in 1954 when the average wage was $1,700 and the marginal rate was 17.6c, how can it have logic with the same scale of progression in 1968 or 1970 when the average wage has doubled and when the marginal rate has risen from 17.6c in the $1 to 30c? I submit that this is only the worst of patchwork alteration and I would hope that the Government will do as it says it will do and. having made this move, will now look at the total structure of taxation in Australia. Its first look has been a pretty fleeting, pretty furtive and pretty unjust one. 
Sitting suspended from  6.1  to  8  p.m. 
I would like to support my colleague, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  in his plea on behalf of the gold mining industry of Australia. As he indicated, this Bill renews for a further 3 years what is known as the gold mining industry assistance scheme. Since it came into operation in 1954 according to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  about $28m has been paid by way of subsidy. This Bill will continue at least until 1973 the assistance currently being given. As my colleague and the Treasurer have stated, representatives of the gold mining industry requested continuation of assistance at increased rates of subsidy. 
Whilst the Government carefully considered the proposals, finally it decided to continue the subsidy but not to increase it. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie is primarily concerned for his constituents in this matter. The sixteenth annual statement on the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act shows that for the year ended June 1970 subsidy totalling $1,859,000 was paid in Australia, and over 90 per cent of that amount was in respect of gold mines in the Kalgoorlie area. It is clear that the bulk of the gold mining industry remaining in Australia is in that area. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie indicated that last year production had fallen to about 600,000 ounces. Apparently production had declined considerably even between 1969 and 1970. The figures published in the Fortieth Annual Report of the Bank for International Settlements for the year ended 31st March 1970 show world gold production for 1969. This is the latest complete information available. Australia's production was 700,000 fine ounces. A table set out by the Bank shows that in 1940 Australia's gold production had been 1,644,000 fine ounces, so that production has been more than halved in that period of 30 years. 
The gold mining industry is of significance to Australia for 2 reasons, the first of which was stated by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, namely, that it is a supporter of employment, particularly in the Kalgoorlie area. Kalgoorlie would not be what it is had there been no gold mining industry. Some people have indicated the prospects of nickel to be more golden than they have turned out to be, at least if the Tasminex story is significant. I think my friend from Kalgoorlie was probably wise in suggesting that it is better to put your trust in gold than to be too certain about the likely impact of nickel in the Kalgoorlie area, whatever the glittering prospects of Poseidon might be. 
The industry's second contribution is as an earner of foreign exchange. By producing 700,000 fine ounces to be sold at S35 an ounce, the industry either earns or saves Australia between $24m and $25m annually on foreign exchange account. The great problem that faces the gold mining industry is that the price of its product is fixed but the costs of production are rising. The gold mining industry is not the only Australian industry so affected at present. That is basically the situation in the wool industry. Costs of production are rising but the people in the industry do not have much say in determining the price of their product when it is sold on an external market. In the case of gold, we can be fairly certain about its price. It has been fixed at S35 an ounce for over 30 years. It was fixed originally by the United States of America as the principal buyer of gold, and was subsequently written into International Monetary Fund agreements at that figure. Of course, a price of $35 an ounce in 1932 or 1933 was a very much different proposition from $35 an ounce in 1970, bearing in mind the cost of production in that period. 
My colleague is a little more optimistic than I about a likely alteration in the price of gold. I turn again to the annual report of the Bank for International Settlements, which covers the period from 1st April 1969 to 31st March 1970. This very sober document describes the situation in this way: 
As regards the development of prices in the free gold market, 1969 came in like a lion and went out like a lamb. The year opened with the London fixing price at about $42 an ounce of gold and the upward trend continued until the end of April, when the price stood at $43.6. 
The report goes on to refer to fluctuations, and then states: 
The free market price subsequently recovered from its $40.6 low in early June to nearly $42 around the middle of July. Then, towards the end of that month, the announcement of the Croup of Ten's agreement on the creation of SO Rs- 
They are special drawing rights - led to a renewed easing of quotations. By early August the price was at $41 an ounce and it stayed close to this level until the middle of October, when it began to fall sharply, reaching a low point of $34.75 around the middle of January 1970. 
The report goes on to note the factors that in essence have helped to determine the price of gold. 
The price goes up and down. The report continues: 
The pronounced fourth-quarter weakening of the gold market was not a consequence of current South African sales. 
According to the figures I have cited, South Africa is responsible for more than three-quarters of the annual production of gold in the world. Of an annual production of 40 million oz, South Africa produces over 30 million oz. The report goes on to say: 
On the contrary, the total amount of new gold marketed in the last 3 months of 1969 was less than 60 per cent of what it had been in either the second or third quarter. 
This is the significant part: 
It was rather that a number of factors - the ratification and prospective activation of the SDR scheme, the parity changes in France and Germany, the improvement in the situation of sterling and the continuing high level of Euro-dollar interest rates - combined to produce a marked reduction in net demand. 
I quote that only to show the variety of factors involved and these factors can, of course, operate in an upward or downward direction as far as the price of gold is concerned except that there is still the very large buyer, usually the United States, on the one hand, and the very large seller, South Africa, on the other. South Africa is, I suppose, the preponderant determinant of the market according to whether it chooses to sell gold for monetary purposes or industrial purposes according to whatever suits it best. The likelihood is that the SDR scheme will expand. 7 for one hope it does. To my mind it is a curious circumstance that in 1970 this scheme is very significantly dependent upon the mining of gold; however, that is a curious relationship which still exists. The SDR scheme appears to have begun reasonably successfully in this field and it can be automatically extended. Last year the expansion was about 3 per cent of the existing liquidity totals. If that trend is allowed to continue year by year the scheme will place less reliance on gold as part of the backing for monetary reserves. Other factors such as the parity of other currencies including the mark, the franc, sterling and the dollar all have significance in terms of the future price of gold. 
I am not as optimistic as my colleague the honourable member for Kalgoorlie is that the price of gold will rise. That forecast only brings to light the difficulties which face the industry in his electorate. I think that this is a problem about which he is rightly concerned. Surely to goodness an extra $lm, say, would be a very small price to pay to assist the industry. There are some difficulties as to the level at which this additional assistance could be given and they arise out of Australia's membership of the International Monetary Fund. The degree of assistance that can be given to a local industry is related to the nation's contractual obligations to the IMF. It is not possible, for instance, to pay a subsidy equal to the price of gold. There are certain barriers or limits within which a country can operate. It seems that this Government holds the view that it is now at the top of those barriers. 
I think that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie and I on a previous occasion suggested other methods of costing. Sometimes these sorts of arrangements can be got around. I think that we made a suggestion about sales tax and payroll tax and some other things. One of the conditions of assistance is that the mine applying for assistance must have at least 50 per cent of its total activity in gold mining. Whether that condition is rigid or not I do nol know. 1 join with the honourable member in asking the Government to re-examine this matter. The Opposition is grateful for the continuation of the subsidy but the suggestion that it ought to be increased is worthy of further consideration by the Government. I do not think the Government has given us sufficient information as to why it turned down the pleas which have been made in regard to gold mining. I would have been interested to have seen the submission of the gold mining interests on the one hand and on the other hand the official explanations given by the Government for refusing to grant extra assistance. It may be that the Minister is in a position to supply that information. But surely one should stop and ponder this sort of thing. Even accepting the pleas of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie and the difficulties which face the Government in terms of its arrangement with the IMF perhaps another kind of subsidy altogether could be paid for Kalgoorlie whether it be to the gold mining industry, the municipality or in some other way. To my mind this is the sort of thinking which has to be advanced in future particularly in a State such as Western Australia. 
I have had the good fortune, in company with the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, to travel to those areas in the north west of Western Australia where iron ore mining is taking place. There is no doubt that the existing financial arrangements that apply in the 3 levels of government - Commonwealth, State and local - are no longer adequate for the booming State of Western Australia because the additional responsibilities placed on the local governing authorities are really those of national development and not merely local development. I hope that some consideration will be given in the future to this sort of problem. I suppose that nobody would have thought 20 years ago that Port Hedland, Mount Tom Price and Mount Newman - which were only odd names in the geography books to most of us at that time - would have been boom areas and would bring thousands of people into the districts. Development is a good thing in itself, but the local governing arrangements are not adequate to meet the demand in terms of town construction, water supply and so on. I ask the Minister to give these matters his consideration and that in doing so he should not look at Kalgoorlie in the narrow confines of the industry. I am aware of the difficulties which face him, but 1 ask him to look at the matter in the broader national perspective and do something to save this very significant industry in that part of Australia. 
by leave - The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  and I, in whose electorates this structure is being built and many of the victims resided, would like to be personally associated with the expression of sympathy. 
I wish to raise two aspects of television in Australia. I refer to family and children's programmes on the one hand, and to the Australian content in television programmes on the other hand. Paragraph 478 of the most recent report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board states: 
By far the greatest proportion of programmes in family viewing time consisted of general entertainment from overseas. Although many of these programmes attract the young audience it is clear that in family viewing time there are unused opportunities for developing a wider range of Australian programmes of both an entertaining and informative character to interest children and adolescents. The Australian -culture, in its broadest sense, should rank much higher than it does in subject matter presented by television to developing young Australians. 
That observation by the Board raises this question: Whose responsibility is it to see that these sorts of things are done? It is my view that while the control of television is so much in the hands of commercial interests it is unlikely that there will be any improvement in children's programmes, at least at the commercial level, and it is unlikely that there will be any improvement in' the Australian content. By Australian content' I do not mean filling up time by replays of football and what are called sporting events. Some real attempt should be made to help creative drama. I do not know whether this will be done basically by the television stations, but I think there is some obligation on them to assist more in the promotion of opportunity for Australians to participate in programmes. I do not know whether this should be done jointly by the commercial television stations and by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This is the sort of dilemma which we presently face in Australia. 
I should like to quote from a rather curious document which is issued by the Commercial television people themselves and entitled 'Facts of Australian Content in Television Programme Schedules'. The 2 interpretations which have been placed, upon the same set of figures by 2 sources - the commercial television stations and by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board - defy analysis. According to the figures in the latest available report, last year Australian commercial television stations collected nearly $83m from advertisers and spent $67m, which represents a clear profit of over $15m. It is well said that when you give a television licence, in essence you are giving a licence to print money. When we look at an analysis of the programmes we see what has been done with this State-given right - the licence - when it has got into the hands of the commercial television stations. Paragraph 28 of this document rather glibly states: 
The submission of the Victorian Division of Actors' Equity, as released to the Press, contended that the drama requirements should be increased for the purpose of - 
The opinion of the Victorian Division of Actors' Equity is quoted -  encouraging Australian production and protecting the interests of Australian artists which we believe are the primary obligations and responsibilities of the Board and the TV operators.' The whole of its current campaign- 
That is, the campaign of Actors' Equity -  is based on this misconception. 
The television stations erect their own view against this misconception. They say: 
The primary responsibility of the television licensees is to the public and it is in their interest- 
That is, the public interest -  that programming is selected by stations. 
I submit that when one reads the analysis of programmes as contained in detail in the report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, one finds that it is an awful reflection upon the choice of the stations and upon the opinion which they have of public choice. 
Virtually the situation is that on many nights the public has to choose between a variety of rubbish. People do not watch programmes on television because they like them; they watch the programmes because they are the best that arc available out a lot of rubbish. The document entitled Facts of Australian Content in Television Programme Schedules', in paragraph 7, proudly points to this fact: 
Statistics prepared by Anderson Analysis covering 1969- viewing in the' capital cities estimated that: 
1.808,000 sets in 97 per cent of all homes with TV sets were turned on to commercial television for an average per set of 30 hours and 6 minutes each week. 
6,139,000 people, being 93 per cent of all people living in TV homes, watched commercial television programmes for an average per person of 18 hours and  12  minutes each week. 
I read an article recently in which a television set was described as a horror box. I do not go all the way with that view but, nevertheless, if ever there was a medium at the disposal of the community which is being misused it is the medium of television. I submit that to suggest, as the commercial television stations do, that the primary responsibility of television licensees is to the public and that it is in the public's interest, that programming is selected by the stations leaves a lot to be desired. 
On the question of Australian content in television programmes, I do not go all the way with the view of the actors. I do not say that they should necessarily call the tune, either. But I think that the way in which commercial television stations have interpreted what they regard as . their duty is wrong. I draw attention in particular to paragraph  460  of this report. In commenting on the actors' submission the Board said: 
It is clear that there is no simple solution. Strongly held views about the availability of physical and financial resources and the capacity of the artists concerned vary so widely that it is not easy to determine the best policy to be adopted immediately. Many of the proposals put to the Board about, for example, the production of film arid drama in Australia go beyond the Board's jurisdiction. 
I submit that if the Board believes it is beyond its jurisdiction something has to be done to make that jurisdiction somebody's responsibility, lt may be necessary, just as the Government has . created funds . for assistance to the film industry, for funds-'to be made available for television. I am 'not sure that some contribution should not be made by the commercial interests, in view of the large rake-off they are taking. There should also be created something- in the nature of a drama school where full facilities would be made available. The analysis shows that serious drama is almost nonexistent on Australian television at either the national or the commercial level. Read the statistics for yourself and you will see that what is called drama consists of westerns, crime and light comedy. 
To develop the sort of culture referred to in the section of the report dealing with children's programmes it is necessary to experiment for quite a while, even if the acting is bad and bad programmes are made for a while It will not improve until we go through this, process of trial and error. I commend for the consideration of the Government that, just as funds have been established for assistance to the film industry, assistance in the field of drama should be looked at separately in an experimental way. 
-I desire to address a ques  tion to the Treasurer. Has there been a reduction in the rate of flow of income tax refunds in respect of current income tax returns in the 3 months to the end of September 1970 as against the same 3 months of 1969? If so, what are the reasons for the reduced rate of flow? 
The break-up of the expenditure of over $ 1,000m on defence is presented in a somewhat different form in the 'Defence Report 1970' than that which appears in the Estimates. I draw the Committee's attention to the tables which appear on pages 59 and 60 of the 'Defence Report 1970'. Defence expenditure is divided into what are called major categories. The first category is described as 'A. Maintenance', the second category as 'B. Capital' and the third category, which is comparatively small, as 'C. Other'. It will be seen that $1,1 36m is the estimated expenditure for 1970-71, of which some $865m, or well over two-thirds, is provided for the category 'A. Maintenance', $2 14m for the category 'B. Capital' and $56m for the category 'C. Other*. 
I ask honourable members to look at the difference in the estimated expenditure on the capital composition for this year as against, say expenditure in 1967-68 and 1968-69. They will see that in 1967-68 capital expenditure was $405m and in 1968-69 it was $343m. In 1966-67 it was $342m. Of course, the reason for the much greater capital expenditure in those 3 years, 1966-67, 1967-68 and 1968-69, was that the figures for those years included expenditure on the FI 1 1 aircraft. 
And on Navy ships, but mainly on the Fill. All I am submitting is that that shows what a dreadful hole was made in Australia's defence balance by that ill-fated escapade with the Fill. At least it is gratifying to read on pages 9 and 10 of the 'Defence Report' what are called new proposals for evaluating future plans. It says: 
The regular review process will provide for analysis in greater depth of the Services' proposals. There will be up to  5 at  more years warning of impending decisions on major equipment proposals and long-range studies will be able to be commenced well in advance of having to make the decisions. 
In the next paragraph reference is made to it being 'increasingly unlikely that reliance can be placed solely on unsupported judgment'. I submit, with all respect, that the episode of the Fill was an instance of the Government making an unsupported judgment, and it involved this community in a hiatus in its defence planning for a considerable number of years. I commend the Defence Department on the amount of information which is contained in this 'Defence Report' and on the manner in which it is presented. But there, in major equipment and infrastructure projects announced after the last 12 months, a capital expenditure of about $408m is involved, which is equal to nearly 2 years capital expenditure on the basis of the figures that are shown for this year. All that this points to is the great deal of rigidity that exists in our defence expenditure. 
The other day the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spoke in this House about the plans for higher pay and allowances. 1 am not against higher pay, but there are 2 sorts of pay in the Army. There is the pay for what are called the service members and there are civilian salaries and wages. The civilian salaries and wages are about half of what is paid to Service members. I was interested to read the other day in 1 of these valuable documents that can be obtained from the Parliamentary Library service an article entitled 'Military Manpower Procurement in Australia' by  Mr Roy  Forward of the Department of Government at the University of Queensland. It was a paper that he delivered in August 1970. There he raised some matters that seem to me to be of fundamental concern, such as whether there are people in the Army who perhaps ought to be on the civilian side of defence activities, and vice versa. 
I agree with my colleague the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  that these are the sorts of matters that we do not get a chance to talk about at all in this House. With all respect to those who speak - some of them with great knowledge - about the types of aeroplanes and naval vessels, the reality is that well over two-thirds of what is spent on defence is not spent on the things that frighten the enemy at all. It is spent on pay and day to day maintenance. 1 submit that there ought to be a lot more fundamental examination within that field. In the very few minutes that are left to me I want to say something about the aircraft industry in Australia, lt is my belief that what has been called the fourth arm of defence is just as important as the other three. The fourth arm is what is described as Australia's industrial capacity. The aircraft industry, a large part of which happens to be centred in my electorate, has faced very serious problems in the last several years. The most serious of the problems is the failure to indicate years ahead what it is planned to do. 
At least the whole emphasis of the Defence Report this year is on the need for forward planning. I submit that a lot more forward planning has to be done in the aircraft industry in the next several years. In the document, 'Supply 1970', reference is made to Project N. The report states: 
Early in 1970 Cabinet approved expenditure of S3.2m on the design, development and prototype manufacture of a light utility transport aircraft, currently known as Project N. The approval covers the manufacture of two prototypes and a structural test airframe at GAF. 
The aircraft incorporates advanced short take-ofT and landing features. It will meet a series of roles for the Australian Forces, and with relatively minor design changes it could fill an otherwise vacant slot in the range of available light commercial aircraft.  ft is expected that the prototype will fly in mid 1971. I think that, both in aircraft construction and ship construction, in many respects the same sort of techniques are needed in civilian construction as are needed for military construction. That is the fourth arm. To my mind, the industrial potential in Australia has been very sadly neglected over recent years. Perhaps the one very salutary lesson that can still be learned from the Fill episode is that the first estimate of cost that is given is not likely even to approximate the final cost. When it is sometimes said that on present day assessments Australian industry cannot compete I think we should occasionally recall the difference between the initial cost of the Fill - which we have not yet received - and what the final cost turned out to be. I submit that if people had known what the final cost was going to be when the contract was let there would have been a much more sympathetic consideration of the prospects and potentialities of Australian industry to produce some of the things which we put greater faith in procuring overseas. 
Progress reported. 
I want to speak for a few minutes on this measure, which is a technical one. It provides for an alteration to the Seat of Government (Administration) Act, 1910-1959. I refer in particular to section 12 which reads at present: 
The Governor-General may make Ordinances having force of law in the Territory. 
The Bill before the House proposes to omit the words 'having force of law in the Territory' and to replace them by the words 'for the peace, order and good government of the Territory'. I must confess that, as a layman, I am somewhat intrigued that these latter words are apparently regarded as having wider amplitude than the existing words. I would have thought that, in this society of ours, which claims to believe in law and order, if something had the force of law it ought to operate in the direction of promoting peace, order and good government. But apparently that is not what the lawyers think. 
The reason for the proposed amendment is that, as we know, the Attorneys-General of the various States have been meeting and consulting about the reform of company law. The Company Law Advisory Committee reported to the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State AttorneysGeneral. This report, known as the Eggleston Committee's report, contains a number of solid documents. There are now four of them. The second of these interim reports was, oddly enough, the first one to be presented. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in introducing this measure referred to paragraph 6 of the second interim report. Paragraph 6 reads in part: 
If, however, the legislation were so worded that ti could be read as subject to a territorial limitation, so that a beneficial owner outside the jurisdiction of a State or Territory could claim that the obligation to give notice of substantial holding did not apply to him. such persons would be able to gain control of companies by stealth in circumstances in which residents could not. 
As we know, there are a number of companies in Australia that register in Canberra because they believe that there are certain advantages attached to registration in Canberra rather than to registration in, say, Melbourne or Sydney or one of the other places in Australia where company registration may take place. It seems as though in some respects - I made reference to this fact some time ago in a question that I asked - that the shelter of registration in Canberra can be used even though a company that is registered in Canberra actually carries out its main activities in Melbourne or Sydney. 
I believe that, in many respects, not sufficient scrutiny is placed upon the operations of these companies. Although they are registered in Canberra, their operations take place somewhere else and they are well beyond the scrutiny of the registration system in Canberra. Now, I believe that this sort of thing can lead to considerable difficulties in the future. It is on this rather peculiar measure that we have one of the rare opportunities to talk in this House about laws that ultimately are passed by States but are passed by the States by reason of the Commonwealth making sensible arrangements for the Attorneys-General and others to get together. I believe that we ought to be able to debate in this House the full substance of the recommendations of the Eggleston Committee. I do not intend to do that tonight. 
I merely point out this rather curious gap in our structures, that is, that we can have a pattern of uniform legislation - and what it means is that each of the States passes similar legislation in a broad field; in this case, companies - but even though there are ordinances which apply as far as Canberra is concerned and those ordinances are just as substantia] in many cases as an Act of Parliament would be at the State level, no opportunity is given to this Parliament to discuss the subject mutter of those ordinances. I believe in a sense that what we are talking about here, primarily the seat of Government, is the sort of technicality by which we can discuss this matter. 
What we are aiming to do is to close a gap in the legislation. I am thankful that the gap is being closed in a field that really is of national significance. I believe that, because it is of such national significance, more adequate opportunities should be available to debate in this House the merits of the proposal. After all, what can be more significant for the economic life of a community than the law that relates to corporations or to companies. Yet, basically, while we collect taxes from the companies at this level we virtually have no participation in the legislation under which those companies operate. Even though some of them do register in Canberra, we have no Commonwealth corporation law. What we have is a series of ordinances for which this Parliament is responsible and which ultimately this Parliament may disallow but which rarely are debated in substance in this House. 1 hope that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  may take note df this little gripe that I am making because I think that it is of some significance. 
In this field of insurance- that is, insurance other than the life field and in particular insurance relating to motor car activities - a need exists for national legislation. The Commonwealth has wide enough powers under its insurance powers as «et down in the Commonwealth Constitution. I believe that the time is now when we should be passing legislation to exercise control in this field in the same way as the Commonwealth has control through its Insurance Commission or who, at least, can scrutinise the activities anywhere in Australia of anything that calls itself a life assurance company. But the Commonwealth cannot do this at the moment in that field that is known as general insurance. 
I do not know whether honourable members know but, in aggregate, there is as much money provided by the Australian public for premiums in the general field ot insurance each year - that is insurance other than life, such as fire, accident, motor car, marine, underwriting and so on - as is spent annually on defence by Australia. The aggregate premiums paid for insurance in other than the life field are $ 1,000m in value. At the moment, they are subject to very, very haphazard regulatory control. 
I would hope that this very important gap is closed soon because enough examples are available of the haphazardness in insurance operations which now amount to scandals. I believe that the time is right for comprehensive insurance in this field. I do not think that the legislation needs to be very complicated either. The Commonwealth should set up a mechanism similar to that of the Insurance Commission. Some similar sort of scrutiny should be established in insurance fields other than life insurance. 1 at least support this measure. But, as a layman, as I have said, I am  a  little bit intrigued by the words which are acceptable apparently in one sense but are noi wide enough in another. I do not profess as a non-lawyer to know how the lawyers arrive at these very fine distinctions. But the Opposition does support the measure and the sorts of things that are done to close up deficiencies in takeovers and nominee shareholdings. I think that they need to be uniform: they need to be strengthened; and this legislation at least will assist as far as companies registered in Canberra are concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
These measures might be described as the overhang, the vestiges, of what took place in this House on 12th June 1970 and subsequently in the Senate when there was an attempt to validate, by Commonwealth power, what had been declared unconstitutional by the High Court of Australia. When we were discussing receipts duties legislation on 12th June, on behalf of the Opposition I moved: 
That all the words after 'that' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading as it is of opinion that the Bill provides a cumbersome and regressive means of compensating the Stales for the revenue they lost through their Receipts Duty Acts liming been declared unconstitutional'. 
Many people took into account the invalidity of the legislation which operated from November 1969 to 30th September 1970, and relied on the validity of the High Court's decision, lt intrigues me that a government which claims to subscribe to law and order should, when it suits it, be prepared to use any sort of subterfuge to validate what the supreme court in our constitutional system - the High Court - says is invalid. People who have not paid the duty that they would have paid in terms of invalid State legislation from November 1969 to 30th September 1970 are now to be compelled, under this vestigia! arrangement, so to do. The Opposition did not support the earlier legislation, which was frustrated in the Senate. 1 do not intend to talk about the powers of the Senate at this stage. We claimed that it would have been a much tidier arrangement for the Commonwealth to have recognised the plight of the States. The only reason the States had to resort to this regressive form of taxation was that there was not sufficient reimbursement of revenue from the Commonwealth to meet their needs. 
Our suggestion was thai instead of having this rather cumbersome form of taxation imposed differently in different States on different subject matters an amount equivalent to what would be collected in receipts duties should be added by the Commonwealth to the formula of reimbursements to the Stales. It is rather surprising how equivocal the Government has been about what is realised from receipts duty. What will happen is that for the next 4 or 5 years from 1st October 1970 receipts duty imposts will no longer have impact in Australia and what would have been collected by this means - and apparently the sum still has to be worked out and indicated separately for the various States - will now be added to the reimbursement formula. This simply shows how fragile are these arrangements because as recently as June 1970 at a meeting of State Premiers a formula was determined. We have legislation before the House to adopt that formula, but even now that formula has been thrown into discard by adding to it sums, as yet undetermined for each particular State, which will form part of the base of the reimbursement system for the next several years. 
As I indicated, the Opposition proposed that what the Government now intends doing for the next 4 to 5 years should have been done in June. All I can say is that what the Government said was wrong in June 1970 it now admits as being right for the next 4 to 5 years. However, we suggest that the Government should not be vindictive, lt seems to me that in many respects it is being vindictive towards those people who relied on the interpretation of the High Court. 1 should be interested to hear from some of the legal gentlemen who are on the Government side their justification for this proposal. The High Court rules, by a majority decision, that what had been regarded as a receipts duty tax was no such thing but that it was an excise that it was competent for only the Commonwealth to impose. Some people in Victoria and in the other States paid the tax. They were exhorted to do so by the Victorian Premier. According to a Press clipping that I. have in my possession, on the same day as the High Court decision was announced there was a plea from the Premier of Victoria that even though the tax was invalid people should continue to pay it. If the Government believes in law anil order, surely once a law has been ruled to be invalid there is no obligation on people to obey it and they are within their constitutional rights in not paying the tax. Those people who accepted the validity of the High Court's decision and did not pay the lax will now be forced to pay the amount that the invalid law required them to pay. 
I submit that this is ali that remains: These measures are the vestiges of the scheme that was introduced here two or three months ago. What kind of procedures have since persuaded the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and others to concede now what we said ought to have been conceded in June? Nevertheless, they still want their pound of flesh even though, contrary to Shakespeare's example, the pound of flesh is being asked for illegally. Basically, this is what the legislation does. It compels those who relied upon the decision of the court to pay the duties which the State, under an invalid law, would have imposed upon them. I will be interested to hear my friends opposite, who when it suits them talk about law and order, justify this kind of arrangement. 
 I know that the honourable member for Curtin will, but it remains to be seen whether he will be convincing, or any more convincing this time than on previous occasions. I think that he has a very difficult wicket on which to bat. 1 know that there are some supreme batsmen on his side, and I am not sure whether the fact that they are putting him in first wicket down is a tribute to him or whether they think it does not matter. Nevertheless, I will be interested to hear his observations. 
I must confess that when the Bill was introduced and the memorandum of explanation was circulated I got short circuited on to the wrong track because as well as the present memorandum being circulated, an old one was circulated at the same time. T got bogged down in consideration of the provisions in clause 88 of the Bill. That clause has now been omitted from the Bill and included as a separate measure. But in the old Bill clause SS referred to what was called a transitional period. Of course, the transitional period has now expired because the Bill dealt with the period from November 1969 to either 30th September or 1st October of this year - I am not quite sure what the closing off point is. In any event, that period has expired. But I must confess that 1 was a little intrigued when 1 considered the way in which the Commonwealth seems to be coming to the rescue of the States in this period, which is now only historical, and some of the implications that seem to have arisen out of that now famous case known as Worthing's case. I refer to a rather interesting article written by  Mr Robert  Sorby in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 24th July 1970. He said: 
Section 52 may be as celebrated as section 92. 
He went on to say: 
Unlike the receipts tax on the sale of goods, the High Court has not, in an oblique fashion, invalidated the tax. 
He was referring  to the  stamp tax duty. He continued: 
What it has done - 
And this is something on which the States still rely, to a great extent. After all, every one of us draws cheques, and I am afraid that with the rate at which inflation is running  in  this country at the present time, we are drawing cheques much more frequently now than previously. But every time we draw a cheque we pay tribute to the State in the form of stamp duty. This matter is much more significant to the States than are  the  matters now in jeopardy.  Mr Sorby  said: 
What it has done is raise the possibility that the tax might be avoided under certain conditions. 
He raises the rather intriguing proposition that the colonnades of the General Post Office in Sydney or Melbourne might be used for the conduct of all sorts of transactions. Apparently, because the transactions are conducted on Commonwealth property the stamp duty which otherwise would be payable could be avoided. This seems to me to be a much more real difficulty for the States in the future than is the question of whether or not they will get under this legislation some revenue which they ought to have received several months ago. Probably the Treasurer is like I am - a little bit intrigued by the differences which lawyers place upon words which other people seem to think are plain English. I raised a question in the House last night. I had difficulty in finding the difference between the words 'having the force of law, and the words 'for the peace, order and good government in the Territory. Apparently, lawyers see a lot of difference in those words. As I understand Worthing's case, a lot seems to be made of the point whether transactions take place on Commonwealth property. Later on in this article the learned writer  -  T presume he is a learned writer - said: 
The Commonwealth has to try and assimilate State law into Commonwealth law so that it will apply to activities in Commonwealth places. 
To do this with receipts taxes - 
That is what we are considering at the moment -  for example, which are lower in Queensland, would mean the possibility of contravening section 51 (ii) of the Constitution. 
Again, I do not know whether this Bill contravenes section 51 (ii) of the Constitution. According to the explanation of the 
Treasurer, the Bill allows for a lower rate of receipts duty in Queensland than in the other States. The general rule seemed to be that in some States the rates were equivalent to S I per $1,000 of the transaction and in Queensland they were equivalent to about 20c per SI. 000 of the transaction. 1 do not know whether that sort of a clause in this legislation could be subject to further scrutiny. But I think it points to the need for a serious examination to be made of this matter. I do not know whether the examination should take place on the basis of a constitutional convention, which is very difficult to secure once the Constitution has been formed. But, nevertheless, it ought to be recognised that there are difficulties in defining finance, on the one hand, and function, on the other hand. 
There is no doubt in my mind that when it comes to functions, the States have many important functions to carry out at the moment. This applies to both State governments and local government authorities, and we will be able to put further arguments on this matter next week. But there is no doubt that when it comes to functions, there is a great gap between the functions which the States have to perform and the financial resources at their disposal to carry out the functions. Surely this is what is involved in this legislation. I think that belatedly the Commonwealth has recognised that this device for the imposition of receipt duty was a much more messy process than seems to be the case previously. This evening I was speaking to my colleague, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  He said that if you took an orange as an example, receipts duty would have been applied 6 times between the place where the orange was grown on the tree and the place where it was finally sold to me as the consumer. I think it was recognition of that kind of thing which made the Commonwealth Government realise that it would be better to compensate the States for the revenue which they would have received from this sort of taxation than to continue to apply the tax. 
The other point is that to me it is still rather vague as to what the future intention is. I draw some distinction between what appears in the Bill and what was said by the Prime Minister on 8th October last. This Bill was introduced after 8th October. This is a statement made by the Prime 
Minister on receipts duties, lt was thi Prime Minister's official statement No. 100 for 1970. Has he issued 100 statements this year? It seems incredible. 
This one does not inform me very well. That is why I refer to it. It reads: 
Discussions thi.; afternoon centred upon the arrangements to be applied regarding receipts tax during the 4 years after 1970-71. lt was agreed the total amount which would have been collected by each state on transactions in 1970-71 would be accepted as the base figure for collections in future years for that State. 
When somebody asked the Treasurer the other day whether in aggregate the sum was $80m or $50m he was a little acidic about what the sum really was. He disputed the figure given but I am afraid he did not say what the figure really was. I would hope that sometime during the course of this debate we might have what we could call a reasonable assessment of the sum. One of the curious features about this matter is that everybody thought the receipts duty legislation would form part of the Budget. I went through every item of anticipated' receipts in the Budget and nowhere is there any mention of the anticipated yield from the application of the receipts duties legislation. This was a bit of a mystery to me. I would like to know what sum the Commonwealth believes it will collect as a result of this legislation, which validates what had formerly been invalid. How much does the Government expect to collect on behalf of the States under this legislation, which has application only for the period November 1969 to the end of September 1970? How much does it imagine will come from it? Surely one is entitled to ask this when financial legislation such as this is before the House. Surely one could have some idea of the likely yield from the uncollected part of the tax. The Prime Minister's statement continued: 
It was also accepted that the figure arrived at for each State- 
Apparently the Treasurer has not arrived at it yet -  as a base, would be escalated- 
What 'escalated' means in this context I do not quite know -  in the remaining four years of the present financial assistance arrangements in accordance with the formula applied to tax reimbursement grants at the June Premiers' Conference. 
The Stales agreed to meet together to seek some common field within the area covered by the receipts duty in which they could commonly impose a tax, such taxation revenue to be an offset against the Commonwealth liability for payment to the States. 
It would seem, contrary to what was suggested in a speech a week or two later, to suggest that this tax can still be revived on conditions that the States are yet to work out. The statement continued:  lt was agreed that if a common field of taxation could not be discovered the States would try to work out, each one, a field in which tax could be imposed. 
Surely this implies a great degree of uncertainty about the future. The statement continues: 
These arrangements were made subject to the proviso on the part of the Commonwealth that they depended on the conditions governing the offers of the Commonwealth made at the June Premiers' Conference. 
Liability for receipts duty of all kinds, as at present levied, ceased on transactions after 30th September. 
Whilst they ceased after 30th September, I think the interesting question to some people is whether there is any possibility of their being revived within the next 4 years. I would like to have an explanation about that. The other feature that is still of somewhat intriguing significance is what the Premier of Victoria intends to do about payroll tax. We had a statement in this House on 30th September by the Prime Minister, following a speech which was made in the Victorian Parliament by the Victorian Premier. The Prime Minister concluded by saying: 
If Victoria or any other State or States were not to pay payroll tax there would thus be a direct and significant effect on the Commonwealth budget. 
What will be the effect on the Commonwealth budget - this is what I asked a few minutes ago - of the amount that will be collected as a result of the measures now before us? The Prime Minister seemed to be very worried about what would happen to the budget if the Government did not get the payroll tax but he does not seem to be concerned at all about what might happen to the budget if he collects another $50m or $60m as a result of validating a formerly invalid receipts tax. He continued: 
The Government is therefore unable to accept the position taken by the Victorian Government as stated in  Sir Henry  Bolte's Budget Speech.' My Government will, therefore, consider what course of action it should take in relation to  Sir Henry  Bolte's statement in order to see that the Commonwealth Budget is not impaired. 
Surely it is relevant to the legislation now before us to know what the Government intends to do about  Sir Henry  Bolte's pronunciamento. I read after the House adjourned last night the very interesting 37th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission tabled yesterday. It seems to be implied there that one of the conditions for the agreement to the formula for reimbursement, which was to apply from June but which has now been breached to some extent by this undisclosed amount of receipts duty, was that the States agreed still to pay the payroll tax. But  Sir Henry  Bolte, a very individualist sort of character to say the least, says he does not feel he is bound by that. 1 do not know what the figure is but I would think offhand that it would be $8m or $9m from Victoria in respect of payroll, tax on Government undertakings at local or semi-government level. I take it that is what he will not pay. This would make some difference to the Budget. These are all the unexplained ends. 
The Opposition opposes this measure because it believes it is a rather vindictive act at this stage. Having been defeated in the courts, the States said to the Commonwealth: 'You get around the High Court decision by passing legislation of  this kind!"  The Government attempted to do so in June. It was frustrated in another place and now it seeks to change horses in midstream so far as the next 4 or 5 years are concerned but still wants to backdate the legislation. The Government has not given any indication of the magnitude of what it expected to collect but when it suited the Prime Minister he made a great song about the effect on the budget if he did not collect the payroll tax. In the face of all these unexplained ends the Opposition has no course other than to oppose the measures before us. 
I do not intend to keep the House very long, but I make some protest at the bringing on of legislature like this at this time. We are to spend $10m in this project, and I think it is perfunctory to expect it to be disposed of in less than half an hour as it will be. One of the reasons I do not intend to take the time that I might otherwise take is that one or two of my colleagues want to speak on the motion for the adjournment. Adequate time has not been allowed to them to speak this week and I hope that the Government does not intend to deny them that right this evening. The Bill before us increases Australia's contribution to the Asian Development Bank. According to the information supplied by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  this Bank has an authorised capital of about $US 1,000m, approximately half of which has been paid up. Australia's present contribution is $US85m. It is proposed that a further $US 10m be contributed by Australia. The Opposition supports this measure because we believe that only by systematic economic development will some of- the great disparities that exist in the world be removed. The part of the world in which we are situated - Asia - is the area where the disparities are greatest. 
I commend to the House the publication Partners in Development' to which I have referred before. It is a study commissioned by the World Bank. The  chairman  of the Commission was  Mr Lester  Pearson, a former Prime Minister of Canada. This document was produced towards the end of last year. It states at page 11: 
We live at a time when the ability to transform the world is only limited by faintness of heart or narrowness of vision. 
I submit that we still seem to show both faintness of heart and narrowness of vision in dealing with our problems. In order to illustrate the difference that exists between the achievement of the ideal I have quoted and the realities I shall now quote from the most recent report of the World Bank, which was circulated to honourable members only a few days ago. I turn to the section of the report which deals with external debt of the developing countries. Reference is made to the very real difficulties that face this part of the world. At page 50 the report states: 
Over the past decade the rate of growth of both debt outstanding and debt service payments has been about twice the rate of growth of export earnings of the developing countries, and almost three times that of their combined gross domestic product. 
The report goes on at page 53: 
Moreover, the analysis- 
That is a reference to an analysis conducted by the Bank -  provides a measure of the magnitude of the international effort which would be needed simply to maintain the present level of net resource transfer to the developing countries, much less to increase it as their trade and investment requirements grow over the next decade. In addition, it suggests that the debt service problems facing a number of developing countries are likely to grow more difficult during the next few years if recent trends in capital flows, aid policies and development performance remain unchanged. 
The measure before us will at least provide additional capital assistance to the parts of the world that so much need it. The Treasurer was good enough to supply me with a copy of the latest annual report of me Asian Development Bank, lt contains plenty of examples of the good work that the Bank is doing. The Bank was established only in 1966. It has not been in operation for very long but nevertheless in its annual report for 1.969 it stated: 
The Bank's record of performance in the first  3  years clearly reflects its mounting impact on the region. There is a growing appreciation of the fact that the Bank has a substantial and distinctive role to fulfil in the economic development of Asia. The needs, the problems, the objectives - and above all the hopes- of the Asian region may not differ materially in the long term from those elsewhere: but at any given time, the techniques and processes needed may be quite  different  from those fashioned for use in other areas.  Details of some of the projects that have been undertaken by the Bank are contained in the report. I am interested to see recorded in the report the fact that the Bank held its annual meeting in Australia last year and that coincidental with that meeting was a seminar on agricultural research held in Sydney. I am glad to see from the speech of the Treasurer that it is proposed, in addition to capital subscriptions I take it, that Australia should take part in some of the special projects that will be sponsored by the Asian Development Bank in the course of the next couple of years. The Treasurer lists some of the categories in which that assistance will be given. He referred to an agricultural special fund, a multi-purpose special fund, a technical assistance special fund and so on. 
I am convinced by what I have had the opportunity to see of co-operation and aid between Australia and some other parts of the world that one of the big problems that still faces us is in the techniques of aid administration. 1 have said this in the House before. Indeed, I said it a week or so ago when  spoke during the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference. I made the point that one of the difficulties we face is the fact that while so many needs exist in various parts of the world, the ability to fulfil those needs exists somewhere else. Those who have the needs are not always brought into proper contact with those who may have the ability to fulfil those needs. These are some of the things which some of the special assistance agencies attached to bodies such as the Asian Development Bank could help to promote. I am a little disappointed that the Treasurer still seems to find virtue in the fact that much of the assistance that Australia gives will return a benefit to us because of the sort of trade that we will supply. He seems to think that because we are supplying aid to these countries it is likely that they will use Australian equipment. I hope that may be the case but I hope also that it is not necessarily implied that it should be the case. I believe in these sort of transactions we should move a little more towards multi-lateral arrangements rather than bi-lateral arrangements. 
The Opposition commends the Bill. I am sorry that a greater opportunity is not given to honourable members to debate these matters because I think they are just as fundamental to Australia's welfare as are questions such as defence. I think that these matters ought to be given much more time for debate than has been given on this occasion. 

 - Mr Speaker, it is odd how Bills which appropriate about one-fifth or onesixth of the total appropriation of the Commonwealth are thought to be of such little importance that they are brought on for debate in this House at half-past 10 at night. I am leading on behalf of the Opposition, and again I must raise some protest about this practice because, after all, the measures which we are debating set the pattern in Australia for the next 5 years - at least if this Government continues in office - for the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. Surely this is one of the most sigificant problems that face us at the present time, and nobody can suggest other than that there is dissatisfaction about the existing arrangements. 
We have these 4 measures before us. The first really arranges the new formula. The second measure does something to take part of the interest burden from the States and put it onto the shoulders of the Commonwealth. The third measure does a curious piece of bookkeeping, and what formerly was lent to the States will now be given to the States. The final measure contains the results of the proceedings of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, which in this instance makes special grants to the States of Tasmania and South Australia. All of these measures are being debated simultaneously, but I simply point out tha significance of the matters that are before us. 
In order perhaps to get some perspective in relation to this matter, I turn to details which can be found in all their clarity in the statement on national income and expenditure for 1969-70, which is the latest issue of the White Paper on national statistics. Tables 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and IS show the overall position of public authority expenditure in Australia - that is expenditure by the Commonwealth, the States and local government authorities. In aggregate, the total of taxation levied at these 3 levels in Australia is in excess of $8,000m. Of course, the principal collector of taxation is the Commonwealth. It will be seen that so far as the last available complete year is concerned, Commonwealth taxation aggregated $6,334m and taxation imposed by the States and local authorities aggregated $1,3 29m. These figures refer to the previous year, and with the normal rise in expenditure, total expenditure this year will exceed $8,000m. 
We get into a lot of arguments in our system about the virtues of direct versus indirect taxation. Really, the only substantial collector of direct taxation in Australia is the Commonwealth because at the moment it has a monopoly in collecting taxation on individual incomes and on companies. That means that if the States and local authorities are to raise revenue and if they are to expand their revenue, they must resort to the imposition of indirect taxes of one kind and another, and what a curious assortment of indirect taxes the States and local authorities levy can be seen from the statistics which are contained in the annual report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It sets out the various areas in which the States collect taxes. Indirect taxes are levied on such a diverse range of items as motor vehicles, lotteries and, in the case of New South Wales, poker machines. The States and local authorities resort to the imposition of stamp duties of one kind and another. But all of these taxes are levied really on the consumption of particular articles rather than on the individual's ability to pay. As commonly described, these taxes are regarded as being regressive in their incidence. 
If the States and local authorities - and I want to talk in some detail about  local  authorities - want to increase their revenue they can do so broadly in 4 ways. They can get additional moneys from the Commonwealth. The matters that are now tinder contemplation are a reappraisal of the previous formula for the payment of moneys by the Commonwealth to the States. The States and local authorities can levy their own taxation, and I have indicated the rather dubious avenues to which they have to resort. They can borrow from the public, but again how much they are able to borrow from the public is conditioned by what is called the gentleman's agreement which is entered into at the Australian Loan Council. The Commonwealth does the borrowing on the public market on behalf of itself and the States, but local authorities and semi-governmental authorities have to go onto the public market themselves or resort to other sources of finance, and they are largely in the hands of the collective monetary policy of the Commonwealth. 
The other way in which the States and local authorities can increase their revenue is to charge for public utility services, such as electricity, gas and water supply, more than the cost of provision of those services. The surplus goes into a capital fund to expand the public utility capital resources. This is the position in which the States and local authorities find themselves. The Minister for Immigration and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  in the course of his speech, said: 
. the Commonwealth Government must continue to look to State governments to assess the needs of their local authorities in the light of the expenditure responsibilities of those authorities and the revenue resources available to them. 
As I interpret that, the Minister - and I presume that he was speaking on behalf of the Government - believes that there ought not to be any separate allocation of funds from the Commonwealth to local and semi-governmental authorities; that that ought to be siphoned directly at the level of the State government. Perhaps I might contrast that with the views that have been expressed by the Leader of my Party  (Mr Whitlam).  I refer to an address which he gave to the University of Melbourne Political Science Society at Warburton in Victoria on Sunday morning, 16th August 1970. The Leader of the Opposition spoke at about the same time as the Minister delivered this speech. The Leader of the Opposition's talk was entitled: 'Government and Cities'. He said: 
Under the existing set up, the States create authorities to provide the services basic to every modern civilised community and then leave them to fend for themselves. 
I suggest that this is the reality of the situation. 1 simply contrast the view of what the reality is with the attitude which seems to be taken by the Commonwealth Government that a plea by local or semigovernment authorities for additional resources has to come via a State rather than that there should be direct subvention of these bodies. 1 do not think that what the situation in this field is always is appreciated. I have been interested this evening to listen to the debate that has just finished, it concerned water. The suggestion was that water, its conservation and reticulation, was fundamental to the future development of Australia. What is true of water is, I think, true with equal force about such things as transport, power generation and so on. 1 have taken out some figures. They are available in the latest bulletin dealing with State, Territory and local government authority finance during 1966-67, which was published in December 1969 and is the latest complete document available. The bulletin shows the debt of semigovernment and local government authorities as outstanding at 30th June 1967. That is 3 years ago. 
Local government indebtedness is rising annually by at least Si 00m. Semigovernment indebtedness is set out also. Now, semi-government includes the bulk of power distribution in Australia. If Australia's economic growth is to be encompassed, it is suggested that we ought to double the production of electricity every 8 years. This has to be done via these semi-government authorities. At 30th June 1967 the total indebtedness of local government was $l,279m. The total indebtedness of semi-governmental authorities - this mainly includes electricity, water systems and so on - was almost 4 times that amount - that is $4,879m - or an aggregate indebtedness of $6, 100m. This contrasts with the total indebtedness of the States of $8,31 6m at 30th June 1967. I think that everybody acknowledges the rather large indebtedness of the States. But I do not think that everybody realises that the total indebtedness of local authorities and local governmental authorities, for which there is no direct Commonwealth subvention, was at that date three-quarters of what was owed by the States. In aggregate the total indebtedness of local and semi-government authorities has risen by over $400m annually. This points to the difficulty that we face in our federal system at the moment. There is a lot of talk about what we call co-operative federalism. I suggest that, if our federal system is not only to co-operate but also to continue to be cohesive - that is, to survive, if honourable members like - a much more fundamental reappraisal of the total responsibilities outside the Commonwealth sphere needs to be made. 
The real point at which we become bogged down in our system is that we have tended to think of the matter entirely as a financial problem. I believe that it is not a financial problem; it is a problem of resources and the proper allocation of resources. Because of the dominance of the financial powers of the Commonwealth in the system, we are ignoring the very real situation that faces us. I have quoted this example before; I quote it again. I notice that it was taken up to a degree in the statement which the Premiers presented to the Federal conferences held in February and March of this year. The example that I have here was published in the Victorian Hansard of 1.0th March 1970. 
I refer honourable members to the actual capital expenditure for 1969-70. I take as examples the Post Office and civil aviation. These are 2 heads of Commonwealth expenditure. The total capital expenditure of the Post Office for 1969-70 was $336m. The expenditure for civil aviation for the same period was S64m. The aggregate for those heads was 400m. In 1965-66- that is, 5 years before - the aggregate expenditure of those 2 heads was $282m. 1 take now, if I may, 2 examples of State capital expenditure - education and public health. In 1965-66 the aggregate expenditure for capital purposes on education and public health was $222m. The projected expenditure for 1969-70 was $2 10m on education and $85m on public health. I ask in all seriousness, as I have asked before: What logic is it that says that it is a proper allocation of capital resources to spend S3 3 6m on the Post Office and 5210m on education or to allocate $64m to civil aviation and $85m to public health? Priorities are determined at the moment by the Commonwealth taking the first bite and then grandly saying to the States: 'You can have what is left over'. It is an easy enough assumption but it bogs down in two rather difficult fields. It bogs down in different situations - at the level of local governing authorities as against the States. 
All honourable members of the Country Party represent in some way or another local governing authorities. If a local governing authority wants to borrow, let us say, $lm, it cannot borrow this sum at the best available terms, that is, those that are given for Commonwealth loans. It has either to go to a bank which will charge 1 per cent higher than the Commonwealth rate or to an insurance company which will charge even more, or to some other source. Why should this be so? Where do the majority of people live in the Australian community? 1 ask this with all respect to my friends from the Country Party. The majority of people live in the 2 cities of Melbourne and Sydney. 
Well, it is a pity but if it is a pity it is a pity that is increasing in degree. As we are looking into the 1970s, is anybody optimistic enough to say that by 1980 the disparity in population between the city and the country will be less rather than greater? In my view it is inevitable, having regard to the way that things are going at the moment, that there will be proportionately more people in Melbourne and Sydney by 1980 than is the case in 1970. My friend from Lilley has a great penchant for trying to take the sins off the shoulders of the Government by asking what the Opposition would do. I repeat to him today that inflation is rampant in this country at the moment and that it is due to the deficiencies of the Government's policies, not due to the policies that my Party has not had an opportunity to put into operation. His approach this afternoon was rather curious. Whatever is being suffered by the farmers at the moment is not due to a 35-hour working week. A 35-hour working week cannot be introduced except by a deliberate decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as in the fixing of wages. 
What sins are afflicting honourable members opposite at the moment are their responsibilities, and they should not try to turn the argument away by asking what we would do if we were in power. Nothing can be changed as a result of a Senate election anyway. Whatever happens in the forthcoming Senate election, those people elected will not take their seats until 1st July 1971, and the Government will be writing another Budget by that time. But the deficiencies more than anywhere else are in the disparity in the allocation of the resources that are available to the Commonwealth and what has to be sifted through not only to the States but to the local authorities. 
I repeat that the Government has changed the formula for the allocation of resources to the States. Even while the formula for the next 5 years was being written it was changed by the Prime Minister by thinking off the top of his head about the receipts duty. Even since this legislation we are now contemplating was introduced he added another sum to the base to be used from now on. But does anybody think that that sweeps everything under the rug as far as future proper relations between the Commonwealth and the States are concerned? I have cited figures - I ask honourable members to consider them - that show the magnitude of the debt problem that is afflicting the local authorities and the semi-governmental authorities. To point out again the difference in attitude between the Commonwealth and States I refer to statistics in the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission for 1970. I commend this document to everybody. The railways of Australia, with one exception, are conducted by the States. According to the Commonwealth Grants Commission, for 1968-69 railways had a net adverse impact on State finances of $108m. That is, taking into account all the costs that had to be borne by the railways there was a deficiency between their receipts and expenditure of $108m. The same sort of thing applies to metropolitan transport, where there was an adverse effect on State finances of $18m. Metropolitan water and sewerage services also have an adverse effect. An aggregate burden of over $60m is placed upon the budgets of the States for country water supplies. 
I turn to the Commonwealth and civil aviation. I suggest that there are more people who have to use railways and water and sewerage services than who use airways, yet according to the information that was put into Hansard by my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr 
Charles Jones), civil aviation has an adverse effect of about $50m on the Commonwealth Budget. Yet honourable members are prepared to argue on behalf of Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia that a certain charge that was being imposed on them should not be increased. 1 will not argue about the merits of that. All I am suggesting is that it is easier for the Commonwealth to absorb this sort of loss than it is for the States. But would anyone like to allot a priority and say whether it would be more within the capacity of the States to absorb a loss on the railways than it would be within the capacity of the Commonwealth to absorb a loss on civil aviation? Or if we like to go further down the line when we are talking about inflation, we load on to every user of electricity in Victoria - 1 presume this is similar in other States - a higher charge because we are extracting from today's users the ability to increase tomorrow's capital resources in the electricity field. That adds to today's costs. There can be a lot of argument about how much should be loaded on and so on, but all I am saying at the moment is that the only level of government that has the luxury of choice in this matter is the Commonwealth. The States and, to even a lesser degree, the local and semi-government authorities have no choice in this matter. How long this sort of thing can go on, I do not know. 
I read a couple of months ago a special supplement to the 'Australian Financial Review' on urban renewal or a similar theme. The article stated that transport and water were part of the key to the future. Whatever may be the minor allocation of grants by the Commonwealth to the States, basically the provision of all transport other than airways and the provision of all water undertakings other than the Snowy Mountains scheme are the responsibility of the States and local authorities. As was pointed out in the article by the Leader of the Opposition, which I have already quoted, the aggregate debt of local government and semi-governmental authorities has risen astronomically. The way it is going, in another 10 years it will overtake the capital indebtedness of the States. But the appalling thing is that the terms on which local government authorities and semigovernmental authorities borrow are worse than those available to any other public borrower in the Commonwealth. To some extent the Bill before us makes for an improvement. But when we look at the aggregate effect, to a great extent it is a bookkeeping problem. I think we get bamboozled with bookkeeping problems. 
I again refer to what the honourable member for Lilley said this afternoon, lt is surprising how he can turn the words to suit himself when he wants to. I agree with him that real factors are more important than nominal ones. Otherwise we are suffering from what is described as the money illusion. If we are suffering anywhere from the money illusion, and by continuing to suffer from it making more difficult the working of federal systems in Australia, it is in the proper allocations as between State governments and local authorities. I am not quite sure that there is an easy breakthrough of the nexus that links the local authorities to the States. 
I agree it is important. It is so important that we cannot continue to ignore it indefinitely. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What has been the course annually from (a) 1950-1960 and (b) 1960-1970 of: 
industrial productivity, 
retail prices, 
award wages, 
average weekly earnings and 
combined pension (male pensioner plus wife as a pensioner), based on the situation  in  (a) 1950 and (b) 1960 as an index. 
I want to conclude my remarks, which were interrupted by the adjournment of the House last night, by quoting from a recent book by Professor Sawer entitled Modern Federalism' in which he raised the matter of the nexus that exists between local, State and Commonwealth government authorities. He said:   . . there is a tendency for problems to be treated as national merely because they are common to many regions, even though there is no integration involved. For example, it is often said in Australia today that the Centre must begin to accept responsibility for problems of urban planning and redevelopment. However, there is little integration between the relevant problems of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. There is not even any aspect of planning and redevelopment problems in those cities which could be more economically or efficiently handled by a single staff in a single place, and above all not in Canberra . . . 
Once aggregative as distinct from integrated problems are thought of as national, then in the homogeneous affluent societies there are very few substantive topics incapable of becoming national' and so the affair of the Centre.  1 suggest that that is a warning that it is not as easy to sever the link between function and finance as is sometimes presumed. 
Are we to continue? This is absurd. I say to the Leader of the House that surely this is a reasonable time to adjourn. We have to meet tomorrow and it is now 4 o'clock. We have committee meetings in the morning at 9 o'clock. When will we adjourn? 

 Mr SPEAKER- I call the honourable member for Swan. 
Let us not be deceived by the volume of the amounts  offered.  We must realise that if local government services are to expand in Western Australia enormous capital will be required, which the State Government does not have available - nor has local government. We are in need of enormous amounts of capital to deal with the sewerage and drainage problems. There is land within 5 miles of the centre of Perth where building and development by the State Government and local government have been hopelessly delayed for want of capital for drainage and sewerage. Only the Commonwealth has the amounts available that are required to get the development under way. It is hopeless to expect the same taxpayer to pay twice for the facilities when he as a ratepayer has to meet the cost of the capital works, even if the loan moneys were available, which they are not. The State Electricity Commission has to use wide publicity campaigns to fill its loan issues in a competitive market. Even then it has difficulty in filling the loans. The money just is not there. 
Unless the Commonwealth recognises its responsibility to participate by assisting local government, rates will continue to spiral just to meet loan repayments on capital works. It is hopeless to expect local government, which is being forced to accept more duties in the service of the community, to find the funds to do so. I instance the infant health clinics which local government bodies establish in fixed buildings or, in some cases, in mobile clinics. They provide kindergartens, the cost of the establishment of which is met from ratepayers' funds and is in no way taken into account by the State grants. The Federal Government has indicated that it is to enter into the preschool-child minding centre scheme on the taxpayers' money. It is not unreasonable to ask that this scheme be further widened to take into account grants to local governments to enable them to expand and maintain their infant health clincis and kindergartens. If this intrustion is not made on a direct basis, provision should be made for the State to give assistance from Commonwealth grants. 
Assistance to local governments by all taxpayers is not a far fetched scheme, as some would have us believe. Let me quote from the Northern Territory report for  1969-70  at page  55.  Referring to local government, it says: 
Darwin is still the only Northern Territory centre with a City Council and municipal administration. Financial assistance from the Commonwealth in 1969-70 was $302,000 towards general operations, $168,000 on capital works and $269,000 on road construction commitments. In addition the Commonwealth carried out extensive reconstruction and improvements of main arterial roads and bridges. 
Here is a prime example of direct assistance to a city by the Commonwealth for items which should receive a flow on from Federal funds through the State authorities to local government. Such flow on of capital could assist with educational services such as libraries which, at the moment, have to wait their turn in competition with the clinics, kindergartens and senior citizen services which the local government authorities are being expected to provide. The growth and public demand for these services are becoming more and more, year by year. As a result, local authorities do not know which way to turn to satisfy all of the demands which, in the opinion of many people, are being foisted on them, when these matters should be the responsibility of tax collecting governments. 
The extra demand being made on local government is a reflection on the efficiency and the willingness of State and Federal governments to face up to their responsibility to the community. The situation in Western Australia is such that in many instances the local authority has no money left to deal with works in a proper manner. Footpaths and roads take secondary consideration because of a lack of funds. Funds have been expended on capital works and borrowings have been at such a high level that in some cases over  50  per cent of rate revenue goes in capital loan repayments yearly. This situation is not good enough. It is not good enough to say that urban services and planning are lacking, without attempting to ensure that our people receive a State grant sufficient to ensure that the difficulties mentioned are overcome. We cannot continue with this uneven and unequal development between States, between cities, between shires and between suburbs. It is imperative that genuine reorganisation take place at an early date. 
We in Western Australia are not deluded into believing that we will be able to over? come our sewerage, drainage and general expansion problems caused by increased population growth without large capital sums being made available to us. Some people say that we are a booming State. We are booming in the north, in exports and private company developed towns, and even in private railways. The little money made available by the Commonwealth Government to the States as a grant for the flow-on of this development is a disgrace. No credit is due to the Commonwealth Government for this. The lack of help given to cope with or to encourage developments in Western Australia has created a parlous situation. When the Commonwealth looks at figures our growth rate, etc., in relation to the betterment factor it looks at inaccurate figures. It should take into consideration all the problems to be faced with distance and the costs and the unfortunate pressures associated with attempts to absorb a new and dramatically growing population. 
People are attracted to the west by dreams of making a fortune which does not eventuate. So they compete with our established residents for housing and services which are hopelessly inadequate at this juncture. The crash housing development that is needed creates new areas with demands for clinics, kindergartens, libraries and all the associated services needed by a community. The cost of providing these services falls on local government. It cannot handle that cost. The Government has indicated that money is available for these services. It has announced its intention to enter the pre-school area. Therefore I call on the Government to make funds immediately available to local government, by special grant, to meet its immediate needs in sewerage and drainage and to facilitate housing development. I also call on the Commonwealth to make special grants for infant health clinics, kindergartens and other community services, the need for which is there now and is increasing. 
By giving the money to the people who are experienced in this field and who know the needs of their community, a real solution will be offered to local government, which is a responsible part of the community and which voluntarily takes interest in and responsibility for the needs of tha community. It will be the best possible means of solving the problems of the community at that level. As 1 understand the situation, at least one shire has already expanded its services to include the provision of child minding centres. These problems will be solved if a genuine attempt is made to ensure that the States have sufficient money by way of grants from the Commonwealth. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his second reading speech, admitted that to keep up with community demands for improved services the States have at the same time had to increase the severity of their own taxes and charges. They are severe indeed. 
I instance the road maintenance tax applied in Western Australia. Its application has led to the gaoling of several people and to threats of similar treatment to others who have been and are unable to meet the iniquitous tax that the State must impose because of an insufficient flow of grants from the Commonwealth. So, a desperate situation exists. Suggestions are being mooted to place an extra1c a gallon tax on fuel in an effort to raise the amount necessary for road maintenance. That is on top of the 3c tax already applied by this Government on fuel. If the extra tax on fuel imposed by the Budget were allowed to flow to the States, the problem of having a road maintenance tax would not exist. So, 36,000 commercial vehicle owners in Western Australia continue to suffer the double penalty of an increased fuel tax and an increased road maintenance tax, heavy permit fees for loads and heavy licensing fees for their vehicles. 
This secondary system of taxation is an unjust imposition of which the Government is aware. This Government must co-operate with the States to ensure that the imposition of this tax is not continued. I say that because there is at least 1 truck owner incarcerated in Western Australia, on a Commonwealth warrant, for the offence of non-payment of New South Wales taxes. The fact that he is a bankrupt does not protect him. He will remain there until the debt is cut out at $7.99 a day up to 13th January 1971. This is adding a further cost to the State. We have to support his family at additional cost. Also, it must have cost the Commonwealth something to put the warrant into effect. So when the Minister said that the States were having to increase the severity of their own taxes, I only hope that he appreciated the effect of these taxes on individuals - the citizens of Australia - who suffer because insufficient Commonwealth grants are being made available to the States. This is their own money.It has been collected from the citizens of the States by way of direct and indirect taxation. It is not only a grant; it is a right. 
It is unfortunate that the Government finds so many reasons to refuse to increase the return to the States of what is their own money. Unless some early solution is found to this impasse there will be a serious breakdown in State and local government finances. I call on the Commonwealth' to make grants to the States for the provision of community amenities in housing estates similar to those which the Commonwealth provides, by way of grants, in housing estates under its control. I have referred to the amenities which are provided in Darwin and whichI understand the Commonwealth is responsible for providing in Canberra itself. Let all be equal in opportunity and in the provision of amenities. Let the functions and finances of the Commonwealth Government, the State governments and local government authorities be balanced to ensure that resources are developed adequately and that adequate services are provided in the interests of the community. 
Motion (by  Dr Patterson)  put: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
The House divided  (Mr Speaker - Hon. Sir William Aston) 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. As the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  stated: 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to the guarantee by the Commonwealth of $US4.5m, or$A4m, borrowing by the Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The proceeds of the loan . . .. will assist in the financing of a major highways project in the highlands of New Guinea. 
As we know, Australia is still partly responsible for the development of New Guinea. Some 2.5 million people are our responsibility, and to advance them to a more significant stage of economic development requires an infrastructure, health, education, road systems and so on and the measure that is before us now will assist us in doing this. 
I regret that this sort of measure comes on at this time of the night. I might say that with the exception of a period of 3 hours I have been on deck in this place since 9 o'clock yesterday morning and I think it is rather absurd that the business of this Parliament is transacted in this way. It is a pity that measures of this kind cannot receive the sort of merit that they deserve. If Australia is regarded as having a responsibility for Papua and New Guinea I think that a measure of this sort of significance at least demands a better time for debate and a better opportunity for use to sum up its implications. However, if most honourable members feel as I do at this time of the night it is a little difficult to follow the significant ramifications of the Bill that we ought to be discussing. As I say, we offer no objection to the measure. It is necessary for the development of Papua and New Guinea, and we support it 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
BeforeI agree to this motion I should like to know the reason for it. So far as I knew, I was to speak on the Loan (Defence) Bill. 
I should hope that the Minister for Labour and National Service would do so. 
 Mr Speaker,  I am afraid that I must protest again about legislation coming on for debate at this time of night. However, I suppose that because of the way the business of the House is being dealt with this is inevitable. The Opposition intends to oppose the Bill which provides for the borrowing of $US125m for the purchase of defence equipment in the United States of America. The Opposition opposes the Bill for 2 reasons. As indicated in the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  the Loan (Defence) Act 1968 provided for the borrowing by the Commonwealth of an amount of $US75m to assist in financing the purchase of Fill aircraft. The Treasurer indicated that no drawings have yet been made against that loan. It seems a rather curious process that sanction has been given for a loan of $US75m which has not been utilised and it is now proposed to raise a further loan of $US125m bearing an interest rate of 7.375 per cent, which is a rather substantial interest rate. It is the view of the Opposition that a sum as relatively small as this could have been financed by the current international resources of Australia. It seems to be an utterly imprudent exercise to borrow $US125m at 7.375 per cent when there is no shortage of reserves if such sums are required for expenditure in the United States. 
Defence purchases are expendable items. It is not as if one is building up an asset which will return something. These items should be paid for as they are bought. I ask honourable members to consult the document entitled 'National Accounting Estimates of Public Authority Receipts and Expenditure - August 1970', which was brought down with the Budget Papers. I refer in particular to Table 2 at page 9, which relates to net expenditure on goods and services overseas. The item 'War and defence' shows that an amount of $151m was spent overseas on this category in 1965-66. In 1966-67 expenditure was $220m; in 1967-68 it was $3 13m; in 1968-69 it was $292m and in 1969-70 it was $189m. A further expenditure of $186m in 1970-71 is projected. These amounts aggregate somewhere in the region of $ 1,200m, being the expenditure in a period of 6 years. 
As I indicated in the debate on the defence estimates the other night, when one deducts from the defence expenditure the categories of wages, salaries and maintenance one is still left with a fairly significant defence expenditure on what might be called the capital aspect. I think that this only serves to highlight how dependent we have allowed ourselves to become on what might be called military procurement .overseas. We have allowed ourselves to become too dependent upon overseas sources to equip our forces. A lot has been said in recent times about what are called offset orders. It seems to me that more lip service than substance is being paid to this aspect. It is rather glibly said that the fourth arm of defence - besides the 3 Services - is the capacity of Australian industry to supply the sinews of defence capacity. It seems that each year we are allowing ourselves to become more and more dependent on overseas sources, particularly the United States of America, for the procurement of the necessary hardware, which I think is a term that is sometimes used, to equip our forces. 
We all know about the Fill aircraft. I have said before that if a Labor government had been in office and had been responsible for this episode it would have been pilloried in every newspaper in Australia. Something which was asked for in 1963 as a matter of urgency has not been delivered even in 1970 and it has cost somewhere in the region of $300m. I rather gather that the reason why the 1968 loan which was appropriated for the Fill aircraft has not been expended is because satisfactory terms have not been worked out for the delivery of this aircraft. The excuse given when new equipment is ordered overseas is, of course, that it could not be procured in Australia at reasonable terms. When the Fill proposition was first put forward in 1963 it was said that it would cost somewhere in the vicinity of $100m. The cost has now risen to $300m, but we have not received the aircraft. At least this shows that, when it is suggested rather categorically that Australian industry cannot compete, consideration has not been given to the fact that there is a great deal of difference between the first price and the final price. That is true not only of Australia's experience overseas but also of European countries. There is a great deal of difference between the projected cost and the final cost. As indicated, the Opposition intends to oppose this measure for a variety of reasons. Firstly, at the moment there is no shortage of exchange to pay for this item and. secondly, the rate at which the borrow ing is to take place - in excess of 7 per cent - is very high for what are really expendable items. 
That simply shows bow high interest rates are today. I wish some attempt was being made to get interest rates down instead of luxuriating on the difference between what we borrow and what we accumulate. If you are borrowing internally, at least you garner something from our usurers in internal taxation. That is not so in this instance. I stick to my point that it would be more prudent to pay cash than to incur interest payments. It would be better to become more self-reliant than to talk about offsetting orders. This was talked about when the former honourable member for Paterson was the Minister for Defence, and that is some time ago. It does not seem to me that we have done anything very practical towards achieving what is stated. If we are to buy equipment from overseas at least there is a case for the countries we buy from to give us orders within the capacity of our own interest. But at this stage of the night I do not want to labour the point any further. 
When a similar measure was before us in 1968 the Opposition opposed it. On that occasion the loan was tied to the Fill venture. We said in 1968 - I think it was at about the same time of the year - that the loan should be deferred until better arrangements were made for the actual procurement of the Fills in February 1969. Since that time the situation wim the Fills has deteriorated even further. The particular equipment we are to buy with this loan is not stated in the Treasurer's speech. It seems that we go shopping around the world. If we find that the Export-Import Bank will lend us some money for some purpose that we cannot quite define at the time we say: 'Oh well, we will say it is for defence'. Defence does not come within the province of the loan agreement so we do not have to get the consent of the Premiers. We camouflage it on the pretence that it is for defence purposes. Indeed, the Treasurer concluded his second reading speech with this line: 
Since the borrowing is for defence purposes the  pproval  of the Loan Council is not required. 
I merely regard this as a rather convenient fiction which is being increasingly indulged in. In 1966 we had a loan of $450m from the United States of America. In 1968 we had a loan similar to this for $75m. Now we have this loan for $125m. The aggregate of these loans is $650m. As I have pointed out, in stark reality in the last 6 years we have actually spent overseas on procurement a sum of some $ 1,200m. I think it is time that we stopped this kind of folly. I make this protest on behalf of the Opposition at this stage. By opposing this measure we hope to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that we regard this sort of legislation as highly imprudent in all the circumstances. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the amount of payroll tax collected from (a) State governments, (b) local governing bodies and (c) other State authorities from 1st January 1969 to 31st December 1969. 
What was the amount collected separately from education departments in each of the States for the same period. 
ls payroll tax levied on teachers' salaries where teachers are employed by State education departments but not on teachers' salaries where they are employed in non-government schools. 
If so. what is the reason for the different treatment. 
I ask the Treasurer whether he intends to take any positive action to regulate the supply of credit, other than through banking facilities, following his discussions with representatives of the Australian Finance Conference. Has he given any attention to the field of intercompany lending which has contributed in no small measure to certain recent financial disasters? Are there any constitutional limits to regulating these fields of credit supply through the mechanisms of the Reserve Bank? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was :he outcome of some attention at departmental level being given to whether section 51 of the Constitution could be used by the Commonwealth, following the example of uniform legislation relating to life insurance passed in 1945, to pass uniform legislation in the field of third party insurance (Ilansard,- 18th August 1970, page 110). 
As it is now commonplace for motorists to venture far interstate,- has he considered the desirability of the . Commonwealth intervening lo ensure uniformity in the field of third party insurance, even though the Acts of the 6 Slates are by no means identical. 
Will the Commonwealth itself now examine the merits of adopting a concept other than negligence' as the norm for compensation in road accident cases instead of waiting oh the deliberations of the Australian Transport Advisory Council which has in turn been frustrated by the failure to secure he report called for by the New South Wales State Government on this matter. 
Has his attention been, drawn to the situation in Saskatchewan, one of the middle Provinces of Canada, which has operated since 1946 under absolute liability' -in substitution for 'negligence' without problems arising with neighbouring Provinces or complementary or reciprocal legislation being necessary. 
Will he give an assurance that, iin any future inquiries sponsored by the Commonwealth,evidence from spokesmen for road victims, hospitals and .such, apart from the usual motoring bodies and insurance companies, will be sought. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable, the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of residents of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
The Red Kangaroo, largest marsupial in the world, has through shooting for commerce become extinct or rare in many areas of Australia where it was once prolific. 
All scientific evidence points to this decimation of numbers, which is clear evidence that State Governments arc unable to control commercial shooting within their boundaries. 
We, the people of Australia, feel strong repugnance to the fact that industries should be allowed to operate, which in the past have decimated the koala to extinction over vast areas of this land and which have now similarly exploited the kangaroo. We feel that the taxpayer should not have the heavy burden of having to pay for the control of an industry which benefits but a few people in this country, and that live kangaroos through their value as tourist attractions are economically far more profitable to our economy and to us aesthetically. 
We your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that you will: 
Immediately ban the export of products made from kangaroos. 
Strongly insist that State Governments prohibit the commercial shooting of kangaroos. 
Enact legislation to give the Commonwealth Government control of all native wildlife throughout Australia. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I find it somewhat astonishing to hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  that our difficulty in the economy at the moment is not in the field of consumption expenditure. If it is not, why is there this great alarm about the wage increase? 
I would just like to point out for the right honourable gentleman that last year the gross national product rose by nearly S3, 000m and the increase in the aggregate amount of wages and salaries was SI, 800m during the 12 months. I-le seems to be concerned at the moment, as the experts' estimates that he asked for indicate that instead of an increase in wages that would aggregate S720m the figure is $900m. This seems to me to be the kind of lack of perspective that the Government has about the magnitudes which now move the economy. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in the course of his speech indicated that, taking the Australian economy in its totality, wages, salaries and supplements expressed as a percentage of the gross national product had fallen over a 15-year period from 63.2 per cent to 61.7 per cent and that in that time the number of people who are supposed to be sharing those wages had increased from 89.6 per cent of the population to 91 per cent. What we in this House want to know is: What does the Government propose to do about the other nearly 40 per cent of the economy? Why is there concern only about what happens to wages? The right honourable gentleman read us a lesson from the Organisation for 
Economic Co-ordination and Development. I would like to read out to him what has been said in this House over many years. I quote from the Trade Union Advisory Committee to the OECD as far back as 1965. That body said: 
An argument can be made out for planning and guiding incomes; and argument can also be made qui for leaving them unplanned and unguided; but there is nothing at all to be said for planning or guiding half the incomes and leaving the other half unguided and unplanned and subject to market forces of varying degrees of monopoly control. 
I submit that in Australia we have planning of that part of the total income which is called wages but we have no planning in the other field, and that we have in this coutry more than in most countries an increasing degree of monopoly control. 1 am not able in the limited time I have to quote examples of this. I have only a quarter of an hour as against the 40 minutes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had. But it is this failure to grapple with any of these other elements that shows the Government's failings. 
Looking at what has happened in the Australian economy over the last 10 years or so, it can be seen that there has been inflation at an average of 21 per cent per annum. 1 refer again to the Australian Economic Review which shows that in the same period, 1960-69, when prices rose by an annual average of 2.5 per cent, the average weekly earnings increased by 6.3 per cent and wages, salaries and supplements by 9.4 per cent. All that that serves to point out in the first place is that wages are not the only elements that are significant in the economy. There is no need to boggle at the point that the wage is the most significant single economic factor in the economy because the majority of people who get an. income do so as wage earners. To some degree the wage earner through the court is able to look after himself. But if inflation occurs something has to be done by a government to look after the rest of the community. I submit that that is not what is being done in Australia today. As a proportion of the work force of  about 4.5  million there is nearly a quarter, that is, over 1 million people, of the Australian community dependent either on the pension paid by this Government or deriving a pension as superannuation which is fixed by the terms of the contract. They, of course, are some of the prime victims of inflation. 
Our complaint about the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  is that when he went on television the other night he told the Australian public he wanted to tell them briefly about the current situation, but when he came to Parliament he should have told us in some detail what the measures are. So far we have had this S75m reduction in Government expenditure out of a sum that is now close to S8,000m. The Government will reduce the likely intake into the Commonwealth Public Service from 10.500 to 8,000. What is supposed to happen to the 2,500 people who are not taken in? Is it thought they will be better in private industry or is it thought they will be better doing nothing at ali? I sometimes think the attitude of this Government is that it would be better to have a lot more people doing nothing at all. A government has to maintain some sort of equipoise in all sections of the community between growth and stability, and the examples that the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave indicate the difficulties. I agree with him. There is no single simple solution to this problem but we will not get solutions at all until we analyse what the difficulties are. Who is he to come along and say to a so-called independent tribunal that determines wages what the mechanism for deciding wage levels ought to be? I quote for the Minister the view that was expressed in 1968 by  Sir Richard  Kirby,  Mr Justice  Gallagher and  Mr Justice  Moore who gave a unanimous judgment that year. They said: 
We all agree that in the present circumstance* of full employment and in the absence of an incomes policy, it is just not practicable for increases in wages and salaries to be kept confined within productivity increases. To believe otherwise is to ignore what has happened and what is happening in other countries of the Western world. 
Yet the Minister wants to rivet upon that court the thesis that it ought to work not by the rule that it derived but by a rule he wants to put upon it. I suggest the workers of Australia and other sections of Australia will not accept that controls be imposed only in one place. Let us look at the other 40 per cent of the economy. The 2 great problems in a total economy are to do justice to people who have to live out of incomes and therefore ate concerned about prices - the majority of them in an industrial economy are wage earners - and to cut the right sort of balance between that part of the total which we do not consume today and that which we invest; that is, to strike a proper balance between consumption and investment, and to realise we divide investment into 2 great fields, public investment and private investment. 
It is easy in these debates to trot out figures like $9 00m. Most people, of course, are horrified by that sort of sum anyway, ls there very much difference between the total impact, if that is the argument, that the wage bill will have if it is S900m instead of $720m on an economy that is deriving a total income of about $32, 000m? There is another point on what is able to be done in private spheres and what is able to be done in public spheres. I can only make a couple of snap shots because I have little time. I quote from one of those blurbs that circulate called the 'Australian Newsletter'. It is really issued by a body called the Victorian Promotion Committee. Of course, it is for consumption overseas, lt says in relation to Westernport Bay: 
In less than 5 years, Westernport has attracted committed and projected private investment in new industrial projects amounting to more than SI, 344m with more to come. 
Has anybody got any idea what S 1,344m spent over 1 field of private endeavour in 1 State means in relation to some other things? I will tell honourable members something. The total expenditure in Victoria in the same 5 years in education at all levels - public, private, primary, secondary and tertiary - was less than that sum. Who makes the decision in the economy that where there are limited resources for investment, as well as having good machines there have to be educated people as well? We have to strike a balance between the money going into education and the money going into private endeavour. Who sets the figure of $l,344m? They are going to spend another $1,1 20m in the next few years building a steel mill alongside what is already there. Does anybody suggest there may not be elements of waste in that Si ,344m or that the money out of which it is financed may not have been purchased at too high a price? All of us have been astonished in the last couple of weeks by the spectacle of these financial monsters who seem to want to eat each other. After all, what has Mineral Securi ties Australia Limited, taken as an entity, done to take a single piece of ore out of the ground? It has acted as a go-between. It has bid up the price of money and it has brought financial disaster into some areas. But what happens? We get something which is called a consortium arising like Phoenix out of the ashes which is able to raise $35m. And at what interest rate? Six per cent. What happens when we want to find money for Commonwealth loans or to finance houses on mortgage? Can we get it at 6 per cent? Why are these people able to do this sort of thing so quickly and with such magnitude when the Government tells us it cannot find another $3 Om to raise the pension by 50c? Where are the perspectives in this kind of situation? 
Where are the Government's prorities not only on the plane of economy, on the fiscal side, but also on the plane of humanity? 1 again agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he said that Australia is going through changes. What he should have acknowledged is that those changes have been upon us for a long time and that the sort of measures which he is now taking should have been taken many years ago in order to mobilise, for the better development of this country, the resources that are at our disposal. One of the great problems when we change from primary industry to the mining industry as the field of potential export earning is how to go from the position of having the minerals under the ground to producing and selling them? In my view we have let the speculators in. I suggest that this country is living in the casino and that it is time it got back to the kitchen. 
The Defence Pay Bill is a rather curious measure. In a moment 1 shall indicate why. The Bill is described as a Bill to validate certain payments made to or in respect of members of the Defence Force and to persons employed in a civil capacity under the Naval Defence Act 1910-1952 or under that Act as amended. The Bill seeks to validate certain sums of money which were paid to members of the Navy, the Army and the Air Force mostly in the period from 196.1 to 1963 with the exception of some payments which were made to a limited number of civilian employees in the Navy up to 19th June 1969. If it were not for this validating legislation, in a technical sense the payments could be described as unlawful. I shall indicate the sense in which they are unlawful by quoting some remarks which were made by the First Parliamentary Counsel.  Mr Ewens,  in the course of cross-examination before the Joint Committee on Public Accounts. I refer to the 50th report of the Public Accounts Committee which was tabled in 1960. I stress how far back this situation goes and how long it has taken to reach the stage of now validating the payments. 

 Mr Ewens is reported, in paragraph 39 at page 13 of the printed report, as having said: 
It is nol unlawful in the sense that there is any criminal action on which a prosecution can be taken, but it is unlawful in the sense that the money was paid without authority because a legal basis for the payment did not exist, and to thai extent it was made without lawful authority. 
He further said:   . . the word 'unlawful' is rather ambiguous. No-one suggests that there has been any criminality in what has been done in this instance. No-one could be charged with an offence. But in the circumstances 1 have mentioned there is no doubt that in strict law the payments are made without a complete chain of legal authority, and to that extent they are unlawful. 
The amounts aggregate a sum of $50m. I for one was rather surprised how the payments had reached a sum of that magnitude when I looked at the sorts of items they were supposed to cover. The payments were only amounts over and above existing allowances for overseas outfit allowances, overseas allowances for short term duty, overseas transit allowances, overseas living out allowances, child allowances, school expenses, overseas rental allowances, and representation and entertainment allowances. In another category the allowances were for scale of clothing and necessaries; replacement of initial issues - whatever they are supposed to be; scale of issues - rations; and scale of issues - fuel, light and stores. A further category covered the following payments: Good conduct badge pay; something described as hard-lying money, whatever hard-lying money is supposed to be; rent for Service residences issue of uniform kit; mileage allowances; short term duty travelling allowances; and removal of furniture and effects. 
As honourable members know, there is what is described as subordinate legislation or the power to do certain things by regulation. We all know that certain Acts provide that regulations in accordance with or in the spirit of the Act may be gazetted. It is because of that sort of circumstance that this situation has arisen. The first matter to which I draw attention is the inordinate length of time which it took for this situation to be rectified. I point out that in 1960 - this is based on the AttorneyGeneral's report for 1958-59- -the Public Accounts Committee drew attention to irregularities which existed in regulations for the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy and the Department of Air. Apparently up to 1960 these irregularities were rectified but immediately the departments again slipped into the easy, method of making payments higher than those provided in the existing regulation without drawing a new regulation. 
This was again drawn to the attention of the various departments by the Public Accounts Committee 4 years later. The Committee in its 65th report rightly drew attention to the fact that it had raised the matter 6 years before but the same sort of thing still seemed to be going on. At page 6, the 65th report states: 
Compliance with the Law 
The Prime Minister drew to the attention of Ministers the Committee's recommendation in paragraph 77 (i) - 
That paragraph is to be found in the 52nd report -  and asked them lo bring to the notice of departmental officers the need lo comply with the law, to observe promptly legislative requirements and to keep their Ministers fully informed on these matters. 
That was the position in 1964. One would think that after a second rebuke the offence would not be repeated. But as late as the 103rd report of the Public Accounts Committee, which was tabled in this House in 1968, we find reference to that situation. Paragraph 2. states: 
The situation that Your Committee's investigation disclosed caused grave concern. It found that the persistence with which the Departments of the Navy, Army and Air had pursued a course over many years of making unlawful payments to service personnel, had most important implications. 
The Committee went on to point out what it recommended in 1964. That recommendation states: 
We recommend also - 
thai appropriate and early steps be taken by the Government so that Departments, in  future  - 
will comply with the law; 
will observe promptly legislative requirements; and 
will keep their Ministers fully informed in these matters. 
What is involved goes to the heart of parliamentary responsibility for expenditure. The excuse given was that there was not enough staff in the Parliamentary Counsel's office and there were not enough competent people within the departments to properly draft the subordinate legislation. Also there seemed to be a disposition on the part of departmental heads to draw regulations without consulting their Ministers. When the regulations went to the then Attorney-General he rightly suggested that they were matters of policy rather than matters of day to day administration and he would not draw them unless they had the authority of the Minister. To my mind, this sort of thing is rather serious particularly when we find the Government today apparently regarding it as quite a bright move in the current circumstances for what are called economic reasons not to employ 2,500 skilled people representing the cream of the people coming out of our institutions at which higher levels of education are provided. 
Although it has been pointed out that nobody can be accused of having acted criminally with respect to the matter dealt with by the Bill, in a parliamentary and constitutional sense the payments made are unlawful. They are unlawful presumably because not enough people competent to draw the regulations in the right way are available in the Department. I suppose that a person can play a bit with some of the heads of expenditure and the items under which payments have been made, taking into account the variety of Service grades, types of duty, and questions of supply, serving outside the country, serving inside it and so on. I can appreciate that, in the forces, this is a complex enough field. But taking into account the fact that sums as great in magnitude as $50m can be regarded as being unlawfully paid, I suggest that it is time that the matter was looked at more closely than has been the case. 
This measure, as I say, operates mainly with respect to payments which were made as far back as 1963. The payments were made mostly between 1961 and 1963. I must confess that no detail has been given in the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as to how these amounts are made up among the various items that I have listed or in what years most of the items fell. Simply round figures have been provided. Again, they are similar to the kinds of figures which were given to this House last night or the night before by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to justify cer tain measures that are being taken. They are bald figures without any detail. If people are able in a sense to make unlawful payments of the magnitude of $50m, how will it be possible to achieve within the various departments some of the cuts proposed by the Prime Minister when the Government chooses to implement them? 
I submit that this sort of treatment of these large sums of money is not good enough. The attention of the Parliament has been drawn to this matter by one of its committees. I for one applaud the work of the Joint Standing Committee of Public Accounts. I was a member of this Committee until 1956. Whilst I cannot claim to read all its reports, because it seems to me to be one of the most hard-working committees in the Parliament, nevertheless, when I see a title of a report by this Committee concerning an inquiry into certain fields of interest to me I do read that report. 
When this Committee points to certain difficulties - and these are difficulties of administration and of management rather than of dishonesty or peculation - I think that the observations of the Committee ought to be carried out. This does not seem to be the case here. I do not think that the Minister for Defence who introduced this Bill is here when we are debating it. This seems to me to be a casual way of transacting business. I suppose that it is all right to say that the incidents leading to the introduction of this Bill happened years ago. Well, if they happened years ago, why did it take so long to validate these actions. 
With all respect, I do not think that any explanation has been given as to what happened in the past, nor do I think that any explanation has been given to show that the same sort of thing cannot happen again. It seems to me that the vast numbers of regulations that do need to be made simply pile up and payments to be authorised by those regulations are made on the presumption that the regulations will be passed anyway. So, the attitude is to pass the payments. 
The example before us is a rather interesting one in one sense because these sums were within the parliamentary Estimates and yet, in another sense, they were unlawful.. A rather interesting comment is made on this point at page 13 of the Fiftieth Report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts to which I referred earlier. Regarding the fact that Parliament had appropriated sufficient money to permit the payments,  Mr Ewens  said: 
In giving the opinion that  1  have submitted to the Committee, I considered carefully the question whether the payments could be considered as authorised by reason of the fact that Parliament had apparently appropriated enough money to make these payments at rates above the rates set out in the regulations, and after a lot of careful thought about that I came to the conclusion that, notwithstanding that appropriation, the payments were nevertheless made without authority. ... Of course, no Treasurer, or no Minister, can set aside the law, and if the true position is that under the Defence Act the rates of pay have to be prescribed by regulations, then they have to be prescribed by the regulations, and no other authority er person has any jurisdiction to say otherwise. I think that answers the question. 
I think that we ought to be thankful that there are people like  Mr Ewens  who have some respect for the authority of Parliament, whatever deficiencies may exist within administrative levels. 
I suggest that this is a serious matter. When 1 spoke to members, of the Public Accounts Committee about this matter, I found that they were not even aware that this measure was before . the House. This seems to me to be a slight upon them. The courtesy of sending the legislation to them to show them that something was being done even if it was being done very late in the piece had not been extended to them. This Bill covers the period to 1969 only. The question that J  still wish to ask is: Have any payments been made not only in the defence forces but in any of the ramifications of government between 1969 and 1971 under regulations' which it is presumed will be gazetted but which have not yet been gazetted? 1 suggest that the Government ought to give some reply to that question. 
I did not intend to say very much about this matter because it came to my notice only last night that T was supposed to be handling the Bil) because of the absence of one of my colleagues. When I read this legislation late last night, I had some inkling of what had happened in the Public Accounts Committee nearly 10 years ago. Through the services that are available, I was able to obtain copies of those reports. I thought- it relevant to mention to the 
House what the Committee had suggested long ago and to indicate the very long period that has elapsed between the time when these matters were pointed out and the time of the presentation of the validating legislation, which is before us now. 
But I also wish to inquire whether this gap has been closed finally so that, in the future, regulations on policy will not be made by permanent beads in an attempt to bypass the responsible Minister. The First Parliamentary Counsel was a good backstop in that respect. I ask further: Are regulations to be acted upon on the presumption that they will be passed? To me this way of getting around the protections that are supposed to reside in the authority of Parliament to disallow regulations is most serious. 
This is one of the annual series of financial documents which cover, in the words of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, 'items that were urgent and unforeseeable at the beginning of the financial year'. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  allocates a sum of $20m in the Budget - he actually allocates it twice, once for ordinary works and services and a similar sum for capital works - anticipating, as in every year, that if something unforeseen comes along there will at least be money available to meet such expenditure. I wish to comment on  2  aspects. Before these items come before honourable members for considerationthey are investigated by the Public Accounts Committee which produces a report. This report helps honourable members' to judge the merits of the expenditures before us. On this occasion the report is the one hundred and twenty-third report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. I commend that Committee and its members and staff for the vast amount of detailed work which they perform. I draw the attention of honourable members to what the Committee said in paragraph 190: 
A further disturbing feature of the same case relates to the need for Departments that make computer services available to other Departments and to Statutory Authorities to ensure that adequate training is provided for the staffs of such Departments and Authorities in the interpretation of output data from the computers. We also believe that this problem could, with advantage, be examined by the A.D.P. Development Branch of the Public Service Board and by the client Departments and Authorities concerned. 
Of course, in many respects . to -most laymen the computer still seems to be a rather mysterious instrument or assistant to have at our disposal. It is true that in many cases computers have been installed' in departments when it would have been better to have rented them from somewhere else, while in other cases the full potentiality of the mechanism is not yet . understood. Therefore, there is this urgent need to train people in the departments. I think a committee in another place pointed,to the lack of skilled personnel in particular matters. 1 drew attention only last week to the difficulty of drawing adequate regulations because there are not enough people within the departments who are skilled enough to draw regulations. There has to be considerable passing backwards and ' forwards between the departments concernedand the Attorney-General's Department in order to get the appropriate regulations drawn. Again this seems to me' to point to the weakness in the blanket decision made the other day to reduce the entry of people into the Public Service by some 2,500. I do not think anybody should be employed anywhere if he is not needed but it is : certainly very false economy not "to employ somebody whose services are 'needed because ail that is done in that' situation is to reduce the effective output of the: department. This applies not only to: Government departments but also to private enterprises. 
The observation to be gleaned from paragraph 190 of the Public Accounts Committee report is that perhaps we do not have adequate training mechanisms within the departments to train those people who are intended properly to utilise the services of the computer and that is why it is important that no skilled person should be prevented from entering the Public Service as, I think, may be the case with the cuts recently announced. I draw the attention of the Committee to one particular item which appears under the Department of the Treasury - a grant ot Si Om financial assistance to Victoria. My colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who is overseas at the moment examining the impact of Britain's entry into the European Common Market, asked a question of the Treasurer long before he went overseas. The question was placed on notice in September or October of last year and the answer appears in yesterday's Hansard.  Mr Hurford  asked: 
Was the expenditure of  $ 10m  during 1969-70 under Division 917 ... for any specific purpose? 
 The Treasurer replied: 
The item referred lo was a loan to Victoria in exceptional circumstances to assist the Slate to meet Budgetary difficulties.  1 suppose it would be rather nasty of me to point out that the loan was granted at the height of the State election campaign, and there seemed to be a suggestion of some political gimmickry at the time of the offer. The honourable member for Adelaide asked also on what date the amount was paid to Victoria. It was paid on 30th June 1970, and the election was held not many weeks before hand. He asked also whether the payment was a grant or a loan and the Treasurer's reply indicates that it was a loan. The honourable member for Adelaide asked about the conditions of the loan and the Treasurer replied that the amount was repayable over 5 years by annual instalments of S2m on the 30th June each year, and bearing interest at  6i  per cent, which was the Commonwealth bond rate in the may 1970 cash loan. lt seems to me that rather parlous conditions exist in Commonwealth-State relationships when sovereign State like Victoria, which has about 27 per cent of the total population of Australia, has to go begging, as it were, for sums as small as SI Om. This highlights what I have indicated on other occasions in this chamber, namely, that because of this kind of financial stringency there is taking place, a type of marginal starvation in the States. The Commonwealth has the luxury .of being able to choose freely what it can and cannot do in respect of ' what are essential projects, looked at on a national scale, but the States find increasingly that their revenues, both ordinary and loan funds, are taken up more and more in providing essential services like education, health, upkeep of roads, public transport, social welfare and so forth. It is time we did a little more social planning or national planning so th»* instead of curtailing expenditure on calendar dates we assessed, some years in advance, the overall needs of the Stales. The time in this debate is limited but I draw the attention of the Committee to these 2 matters; firstly, the.ne'ed to see that staff is more adequately trained to use the great blessings that the computer is able to bestow and, secondly, to the deteriorating situation of Commonwealth and State financial relationships. 

 Mr MARTIN (Banks)' (5.5)'- In the short time available to me in' this debate I should like to concentrate on' that item of the Advance to the Treasurer which deals with Commonwealth .Taxation Office salaries and payments in the nature of salary. I shall concentrate on the investigation activities of the Taxation Office, and on income tax investigations in' particular. In this regard, I quote from the 49th report of the Commissioner of Taxation 1969-70, which is the latest report. The Commissioner of Taxation states: . 
Like most  revenue  collecting authorities, the Taxation Office has to handle a continually growing volume of work with strictly limited resources. The volume of work grows with the population and the general development of the economy. In practice, this natural tendency is accentuated by the increasing complexity of taxation law and practice. Over the years, some taxpayers have become more prone to conduct their income-producing activities through companies, trusts, partnerships, etc. The necessary elaboration of the taxation laws designed to curb tax avoidance or to provide economic incentives inevitably produces new problems of law and practice which add to the basic task of establishing the taxpayer's income and the other facts on which his liability depends. Over and above all this. there is the general problem' of maintaining a level of compliance with the taxation laws which will satisfy the great majority of taxpayers that they are. not bearing an excessive share of ihe  burden  of luxation - a task which becomes more onerous as some taxpayers become more ready to resort lo complex arrangements to minimise their taxation burdens. 
Later in bis report the Commissioner talks of the necessity for specialised investigation staff to concentrate on their primary role of uncovering omissions of income. When the Commissioner speaks of limited resources what does he mean? 1 can speak with some authority on this subject since I was employed in the investigation field of the Taxation Office for 15 years prior to my election to this House. I believe that the Commissioner of Taxation is referring to lack of staff - lack of investigation officers. 
In my experience, the work of this Department and also of other departments has been stifled by action taken at political levels. I should like to quote a recent instance. The latest edict of the Prime Minister (Mt Gorton) in ordering a reduction of the intake of new staff has had, in the Taxation Office, the resultant effect of a decrease in the time spent by investigation officers on investigation duties with a consequent loss of revenue to the Commonwealth. This is pennywise and pound foolish. I quote again from the report of the Commissioner . of Taxation. He said: 
A judgment has to be made between, on the  one  hand, the need to keep administrative costs at a reasonable minimum and, on the other hand, the need to protect the revenue - a need which is highlighted by the fact that each departmental investigation officer produces, on the average, nearly $100,000 in extra tax and penalties in the course of a year's work. 
The attitude of the Prime Minister, as I stated, is pennywise and pound foolish. The diversion of one investigation officer alone costs the Commonwealth $100,000 in lost revenue. All of this is done on the supposed score of economy. 
Another and more serious interference at political level involves the instructions, either expressed or implied, which find their way from Government sources to the taxation administration. One instance of this to my knowledge was the complete curtailment of income tax investigation activities against a particular section of the business community on the instruction., either expressed or implied, of the then Treasurer. This should never happen. The Commissioner of Taxation should be completely free and unfettered to carry out his duties 
10953/ 71 -JJ- JJ9J 
as he alone sees fit. I trust that what has happened in the past will never happen again. I trust that the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  who is sitting at the table now. will not follow the example set for him by some of his predecessors. In this field 1 think it is important to draw these facts to the attention not only of the Treasurer and the members of Parliament but to the people in general so that when we do consider items of public expenditure and items of revenue the people themselves will know how their money is spent, whether they are getting value for their money and whether the taxation laws of this country are administered or allowed to be administered in a completely impartial and unfettered manner. 
The Opposition does not intend to oppose this motion. I might observe that on 2nd May 1962, when the legislation which we are now partly repealing was introduced, 1 described it at one stage as a specialised subsidy that will be paid under the subterfuge that it is an income tax deduction. Unless that be thought to be regarded as a wild partisan observation 1 would like to quote from one of the more recent editions of Gunn's 'Income Tax Law and Practice'. I wish to quote from volume 2 of the 8th edition, which is now the 9th edition. However, the following comment has not been altered. The comment reads: 
The following example demonstrates that in the case of a non-private manufacturing company, the investment allowance is equal to a direct subsidy of up to 8i per cent of the cost of the plant. 
Perhaps 1 might briefly indicate what the investment allowance is as it applies to manufacturing plant. Let me take as an example, as did the learned writer of the Income Tax Law and Practice', a piece of plant that cost $100,000 when it is installed.  We  go through the polite fiction of saying in essence that this plant cost $ 120,000. Let us say that $20,000 is claimed immediately in the first year of assessment as the cost of installing the plant. Normal depreciation of $100,000 could then be claimed over the lifetime of the plant. 
The investment allowance was introduced and first had impact in the financial year 1962- 63. In that year $120,000 was claimed as an investment allowance by individuals and $40.6m was claimed by companies. In 1963- 64 the amount claimed by individuals was$23. 861.000 and the amount for companies was $57. 8m. In 1964-65 the amount for individuals was $23,411,000 and for companies it was $73. 2m; in 1965-66 it was $18,452,000 for individuals and $73. 2m for companies; in 1966-67 it was $25,205,000 for individuals and $8 1.7m for companies; and for 1967-68 it was $17,367,000 for individuals and $85m for companies. The financial year 1967-68 is the last year for which statistics are available - to me, at any rate. As a rough estimate for that period, aggregating the amount which had been claimed, and the rate of taxes that have applied to this subsidy, to call it such, I would think that the amount for the installation of plant would be somewhere between $l50m and $200m. 
The deduction applies not only to manufacturing plant, lt applies to plant used for primary production. It is not intended to vary the deduction as far as primary producers are concerned. However, it is intended to suspend the investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment as part of the inflationary precautions - and I want to say more about that in a moment. Here we have an example showing where taxation powers can be used, not so much for the purposes of revenue but in order to allocate resources in particular directions in the economy. There is nothing wrong with that as a principle except that it becomes a bit difficult when one tries to apply it in aggregate through the mechanisms of income tax. As I have said, this deduction is to be taken off manufacturing plant but it is to be left on plant used for primary production. 
In Melbourne there are Collins Street farmers and in Sydney there are Pitt Street farmers. I should have thought that there might have been some attempt to limit the primary production deductions to people' who are genuinely employed on the land rather than to include those who farm it for other reasons. Part of the argument that 1 want to develop is that one of the reasons for our inflationary situation is the demand in the community for available resources that in aggregate are in short supply. Suitable land for farming purposes is one of those resources.If we want to match resources with available capital the question of the rate of interest comes into the picture. One of the inflationary factors that the Government has done very little about - and I want to say more about this also - is the exorbitant interest rates that now apply in our community. I know it is easy to say that the rate here is much less than it is in Malaysia or in Indonesia or in some other countries that we usually do not like to compare ourselves with. Nevertheless, in my view, interest rates by and large are excessive in the Australian economy today. It is becoming very difficult for certain sections of the community to purchase the capital resources that they feel they require when we consider that the Government loan rate is in the region of 7 per cent, that the bank overdraft rate is over that, as is the mortgage rate, and so on. 
With the consent of the House - and 1 have discussed this with the Treasurer  (Mr 
Bury) - I would like to . incorpoprate in Hansard 2 tables taken directly from the Forty-ninth Report of The Commissioner of Taxation. Part of the incorporation is taken from the ordinary report and part from the statistical section of the report. The tables show the history of the investment allowance over the last 3 years. Earlier in my speech I gave figures from the time the investment allowance was introduced. However, 1 want to concentrate my argument this evening on the field of companies. The tables set out the amount of investment allowance and certain other statistics concerning depreciable assets of individuals, partnerships, trusts and companies. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate the tables in Hansard. 

<graphic href="071131197102232_47_0.jpg"></graphic>

During my speech 1 would like to expand on the contents of the tables. As I have said, I want to look at the field of companies in particular. The Commissioner of Taxation, in the non-statistical section on page 59 of his forty-ninth report, gives some brief statistics of the aggregate impact on taxation. The interesting thing is that the investment allowance is but one of the many concessions that are allowed to companies in computing their taxable income. 1 want te draw attention to some of the other items because it seems to me that the Government is trying to take great credit to itself for the possible effectiveness of this measure. Historically the investment allowance legislation was brought in at a time of slump to endeavour to activate the business community. There is no guarantee that if something which was brought in to activate the economy is reversed, such a move necessarily will have a decelerating effect. Also, when we look at the aggregate figures of investment over the years that the investment allowance has been in force we see that the investment allowance has been a very small part of what might be called investment in gross fixed capital expenditure. I would now like to refer to the item All Other', under the heading 'Gross fixed capital expenditure': that is, buildings which are not eligible for depreciation. 1 simply point to the set figure for the year 1967-68, for which statistics are available, in that year, depreciable assets purchased - that is, assets on which deduction claims were entitled lo be made for income tax purposes on a depreciation basis - amounted '.o SI. 3 18,033,000. In that same year the amount allowed as investment allowance totalled $84,972,000. That figure represents a very small part of $l,318m. ft represents between 6 per cent and 7 per cent of that amount. Yet. we are told by the Government that the field in which the impact of inflation is greatest is not that of consumer expenditure but that of investment. 
 That is one field. This is the rather curious doctrine by which we try to draw a distinction between what is called cost inflation on the one hand and what is called demand inflation on the other hand. 1 suggest that a bridge exists between cost inflation and demand inflation. The bridge is a monetary factor. Money becomes available to finance the propositions in which investment is sought. This is where the question of investment becomes significant. 1 think it is rather intriguing to have heard in this House the ministerial statement before the sitting was suspended. If the word 'productivity' had been omitted, the statement would have taken half as long to deliver as it did. In other words, throughout its entirety the statement was studded with references to productivity. 1 think that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  who presented the statement, concedes the fact that productivity in the long run depends upon matching machinery and manpower better in the future than has been done in the past. 
Anybody who looks analytically at the history of investment in Australia for, say, the last 10 years or 12 years will note that on the surface a higher proportion of our total gross national product has been devoted to investment than is the case in most countries. Nevertheless, Australia has had a very poor performance in what is called productivity. Surely this is agreed. Looking at the history of the so called investment allowance, one should be very dubious whether it really achieved anything in the years in which it was operative. The investment allowance, while it has been operative, has cost this country in excess of S200m. The criticism which was made from the Opposition side on the last occasion when this matter was before the House - and I think that it is still relevant - is that because this allowance was applied in the manufacturing field it was applied indiscriminately to. for instance, an aircraft factory or a brewery. The allowance was applied with the same force to a factory turning out taps for a brewery as it was to a factory turning out machine tools for industry. This allowance was a blunt unselective instrument. 
I suggest that in regard lo Australia's development at the moment we are using blunt unselective instruments to solve the problems that beset us. I was intrigued to hear the remarks last Thursday of the Government  speaker  who followed the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during the debate on the economy in which the Opposition sought to record a vote of no confidence in the Government. That  speaker  said: 'The changes are upon us'. I submit that the changes have been upon us for a long time. We have allowed our economy simply to drift along. The investment allowance device has been one such feature of this drift. No objection is raised to subsidies provided they are revealed as subsidies and are not masquerading as tax deductions - a subterfuge - as has been the case here, applied indiscriminately to anything that the Government chooses to call manufacturing' industry. If one considers the sums of money which have been spent in that direction, again one wonders whether the $200m that this allowance has cost might have been better applied directly to specific industries rather than to the isolated examples that we see. 
The other matter to which I wish to draw attention concerns the identity of those who have gained the greatest advantage from this investment allowance. Let me illustrate the total picture that is obtained by reading carefully the statistics that are contained in the forty-ninth report of the Commissioner of Taxation for 1969-70. During the year 1967-68, the total expenditure on new plant purchased was $1,318,033,000. Let us now separate from the statistics those companies which had incomes in excess of $2m. They are fairly substantial entities. One finds that in this field of investment allowance - and this represents the 'impact backwards' with respect to what was spent on new plant - fewer than 200 Austraiian companies which had taxable incomes in excess of $2m obtained approximately one half of all payments under the heading of 'investment allowance'. 
Surely one of the problems in Australian industry today is monopolisation. A gentleman from the Press asked me this evening, prior to the suspension of the sitting, what I thought about the noble stand being taken by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd in refusing to push up the price of steel. Well, I think that the company has not done a bad job in the past particularly if we look at what its profits were for the previous year. 1 said: 'At least it is able to take the high and noble stand because it can adjust its prices as it sees fit. But if a worker in the same industry seeks a wage adjustment he must go through a very elaborate process to achieve that end'. 1 ask honourable members opposite seriously whether they think that companies which have obtained the maximum advantage from this investment allowance would have been less inclined to invest had the investment concession not been available. I doubt it. That is why I doubt the reverse of the process by which this incentive is being removed now. It is by this action that the Government says it will dampen down substantially the areas of the economy to which it has directed attention. This is why I wish to direct attention to 1 or 2 other items which are contained in the aggregate statistics which appear at page 59 of the report of the Commissioner of Taxation to which I have referred already. 
I will mention 2 items that 1 think are quite significant and which are in my opinion more substantial than the question of the investment allowance. I point out again that for the year 1967-68 the cost of the investment allowance was $84,972,000. In the same year the amount that was allowed for deductions for interest paid on debentures was approximately $125m. The total interest allowed to the same companies was $685,154,000. All I am suggesting is that if the Government sought to abate the effects of inflation in any degree - and I suggest that the Government has gone about the exercise too bluntly for its actions to be realistic - the investment allowance was probably the most piffling provision on which the Government could have chosen to launch an attack. That seems to me to be almost contradictory, when the Treasurer is doing something that he says will dampen down activity in new fixed capital investment other than building. I think that at times in some of these economic debates we almost get to the point of absurdity. Surely nobody argues that it is better for the economy in total that it should produce less rather than more, yet we go fairly close to that kind of proposition with some of the shallow and shabby sorts of analyses that have been made in economic statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and others in the last few weeks. 
Surely the Australian economy is no different from most others; after all, we are short of total resources and this goes all the way from skilled manpower to capital resources. Therefore what we should be doing is trying to channel what we have into the most socially and economically useful areas. The two things that we are short of in this country are skilled manpower and capital resources. I believe that the kind of policies that have been pursued here have sealed skilled manpower off in industries from which it could have been released and has left it in- short supply in places where it is needed. Surely nobody wants to expand the activities of a brewery, for example, and yet this is the kind of thing that happened when the Government's across-the-board investment allowance gave the same sort of assistance to the Carlton and United Brewery Limited in installing new plant as it did to the Goverment Aircraft Factories when that organisation put in new plant. Surely the Government could have realised the relative priorities instead of using the income tax structure in the crude sort of way that it did - which meant that it had lo be applied to everybody. I submit that that is a very crude way indeed to handle this kind' of exercise. 
I think most people would agree that we have in Australia a higher concentration of monopolistic or oligopolistic companies than any other country; yet this sort of policy perpetuates such a system. We hear tentative suggestions that we ought lo do something about tariffs or that we ought to look at this industry rather than that one. Perhaps we should, but I submit equally that if we are to give concessions of this kind - and I repeat that there is nothing wrong with subsidies provided they are open and revealed rather than closed and concealed - it must be conceded that the socalled investment allowance has been a concealed subsidy indiscriminately applied, for example, to the brewery as to the aircraft factory, with no selectivity whatever in its operation. I repeat the question: If the Government intends to continue providing subsidies in the field of primary production- why extend them to the Collins Street farmer and the Pitt Street farmer who are helping to push up the value of land and also, of course, to push up the rate of interest at the same time. 
I have some further points that I wish to make. Why not have a holiday in long term debenture interest, especially when we see  Mr Ansett,  for example, advertising tor money for Ansett Airlines of Australia at  9i  per cent. Where will that finish? It will finish in higher air fares, which will flow through to Trans Australia Airlines because of the so-called two airline system. These surely are the kind of things that should be examined by this Government. I have heard it bandied about that the cancellation of the investment allowance will save $25m during the remainder of the financial year. One must look at this in perspective. What is $25m in an economy that is running at the rale of S32,000m annually? I do not think my friend the Treasurer would maintain that he is accurate enough to operate within a margin of $25m in an economy as large as ours. I think this is part of the public confusion. I said the other night that most people are out of their depth once they get into figures of this magnitude and they are as impressed if the Government is saving S25m as they would be if it were saving $2, 500m. 1 suggest that this move will have no effect whatever on the rate of investment in Australia, and if it does have any effect in my view it will have an effect at the level of the small company rather than the large company, and this is surely another reason why there should be a reappraisal of the situation. 
I have come to the conclusion recently, after one or two attempts to get assistance for people from the Australian Development Bank, that we do not have enough expertise in these places to understand some of the demands that are being made upon them, and to understand that there are plenty of agile business people in Australia today at a stage of relatively small capitalisation who can make a success of their businesses. But as one of them said to me: 'It is easier to get a loan of Sim than it is to get a loan of $100,000.' I believe that this is often the case. If one goes along to a bank and pretends that one has a large business one has a better chance of success than if one is small. Yet it is in some of these smaller fields, rather than in the big company field, that the future of Australian industry lies. Certainly we must have some big companies but we have to decide whether there is room for three or four or whether there may be room for only one or two. But there is still plenty of room for the small business capitalised at perhaps less than $100,000 or $250,000. 
As I say, we do not oppose this measure although we did not support it when it was introduced and we do not support it now. I repeat that I cannot see any difference, if the Government intends to allow depreciation as  a  taxable item, in allowing 100 per cent of the item the day the plant is installed and allowing it as some rate over the life of the plant, lt ought to be  a  matter between the person who buys the plant and the Commissioner of Taxation. I object to this practice of allowing more than the capital cost of an item and this is basically what the investment allowance does, lt is the equivalent of a direct subsidy to the people who install the plant, if that is regarded as a logical way of doing things, it is not my idea of logic. I think it is unfair and inequitable and is adding to the concentraton of industry in Australia in relatively few areas rather than it being more broadly based- 
We have plenty of subsidies in Australia and some of them are, perhaps, wrong. To my mind this one was wrong because it went with the greatest force to those who needed it least. Its cost was not revealed at all. It was hidden within the confused intricacies of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
1 am not arguing about primary production: that is not the question. I would not apply that decision to people who are genuine farmers. This is one of the matters which Government supporters have to examine seriously. I conclude by saying that it is better that we do not have this investment allowance in the field of manufacturing. I have grave doubts whether it will reach the real problem besetting the Australian economy at the moment, that is the distortion in the pattern of our investment not in the factories but in what goes into the factories. That is the area that has been lagging and it has been lagging because it has been too easy for some areas to get money and too hard for others. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Within the operations of the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States is the Commonwealth responsible for what might broadly be described as debt management? Is the practice of rebate washing a highly organised and substantially profitable affair at public expense, which distorts the proper working of the remnants of what might be called a bond market? In the statement issued by the Treasurer yesterday on recent loan operations why did he seek to pass some of the consequences of debt mismanagement to the States? 
This Bill proposes to make some alteration to the financial arrangements of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. Before I go on to comment on those arrangements 1 would like to draw the attention of the  House to some of the things in the accounts of this rather lucrative piece of state enterprise. 1 draw attention to the most recent annual report and balance sheet for the year ended 3 1st March 1970 which discloses that from a gross revenue of approximately $34m the undertaking made a profit of almost $1 Im. In the previous year it had not done very rauch worse than that: on a turnover of $29m the profit was close to St Ora. This undertaking was established in 1946 by a Labor Government and during the 25 years since then it has had advanced to it a sura of approximately Si 7.5m from the Treasury and has in the same period accumulated assets of some 360m. This shows that the profits have been carefully ploughed back into the enterprise and have built it up to a state where nearly $40m worth of profits has gone into the accumulation of assets in this undertaking. In his second reading speech the 
Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  said: 
. it is proposed that the Financial relations between the Commission and the Commonwealth be altered to provide: 
that the nature of the Commonwealth's investment in the Commission be varied - from interest-bearing Treasury advances to capital; 
As I pointed out, at the date of the last balance sheet advances from the Treasury amounted to $17,544,000. The Minister continued: 
that the Commission's income be subject to income tax; 
I take it he means that the Commission's profit will be subject to income tax. I want to say more about that in a moment. He continued: 
that in lien of the interest that has been paid in the past on Treasury advances, a dividend be paid each year on the capital. A commencing rate of 7i per cent is proposed: and 
that the Commission's requirements for new capital investment, additional to retained profits, be provided from the Budget or from authorised borrowings. 
I want to say something about each of those provisions. The first seems to be a fine distinction in that what has been advanced from the Treasury will now be regarded as the permanent capital of the undertaking and it will be doubled by transferring another $17. 5m approximately from the general reserves of the undertaking, which aggregate $38,628,000. That seems to be a piece of bookkeeping rather than anything very fundamental. 
The second provision - that the Commission's income be subject to income tax - appears to be letting the left hand of the Government know now what the right hand has been doing. Sometimes these cosy little enterprises get locked away on their own and nobody takes very much notice of them. I must confess that until I came to examine this balance sheet I had not realised how successful the enterprise has been in recent years. Assuming it continues to make a profit in the aggregate of something like Slim - presumably it will be taxed as though h was a company and will pay company tax at the rate of 47±c in every $1 - there will be taken from the revenue of the undertaking something like  $9m,  which will go into consolidated revenue. Again I suppose the aggregate situation is not very much different. In recent times payments have been made annually to the Treasury of sums representing interest charged on the amounts advanced from the Treasury. For the year ended 31st March 1970 interest on Treasury advances for international telegraph and telephone services was $605,000 whilst in respect of coastal radio services it was $206,000, making a total of $811,000 interest paid to the Treasury on a capital of $17. 5m. This seems to represent an interest rate that year of something less than 5 per cent. This year it is proposed that the interest will be treated as a dividend and it is suggested that the commencing rate shall be 74- per cent, presumably on the total capital and not only on the amount advanced from the Treasury. This will mean that on a capital of $35m, the dividend will be somewhere in the region of $3m. 
I am pleased to see the final provision that any new capital invested is still to be subject to ministerial control and must be provided from the Budget or from what are described as authorised borrowings. The point to which I want to draw attention is that under 1 clause in the Bill the Minister is supposed to set the charges as low as possible. It seems to me that if on a gross turnover of approximately $3 3m you make a profit of Slim, the charges are scarcely as low as they could be. That appears to be a margin of something of the order of 33£ per cent on the turnover of the undertaking. Whether there are good and sufficient reasons for charging that rate I do not know. If one looks at the statistics that are contained at the end of the report, and they are quite considerable, the balance between what goes out of Australia and what comes in is surprising. To take 2 examples, in relation to the international telegraph services 61,764000 items emanated from Australia and 67,468,000 came into Australia. In relation to Press telegrams there was again quite a balance, 3,062,000 items going out of Australia and 3,305,000 items coming in. ft seems to me to be one of those situations in which it is a bit difficult to tell where the final cost of these things falls. 
Let us assume for arguments sake that the Minister was conducting the overseas telecommunications service on the basis that it was merely charging what the services cost. Where would the advantage of that $llm go? I suggest it is not very easy to find out and that this is the same sort of difficulty facing the Government in some of the measures it is taking at the moment to halt the serious situation it seems to think the nation has fallen into financially. Where is the final cost? Would the cost of newspapers be any less, for arguments sake, if the cost of their telegraph services were reduced by approximately one-third? Would we be merely providing a social service to people who ring each other up internationally? 
On the score of international telephone services, in 1970 4,310,000 calls were made from Australia and 4,900,000 came into Australia. How many of these calls were business calls, how many were social or pleasure calls and so on? Of course, we now have international television programmes which have great potentiality. So far this type of service has been a fairly small item. In fact, in 1970 there were only 13,026 paid minutes of television programmes that went from Australia and 2,268 paid minutes of programmes that came to Australia by means of this service. If one adds the awful aggregate of what we now get by way of television programmes each week or each day on our national and commercial channels we can see that the international television programme service is a very small part of what is shown on television in this country. Of course, this service has great potentiality. 
On the other hand, it would seem to me that there must be some services that perhaps in a sense are of the non-commercial kind. It may be that the profit that is being made on one side of an undertaking will ultimately cover expansion in other directions. I was gratified around Christmas time to watch on the national channel a documentary programme about the universe and inter-communication that takes place between the moon, the stars and so on. This programme showed how important was the work carried out in Australia. I think this was a great tribute to the Australian scientists and to people who work on such installations as the radio telescope near Parkes. I think we all watched the last journey of man to the moon. However, I do not think it was generally understood that, in the previous journey of man to the moon which almost ended in disaster, if it had not been for the facilities in Australia the journey probably would have been a complete disaster, resulting in the loss of the lives of the people in the space craft. 
These transactions are a bit hard to find in the balance sheet. I must say that I am pleased that this kind of undertaking is a public enterprise. I think one of the greatest abominations that we have inflicted upon ourselves has been to allow the resources and talent which are in the television industry to fall so much into commercial hands rather than the hands of a public enterprise. One realises the great potentialities that exist in transmitting programmes around the world. I think it is at least signicant that many of these important devices are held in the form of a public undertaking where at least there can be some degree of public and social responsibility in their conduct rather than the operations being directed merely to making a profit for commercial operators. 
Finally I would like to deal briefly with the rather curious device that sometimes creeps into national accounts. 1 refer to the situation that arises when a statutory corporation wants to make a profit and regards its undertaking as comparable to a business undertaking. The corporation goes through the fiction of filing an income tax return with the Commissioner of Taxation. The Commissioner computes a profit and he is paid by the corporation, like everyone else. Part of the funds of the corporation are taken from where they were generated and put into Consolidated Revenue. The same sort of thing is done with Qantas Airways Ltd, Trans- Australia Airlines Ltd and a number of other undertakings. Of course, perhaps unlike honourable members on the Government side, I am not such a believer in the virtue of profits. I think it is a far better test if the undertaking merely covers me costs of its operation and that its efficiency should not be judged by whether it makes a profit. Somehow the Government has tried to put a measuring stick upon the degree of efficiency of the undertaking by setting a sum like 7£ per cent as the minimum dividend it thinks the corporation ought to pay. I might say that this 7i per cent is calculated on a watered basis because only $ 17.5m originally came from the Treasury and the other $17. 5m came out of accumulated profits. But in the future the profit is to be computed not only on the original capital but also on the ploughed back profits. That was the sort of argument we engaged in yesterday when talking about the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Apparently this is not done only by private undertakings; the Government is inclined to play some sort of game. I suppose some theorists will argue - and this is one of the debatable points that always arise - that if one is in an industry that is absorbing a fair amount of capital if the total capital in a community is short and the interest rate tends to regulate whether capital goes here rather than there, one can get some sort of false costing if one treats government undertakings of a commercial variety as opposed to some other kind of undertakings in a different way when it comes to the cost of its capital. 
Certainly, there can be cases where, in my view, it is justifiable to charge interest on capital that perhaps has come from government sources. We get certain absurdities in comparative costs if we compare - this is the example that comes most readily to mind - the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme, where the majority of capital has come out of the revenue of the Commonwealth, with the Electricity Commission of Victoria, which has had to borrow most of its capital on the public market. It would certainly be absurd to compare the price of electricity from the Snowy Mountains scheme with, for example, electricity generated by the Electricity Commission of Victoria. We have the situation where one undertaking obtains its capital free and the other had to pay  5  per cent,  6  per cent or  7  per cent for its capital. We have some curious distortions in comparative costings. I cannot say that that argument is valid when we have what is really a monopoly service and where noone else provides a similar service. If I want to make an international telephone call there is only one way in which I can do it. This is by way of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. There is no other comparable service. I think that sometimes these doctrines get curiously mixed together when it comes to the sort of propositions we have. No doubt the Government has been a little alarmed about the rate of return in this industry and therefore it thinks that some of this ought to be returned to the community by way of taxation. I would have thought that the Government would have thought this through a little more deeply and decided that the return to the community might have been of a different kind. The return to the community could have been in the form of lower prices for the services that were performed. However, that is not the choice that has been made. 
As I said earlier, the Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bill.  1  have chosen merely to point out one or two of the principles that seem to me to be involved and perhaps have not been thought through. I also wanted to pay a tribute, which I think is deserved, to the services performed by the staff of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission in particular in the international communication service. 
In the absence of a colleague I have been asked to indicate that the Opposition does not intend to oppose the passage of this Bill. It is one of those pieces of legislation that comes regularly before this House for renewal. As the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said this Bill will amend the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act 1956-1970, the operation of which was terminated by proclamation  on 30th November 1970 and extends bounty payments at the new rates until 31st December 1973. The amount involved is fairly small and as I have already indicated the Opposition supports this measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I address to the Minister for Defence a question which is supplementary to the one asked by my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Are any retrenchments likely in the immediate future at the Government Aircraft Factory, Port Melbourne? Will he consult with his colleague, the Minister for Supply, in an endeavour to bring stability to this vital but currently declining aircraft industry? 
The Opposition is not opposing this Bill which authorises the borrowing of money by the Commonwealth Government and the lending of those moneys to the Australian Wheat Board. Sanction is sought for the borrowing of $250m although the expected shortfall is some §190m. To be on the safe side it was decided that the Commonwealth Government should be authorised to borrow up to S250m to make the loan to the Board. This exceeds the Board's current estimate of the amount required under the guarantee but as such estimates are subject to substantial variations the amount specified in the Bill provides a margin in case the estimates prove too low. It seems to me that that kind of attitude is somewhat at variance with the policies recently being pursued by the Government whereby some bodies which think they have plenty of things to do have been told to cut down on their activity. However, the amount specified in the Bill provides a margin in case the estimate proves too low. 
I want to say something about the operations of the Wheat Board and I must confess that I have been astonished at the paucity of the information that is available about the finances of the Board. Today there was tabled in the House the Seventh Annual Report for 1969-70 of the Australian Honey Board, a Board of much less magnificence than the Wheat Board. On pages 20 and 21 of that report are published accounts, an income and expenditure statement and a balance sheet of the Honey Board. But no document which can be called the accounts or balance sheet of the Australian Wheat Board is available. The last annual report that is available for the Wheat Board is for 1968-69. Its transactions are on a calendar year basis rather than a financial year. It is true that the 1968-69 report covers accounts from 1st December 1968 to 30th November 1969 but within all the interesting information and statistics that are available there are details only of the 'supplies and disappearance' - a rather curious sort of title for a table. In appendix 8 of that report is information concerning supplies and disappearance of wheat coming into the Board's hands. In 1968-69 the supplies were 515 million bushels of wheat, and, when it is remembered that the selling price is in the region of $1.45 to $1.50 a bushel, that is indicative of the magnitude of the Board's transactions. 
In appendix 10 is a record of principal operating costs from the inception of the Board to the 1968-69 pool. Taking the last available year, 1968-69, this shows that handling and storage costs, including depot and terminal costs, were $38,595,000 in 1968-69 and that the Board also paid freight totalling $94,092,000. I submit that it is a curious kind of organisation which publishes no annual statement of its finances when those finances in some years are of the magnitude of $ 1,000m. I examined the Auditor-General's reports in seeking some illumination of this matter and I had to go back to his report for the year 1968-69. Paragraph 191 on page 200 of that report states: 
Since the commencement of the stabilisation plan in 1946-47, payments from the Wheat Prices Stabilisation Fund to the Australian Wheat Board for distribution to growers have approximated $338m, of which $173m was derived from levies on growers, $10m net income from invested funds- 
To get $10m from invested funds one would need to have a capitalisation of something over $100m, and yet nowhere is there, as with the Honey Board, any statement of assets and liabilities of the Wheat Board. The sentence in the report continues:  and SI 55 million paid from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
The report then adds: 
The full cost of the stabilisation plan since 1st July 1962 has been met by the Commonwealth. 
I am told that as at 1st December 1970, which is the beginning of the financial year for the Wheat Board, the Board, which has the responsibility of disposing of the entire wheat crop, had undisposed stocks amounting to 267 million bushels. It  is  expected that a further 251 million bushels will come into storage during the year, leaving for disposal total stocks of about 5.1 8 million bushels. I am not interested this afternoon to argue the pros and cons of the wheat industry. I was interested to read that in an address delivered at the Australian National University on 9th February to the First National Agricultural Outlook Conference the new Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said: 
the wheat industry has had the courage to devise and accept a system of discipline designed to limit its production to more realistic levels. 
At least that has been achieved in the last year or two by a system of quotas, the merits of which I do not intend to go into. This year we face the prospect of having to dispose of about 500 million bushels - 60 million bushels locally and between 250 million and 300 million bushels externally. There could be a carryover of at least 100 million bushels and as much as 266 million bushels. Everything depends on the level of export sales. According to the 1968-69 annua! report of the Wheat Board - the latest available - in that year the People's Republic of China took 28.2 per cent of total exports, Japan 19.7 per cent and the United Kingdom 14.4 per cent. Between them those 3 countries accounted for more than 60 per cent of total exports of wheat. As we ail know, sales to China are rather hazardous. They are on a more or less hit and miss basis rather than on the basis of a long term contract. 
The way in which transactions are financed is of some significance in the overall finances of the Government. Some mystery surrounds the Wheat Board's transactions. The Treasury Information Bulletin for January 1971 - the latest issue available - stales: 
Excluding Treasury Notes issued to the Reserve Bank to finance advances to the Australian Wheat Board, the net increase in Treasury Notes on issue during the first half of 1970-71 was $600 million or $533 million more than in the corresponding period last year. 
That situation could have some significance in the existing inflationary circumstances. What is not disclosed at this stage is who took up the treasury notes. Whether they were taken up within the banking system or directly by the Reserve Bank makes some significant difference. The Treasury Information Bulletin continues: 
Other financing transactions in Australia yielded $20 million, leaving $508 million to be financed by drawing on cash balances and borrowing from the Reserve Bank. In the first half of 1969-70 an amount of $32 million was available from other financing transactions, leaving $829 million to be financed by the use of cash balances and borrowings from the Reserve Bank. 
The document contains a table showing how this money was expended and where it was expected to come from. The table contains this rather mysterious item: 
1969-70 

 S million 
Advance to Australian Wheat Board - Treasury Notes issued to Reserve Bank 184 Less net Commonwealth Advance . . - 184 
Apparently the transaction was neutralised. But this is not quite the picture one gets when one reads the 1969-70 report of the Reserve Bank of Australia which contains under the heading 'Rural Credits Department' this statement: 
Seasonal finance provided by the Bank's Rural Credits Department to assist marketing, processing or manufacture of primary produce reached a peak of $622m in March 1970: this was $79m higher than the previous year's peak in April 1969. 
The increase in peak advance; was duc mainly to the financing of large stocks of wheat on account of the Australian Wheat Board. This has been occasioned by a carryover of 267 million bushels from the 1968-69 Pool and quota receivals of 310 million bushels from the 1969-70 crop. 
A sharp fall in outstanding advances occurred at end-March when indebtedness amounting to $250m in the Australian Wheat Board's 1968-69 Pool accounts was repaid. The repayment was made possible by a  Commonwealth  Government loan to the Wheat Board. 
By the Bill now before us we are making a further loan. The Bill deals with the transactions of the Wheat Board, which will no doubt be recorded in the Reserve Bank's annual report to be published in 4 or 5 months time. In its report for 1969-70 the Reserve Bank states: 
Export proceeds are being used to repay the loan. At 30th June 1970 the Department's outstanding advances were $358m compared with $480m a year earlier. 
A major part of the transactions relate to wheat. The report continues: 
In addition to wheat, the Department provided finance for other commodities including dairy produce, canned fruits, barley, cotton, rice, oats, eggs, superphosphate and grass seeds. 
But none of these transactions was as important as those of the Wheat Board. Surely we are entitled to a comprehensive statement on the finances of the Wheat Board. Every other government body tables an annual report in this House. When I asked in the Bills and Papers Office about annual reports of the Wheat Board 1 was told that about 6 copies are delivered each year in case any should be required but that the report is not tabled in the Parliament, as are reports of other government bodies or agencies. The Wheat Board is financed by the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth meets a large part of the Board's administrative costs. Goodness knows what they amount to. If annual accounts were available we would know. There should be some proper recording of transactions involving an expenditure of almost $100m on freight and $35m on handling. I seek in no way to reflect on the integrity of the Wheat Board. For all I know it does a very good job but certainly it does its job in a very curious manner. 1 am surprised at the difficulty one has in obtaining access to information. Of course, the rate at which this sort of repayment is made as the sales are finally made overseas can have what are called lead and lag impacts upon the Australian economy. For instance, when wheat is produced in Australia and goes into the custody of the Wheat Board, an advance payment is made which enables the grower to buy the goods and services that he wants for next year's crop and to maintain his family and so on. But from the time he receives payment until the Board recoups its payment by sales, of which an amount of S4 out of every $5 has to come from overseas sales, there can be some curious internal effects. Part of the effects is concealed by the kind of duck-shoving that occurs because transactions to the Reserve Bank have to be completed in 12 months. Because sometimes the Board takes more than 12 months to recoup this transaction we get the curious circumstance of a loan being made to the Wheat Board. In this event the Commonwealth Government negotiates a different kind of transaction with the Reserve Bank. 
I used to be told years and years ago that when Reserve Bank credit is used some nasty terms such as 'using the printing press' are applied by some people to the practice. At least we were led to believe that resort to Reserve Bank credit had an expansionary effect on the total economy. We have become much more sophisticated these days. Whereas we used to charge a nominal rate of about 1 per cent on treasury bills we now have created a nice new thing called the money market whch places treasury bills at something like 6 per cent - I think the current rate is 5.725 per cent or some such odd figure. The Treasurer quoted the rate the other evening. When treasury notes are taken up by people who would otherwise have spent that money somewhere else it can abate what otherwise might have been an inflationary effect, although a little glory can be given to those who own treasury notes because they get nearly 6 per cent over a 90-day period for what is virtually a riskless asset. 
This kind of cost goes into the transactions of the Wheat Board because moneys that are advanced or loaned - by the left hand to the right hand or whatever way you like to put it - carry interest at 5i per cent this year as against 5 per cent previously. We are told that the Wheat Board also engages in a little bit of money lending. The Board charges interest on long term transactions for the sale of wheat. Again, no-one knows how much is received from this sort of transaction. I would like to have some explanation of the mysterious item of $10m from investment income. Although this body has a capital source of $100m it seems that it is being very generously treated when it is told that it will be allowed an amount of up to $250m when in fact it apparently wants only $190m. I submit that there ought to be much more information available than there is about these transactions. After all, the Board is handling sales of something like 300 million bushels of wheat. The wheat crop has been greater than that in past years. This year the intake is about 310 million bushels. It seems to me that for the Board not to publish anything in the form of a public balance sheet is wrong even by the canons of the Government which in any case are sometimes a bit vague. I submit that it is time that this sort of mystery was cleared up. 
Apparently the Auditor-General does audit the accounts of the Australian Wheat Board but unlike everything else there is no statement of them in his report. All of us know of the annual report of the Australian Meat Board, the annual report of the Australian Honey Board, which I have already mentioned, and the annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board but we do not have an annual report of the financial transactions of the Australian Wheat Board. We do not nave anything about the Board except a statistical analysis. I hope that those who are responsible for such information - and I submit it is the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in the long run - will look at the odd implications in the accounts. I hope that we will be presented with the full financial transactions. I hope that we will be given the answers to questions such as how many people are employed at home and abroad, what the annual salary bill is, what the fees of the directors or Board members are, how people go on journeys overseas and how much they cost. I have no doubt that wheat could not be sold overseas unless the Board had some agents overseas. But surely the Board should release a comprehensive report on its activities in which it could reproduce the annual accounts of this vast undertaking. 1 realise that these administrative arrangements are certainly not the responsibility of the Treasurer. After all, he is simply the benevolent gentleman who is giving the Wheat Board all it wants and a little bit more. This is much better treatment than most people in the Australian economy have had in recent times. I hope that the Treasurer will pass on to his colleague the Minister for Primary Industry the intimation that I for one find the transactions of the Board a little obscure and mysterious. I do not suggest in any way any defalcations; that is the last thing I am suggesting. However, I am submitting that a Parliament that has to act responsibly ought to have much more information available to it about the transactions of the Australian Wheat Board. If we had the details of those transactions I am sure that our job to illuminate or separate the mysterious overall financial transactions, which the Treasurer has as his responsibility at the moment, would be made easier. I. have not dwelt to a great extent on this subject today because this is the first occasion on which I have had to handle this kind of measure. I might say that I was astonished when 1 could not obtain the last annual accounts of the Wheat Board, lt has taken me nearly a day to find what information I have offered to the House and this to me is a most unsatisfactory state of affairs. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
In regard to kangaroo killings has any attempt been made, with or without Stale co operation, to establish a permissible cropping rate which is regarded as a first principle in game management. 
If not, will consideration be given to the curtailment of commercial shooting until a cropping rate is established. 
Are transect flights a reliable method of counting kangaroos. 
If so, why was this method of counting discontinued. 
Did earlier CSIRO research in certain areas in central Australia and New South Wales reveal an alarming reduction in the number of kangaroos in the research area. 
ls this type of research still carried out by the CSIRO. 
 I am sorry that I cannot congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on his first speech in that position. I am usually charitable. I should like to refer him to the subject matter of this discussion, namely: 
The lack of machinery for government consultation and public information on Commonwealth, State and regional finances and functions. 
The Opposition chose to raise this matter of public importance the day following the Premiers' assembly in Canberra. One would have thought that there might have been some gratification on the part of the Government and all the Premiers about what had been done, but it is our view that, as usual, it was a palliative only and did not represent any grappling with what are the significant problems involved. It is true that what was given yesterday will put the State Budgets in a position of less deficit than previously but if the current deficit is to be of the magnitude of $70m still, surely the sort of question that should be asked is: Does anybody believe that there are suitable fields where State and local expenditures should be reduced? Most people would take the opposite view and in a moment I want to give one or two examples. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  quoted the experience of the Victorian Railways. I should like to quote a small extract from an official publication, the 'Victorian Railways Newsletter' of March 1971. I refer to the part of the article dealing with the antique rollingstock which provides a service for internal passengers. The article states: 
Victoria's old metropolitan carriages carry less passengers and weigh more than their modern counterparts. 
The extra electrical energy required to drive them represented wasted money each  year,  as most of the power is used to move the weight of the train, not the passengers. 
I submit that this is the kind of situation we have in Australia at the moment. This state of affairs shows an inability to plan. I contrast this with the kind of attitude which  is  shown in an article in a publication from West Germany entitled 'International Seals', which I receive regularly. This article was written under the heading of The great train renaissance'. There is no great train renaissance in Australia, least of all in Victoria. 1 think most honourable members were given a copy of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into .Education in South Australia. In paragraph 15.17 of this report Professor Karmel, the  Chairman  of the Committee, and his associates pointed out: 
Australia as a whole devoted 4.2 per cent of gross  national  product to education in 1969-70. The above argument suggests that this figure would have lo rise to about 6.7 per cent by 1981, if a programme of educational expansion similar to that suggested by the Committee was adopted throughout Australia. 
In case honourable members are not quite aware of what a rise in expenditure on education from 4.2 per cent to 6.7 per cent by 1981 would mean, I point out that given constant prices the annual expenditure on education would have to increase by about S750m within the next 10-year period, ls that the sort of vision that was revealed yesterday at the meeting of the Premiers? I submit that it is not. If the Treasurer says complacently that there is no discussion of these problems I think he is living in a veritable ivory tower. 
In  Australia at the moment inevitably we have, rightly or wrongly, a concentration of population in the capital cities. If we were to draw a circle with a radius of 50 miles around Sydney and another circle the same distance around Melbourne we would encompass  in  the 2 areas half the population of Australia. Surely the Government ought to be concerned about the problems of where people are. It is at this third level - the neglected level or the poor level of local government responsibility - that new kinds of mechanisms have to be evolved. This will not be an easy problem to solve. I do not think it will be easy to solve because in one respect the local government authorities as we  find  them are devolved authorities or creatures of Stale -legislation. Part of the breaking of the nexus lies with the States themselves. Nevertheless, some additional mechanisms have to be evolved. The Leader of the Opposition laid out some of these mechanisms fairly clearly. We have plenty of patterns. If we look at the document 
Commonwealth Payments to or for the States' which is published annually and if we consider the variety of heads under which grants in one form or another are paid to the States - conditionally, unconditionally, for a special purpose and so on - we begin to realise that the situation has reached an intolerable position and that some new kinds of mechanism still have to be evolved. 
J commend to those who are interested in this sort of matter the series of Reith Lectures which was delivered by Ronald Schon over the BBC in the latter part of 1970. I would like to quote part of what he said because I think it will highlight the sort of situation and paralysis that we have in Australia. Ronald Schon said: 
One negative, but not entirely inappropriate way of looking at government is as a series of memorials lo old problems. 
We do not want memorials to old problems; we want a creative approach to new problems, to existing problems and to problems which will become crises if we do not do something about grappling with them. The other passage which I wish to quote is as follows: 
Our organisational map is perpetually mismatched to the problems that we think are worth solving. 
Surely this is the situation that faces the Government starkly in Australian federation at the moment. If the Government wants to preserve the federal system, as honourable members on the other side of the House claim they want to preserve - a situation which constitutionally I believe at the moment there is no prospect of departing from - the Government should make all of the elements in that arrangement or compact powerful as far as its responsibilities are concerned, resourceful as far as its capacity to carry out those responsibilities are concerned and above all responsive to the needs of the people. 
I have heard it predicted - and I believe that this is not altogether wrong - that there is so much stirring going on within the inner areas of the great cities in particular - and I presume to some extent this also applies to Adelaide and Brisbane - because of the inadequacy of the pattern that very serious problems will be posed in the future. Part of the difficulties are in the inequities of the financial resources available to local authorities. The inequity of resources and the inadequacy of these resources make for great inefficiency in the implementation of functions. 1 believe this to be one of the most critical problems facing the Australian community at the moment. Nothing was done at the Premiers Conference yesterday to resolve this problem in any sense. The Treasurer rather blithely seems to think that yesterday was another famous victory for democracy, the rights of the States and so on. Indeed, 1 think he is whistling in the dark. Above all he is lamentably ignorant of what are the really persuasive problems that are disturbing the Australian community at the moment. I hope that at least the matter of public importance we have raised will persuade the Treasurer to do something between now, the Loan Council meeting and the framing of the next Federal Budget. What we need to do is to realise that there are not only short term problems but above all long term problems which involve a fair amount of social analysis in order to encompass any sort of successful social solution to them. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Does he view with any concern the takeover bid by Philip Morris (Australia) Ltd, a United States controlled company, for Lindeman (Holdings) Ltd, a predominantly Australian owned enterprise? Is he aware that the takeover offer involves a cash phis share offer, the cash component of which is some $15m? Is he further aware that Philip Morris proposes to secure the cash through Euro-dollar sources at borrowing rates below those prevailing in Australia, a situation which places takeover bidders with access to foreign funds at an advantage over local bidders? Does not the possibility of such a transaction in these terms point to the need, firstly, for a lowering of interest rate structures in Australia and, secondly, for a revision of the guidelines applying to foreign investment? 
The two measures before us are what could be described as supplementary estimates. They are expenditures which were not foreseen when the Budget was drawn up. Therefore since they cover new purposes an additional parliamentary appropriation is required. The first of the measures deals with ordinary annual services. The second one deals with capital works and various payments that are made by the Commonwealth to the States. The first Bill provides for an additional expenditure of $120,968,000, or nearly $121 m. The other measure dealing with capital works, services and payments to the States makes provision for $32,700,000. In all, the expenditure is about $l53m. As far as the ordinary services are concerned, by far the greatest part of the additional expenditure is to cover wage increases to various employees of the Government departments. Almost $72m of the $120m, or 60 per cent, covers payments such as salaries and allowances for the various departments. 
I want to raise points about one or two other items of expenditure separately. The first thing to which I draw attention is the ease with which the Commonwealth can find additional money as compared with the States in the same circumstances. Noone on this side of the House objects to adequate wages being paid to anybody. We support the principle that if a court makes awards then the Government, like everyone else, is bound to make the payments. The major part of the $120m, or about $72m of it, covers that item. I understand that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is out of the country at the moment and is unable to be present. We were told by the Treasurer when he introduced the Bills - his first measures as the new Treasurer - as follows: 
As a result of measures taken to reduce Commonwealth expenditure this year, and for other  reasons, it is expected that savings of about $50m will be available in existing appropriations to offset the additional appropriations now proposed. 
In other words, while the Bill seeks an additional $120m, he claims that about $50m will be saved by the measures that were announced some time ago. He said that when additional supplementary estimates were being submitted by the various departments as at December 1970 the projected demands were for a sum of $242m as against the $120m which is now sanctioned. Honourable members are not quite sure what has had to be cut in the process. This was one of the great mysteries surrounding the Government's announcements. lt said that certain savings would be made, without being precise as to where those savings would take place. 
The announcement had not long been made when the Staes had to come seeking additional revenues. They received about $43 m for ordinary purposes and additional grants of about $6m. The main part of the extra revenue given to the States was for the same kind of purpose that we are considering in this case, to cover the increase in wages for employees who are the responsibility of the States. What has happened has been quite devastating, as one can see in Victoria, the State from which I come. Hospital charges to the public will have to go up by between 30 per cent and 50 per cent, which seems to be a very high rate of increase suddenly to be thrust upon those who are unfortunate enough to be ill. In some eases now the weekly cost in public hospitals in Victoria will be in excess of $90. We have heard some complaint here today from one of my colleagues about the pensioners. Their plight is bad enough, but equally bad is the plight of anybody who becomes ill nowadays. A persons on an average income would not have to spend very many weeks in hospital to begin to experience great financial hardship. The various voluntary health schemes do not cover the entire cost. 
The States have to provide for the expenditure of the hospitals. They have very limited resources to call upon. I simply contrast the ease with which the Commonwealth can get additional revenues with the difficulties of the States. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in his Press interview the other day seemed to be appalled by the fact that about $900m will be added to the wages bill in the course of 12 months as a result of the recent wage increases and what are described as flowons to the process. What he does not indicate is that the Commonwealth will get back something like $300m on that $900m in taxation. At the moment the reality is that for every dollar received by a person on the average weekly earnings - about $80 a week - he pays 30 per cent of it straight away in income tax. This can be contrasted with the marginal rate of about 17 per cent 14 years ago when income tax rates were last adjusted. 
My remarks simply show some of the inequities that inflation causes among various sections in the community. Another matter to which I should draw attention and which should be highlighted is that when the Budget is drawn up in August the Treasurer of the day goes through the great pretence of taking all sorts of factors into account and balancing his revenue and expenditure. If there is a difference - a plus or a minus as the case may be - he tries to fit the plus or minus into the overall economic circumstances of the country. I suggest with all respect that the only time to make that sort of prognostication effectively would be about 12 months after the event. When drawing up the Budget for 1972 the Treasurer can tell whether or not he did a really good job when he drew up the Budget in 1971. It is highly pretentious to suggest 12 months in advance, in an economy whose total activity will rise by about $3, 000m in the course of a 12 month period, that one can be accurate within a magnitude of even $100m. 
After all, one per cent of the gross national product these days is a sum in excess of $300m. The additional sum being sought by the Commonwealth in these measures is an aggregate of one-half petcent of the gross national product. These are only additional amounts after some reductions have been made. This is why 1 think it is about time that the sort of nonsense that is reported in the financial Press and other places about the precision of such sums ought to be exploded. I do not believe that anybody could have said sensibly in August 1971 that to have paid an additional sum of $3Om to pensioners would have been regarded as adding to inflation. It is sheer economic humbug to get to that level of precision. If the Government had been giving the pensioners $300m instead of $30m it might have been able to suggest that this was tending towards inflation. But I do not think one could be precise at that level of magnitude either. 
I think  Mr Chifley  had a better sense of perspective in these things than some people seem to have today. After all inflation is no new thing with this Government. Over the last 10 years inflation in this country has reached an average annual rate of  2i  per cent. Why people suddenly become alarmed because in one year it seems that the rate will go from 2i per cent to 34 per cent or 4 per cent I do not think we can measure with precision. The thing that has to be done if inflation continues is to redress the circumstances of the drop-outs in the process. Of course, people on fixed incomes are one such group. As far as this Federal Government is concerned, the other such groups are the States and local authorities, whose burden is made harder by the annual rate of inflation, whether it is 24 per cent, 34 per cent or some greater rate. 
I think that rather than throwing its hands up in horror because the rate has become greater, the Government ought to look occasionally at some of the causes of inflation. At least in the period since the Budget it has been established that there is no doubt that the Budget itself has been one of the greatest causes of inflation in the last 6 months. We also have the rather curious condition that one of the ways that is supposed to halt inflation is to increase the price of money or the interest rate. I am afraid that there is not always a degree of logic in that either. When the rate of interest on gilt edged securities is in excess of or near 7 per cent we also are reaching the heights of absurdity. If the Government thinks that it has to have interest rates at that level, I think it should also be doing something to look after particular sections of the community that cannot stand excessive interest rates. One such section comprises the young people who want to purchase homes. We need to have some selectivity in how the burden of the interest rate is to be distributed among the various sections of the community. 
Other sections also are suffering at the moment. As I pointed out recently, can anybody in Australia at the moment seriously say that in the name of inflation, or in the name of damping down inflation, we should restrict expenditure on education and public health? Yet that is what is being done. I suppose nearly every day every member of this Parliament gets a telephone call from members of a family who have elderly parents and who find that there are not sufficient care institutions in the community for those aged parents to be adequately looked after. They go into hospitals whose fees cannot be paid out of their pension and the rest of the family has to kick in to pay the difference. At least this points to  One  considerable defficiency at the level of public health. There are certainly inadequate provisions for the care of the aged in the community, and in my view it is criminal rather than sound economic sense that suggests that expenditure at that kind of level should be restricted. 
The other tragic levels at which public expenditure could be considerably increased, not decreased, concern education at all levels - pre-school, primary and the various branches of secondary education and what is called tertiary education. The States are not in the fortunate position of being able to plan consecutively ahead for these great needs. The Premiers are to have another . meeting here in a month or so, at which they will be told that a certain sum has been made available to them. I am sure that whatever is the sum given to them it will be deficient by $100m or more, so far as the total needs of the States are concerned. 
There are a couple of items in these expenditures on which I would like more information. They are in the second of the Bills, the one that deals with capital works and services. In the division dealing with the Postmaster-General's Department there is a demand for a sum of $12m. I should have thought that  we  would have at least a little information as to what it is proposed to do with this $12m. The matter to which I refer is division 870, relating to expenditure under the Post and Telegraph Act for payment to the Post Office Trust Account, and the sum is $12m. I know that under the new arrangements that prevail in relation to the finance of the Post Office we no longer have included in the Budget, as we used to have, a breakdown showing on one side how we poured into the Consolidated Revenue Fund all receipts of the Post Office and how on the other side we extracted all the expenditure, when in essence the Budget should have been affected only by the difference between two sides. 
We have what is called a single line entry in the Budget on the Post Office rather than separate detailed estimates. I presume that the $12m is to help fill up the account that has run down. But again I should have thought that there would be more substantial information given about that item. The other matter to which I would draw attention is an item relating to the Department of Civil Aviation under the appropriation for the Department of Works. The sum involved is $6.3m. This item appears on page 7 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 4). The Department of Works apparently is undertaking certain works for the Department of . Civil Aviation for the sum of $6,279,000. 
Some time ago, as one exercise here I compared the expenditure at the Commonwealth level on civil aviation and the Post Office with expenditure at the State level on education and health, and it was surprising to find that on the capital side as much was spent on the Post Office plus civil aviation, both in the hand of the Commonwealth, as was spent by the States at the 2 levels of education and health. I suggested that if the States had had the same sort of financial initiative as has the Commonwealth I would have been very surprised indeed if there had not been more expenditure on education and health and less on civil aviation and the Post Office. But the Commonwealth has the first bite at the cherry. Cherries are not the sorts of things that one talks about favourably these days. Apparently the cherry industry is quite concerned about what the tariff is doing to the industry. But the Commonwealth has the first bite at the total financial cherry, and it is inclined to look after its own interests first rather than to allocate money on the basis of proper planned priorities for total national needs. 
We ought to be given more information at a time when we are being told that building should be restricted. Why should this sum of $6.3m for the Department of Civil Aviation suddenly appear when presumably it had not been foreseen 6 or 7 months ago? This seems to me to be a rather inordinate amount. I have no doubt that it is to help the completion of these great undertakings that are called international air terminals. Whether we want as many of those as we seem to be getting, I am not quite sure; nor am I sure that it is the proper level of priorities either. Be that as it may, I would like to have a little more information given to us. That is all I propose to say on these Bills. Honourable members will have another opportunity to participate in financial debates when the actual estimates for the first 5 months of the financial year 1971-72 come before this House, probably in a week or so. 
1 am pleased to note that the Government is examining what it calls the implications of the recent decision of the High Court. I should like to refer to the observations of the Ligertwood Committee on Taxation. On page xiii of the preface the report states: 
Such schemes, although not illegal, are nevertheless inequitable. The provisions of the Assessment Act and the rates of tax levied from time to time are designed to secure to the Treasury a predetermined quantum of Revenue for carrying on the government of the country; and if, by the ingenious use of the provisions of the Act- 
I suggest here that there has been some ingenious use of the provisions of the Act - and of the general law, a significant number of taxpayers are able to diminish their tax liability or avoid it altogether, it follows that the consequential loss of Revenue must be made good by the remaining body of taxpayers who either have not the same knowledge or opportunity of avoiding tax or are unwilling to lend themselves to schemes to thwart the apparent intention of the legislature. 
Following upon the recommendations of the Ligertwood Committee certain amendments were made to the Act in 1964, with the intention of closing certain loopholes in the Act. Again we see what can be done by skilful lawyers. I submit that this is one of the matters with which one has to contend in the public field. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  yesterday, in answer to a question concerning interest rates, referred to technical matters. Once a layman is unable to follow the logic of certain kinds of events, I think there are great difficulties inherent in the situation. 
The majority of people who have to pay tax in this country are wage earners, and they have no capacity whatsoever to escape their proper liability for taxation. I for one - I am sure this is the view of all honourable members on this side of the House - resent the clever lawyer who tries to lessen the capacity of taxation and does so only at the expense of the rest of the community. I do not know whether in the long run the solution is that there should be no private companies at all. I think that this is the area to which clever lawyers are tending to turn their attention. But in the long run there might be only one kind of company. 
At the moment skilful lawyers determine whether a person is taxed as an individual or as a partnership or as a private company or as a public company. Very often the very subtle device is used whereby a person can form a public company and then turn it into a private company within a few days. The whole purport of the exercise is to reduce one's total liability for taxation. As a very famous lawyer - I think it was Lord Mansfield - said on one occasion, it is the right of everybody in the community to pay as little tax as he can, but it is also the right of the government, by legislation, to ensure that loopholes through which clever lawyers try to drive carts and horses are closed. 
All  1  suggest is that we will support the Government in any attempt to close the devices which clever lawyers use. If I may say so, it appears, from the evidence given before the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, that the line between a person becoming a millionaire and finishing up in gaol is a very fine one. But the majority of people have no such intention. They tread the honest road of economic endeavour. They pay such taxation as is imposed upon them, and in some respects the taxation is heavier in the indirect field than is sometimes acknowledged. There Ls no possibility of either evasion or avoidance in the direct field of taxation on income earned by nearly  90  per cent of the Australian population. A clever lawyer tries to draw a fine line between evasion and avoidance. He tries to suggest that one is libellous. All I suggest is that both are very tenuous lines as far as equity in taxation is concerned. 
We believe that the whole structure of taxation in Australia should be reexamined. One Government member today asked a question of the Treasurer along these lines. The Treasurer gave in reply what  1  thought was a serious answer. The Government of which the Treasurer is a member has been in office in this country now for in excess of  20  years and as far as the major tax that operates in this country is concerned -  1  refer to income tax on individuals - no alteration has occurred for approximately  16  years. The incidence of this tax has been eroded by inflation. The sorts of deductions that are available give added advatage to those in receipts of higher incomes. The majority of concessions that are available to low income earners have not kept pace with inflation. These people do not have available to them the sorts of devices that are available with respect to company taxation. Australia collects by-way of company tax approximately half of what is collected through individual income tax. 
I have no regrets whatever at the closing of the door very heavily on any prospect of evasion of taxation at the company level. I refer to the sort of device that suggests that it can be said that a company is a private company. This afternoon we heard one of the most complicated speeches ever made in this House - I am sure that the Treasurer agrees - with respect to an attempt to avoid certain kinds of clever evasion that have been practised. Most people in the community do not try to be clever; they try to be honest. In this case, I take no view with regard to Casuarina Pty Ltd - under the Casuarina tree - or Fortuna, as the other company is called. Nevertheless, this case apparently has opened up what the Treasurer has described as highly artificial arrangements. My side of the House supports any attempt to bring down to earth these highly artificial arrangements. 
While I know that it is no easy matter,  1  simply throw up the suggestion that the Treasurer and his Government may need to decide whether there should be one class of company only. A number of hatch doors may be needed out of that sort of law. But when by clever legal contrivances - I do not think they are anything else but clever contrivances - an amount of taxation that is properly payable is evaded, my side of the House will assist the Treasurer to the hilt to close the doors on such action. I will not say any more because  1  respect the view that the case has been decided only recently and the details have still to be examined. I am not even sure, from this sort of case, what the totality of evasion may be. The Treasurer has not indicated that; he may not know what it is. I do not think that is quite as great as is sometimes imagined. Nevertheless, if anybody can avoid payment of  $1  of taxation that is legitimately payable, I for one will support any move to see that the door to this opening is closed very heavily against that person. 
The Opposition supports this Bill which, as the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  pointed out in his second reading speech, proposes one simple, though vital amendment, to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-70, namely, that the maximum contingent liability which the Corporation may accept under contracts of export payments insurance and under guarantees be increased from $300m to $500m. The Export Payments Insurance Corporation is a highly successful enterprise and a very useful undertaking, having been established in . 1956. The amendment in this Bill is the fourth or fifth of a series of amendments, the purpose of which has been to increase the scope within which this organisation may operate. We on this side have always supported the Corporation and have suggested that it ought to have been given a wider ambit to enable it to handle other sorts of insurance. If EPIC, as it is known, had been given a wider scope this would have strengthened its reserves and would have enabled it to carry out its important task much more strongly than it does now. The main purpose of EPIC is to assist Australia's export industries. I want to quote  a  statement con tained in the 14th annual report of EPIC for the year 1969-70. It reads: 
Epic's function is to encourage and expand trade with countries outside Australia by providing a specialised range of insurance and guarantee facilities not normally obtainable from commercial insurers. 
In performance of this function the Corporation is required to pursue a policy directed towards securing revenue sufficient to meet all its expenditure properly chargeable to revenue. 
At least the organisation has been successful, except in its earlier years. On the financial side it has continued to make a profit each year and also to expand the volume of business that it transacts. As we all know, Australia's future will depend to a large degree on the expansion of its export trade because it is primarily what is earned in export that conditions what we are able to import. Unfortunately Australia is still in the overall position that on an annual basis, taking into account all transactions - exports, imports, invisibles and so on - that if it were not for a capital inflow which over the last 10 years has aggregated nearly $ 1,000m for each of those 10 years, this country's balance of payments would be in an unfortunate situation indeed. We congratulate ourselves from time to time that at a certain point in the year, be it the 30th June or any other month, Australia's reserves are said to be $ 1,500m, $ 1,600m or $1 , 700m including the amounts that we have with organisations such as the World Bank. 
What that figure of reserves does not show when you look at it on the basis of a balance sheet analysis, is that we owe considerable sums of money overseas on Government account. There are 2 large economic powers - the United Kingdom and the United States of America - which have substantial holdings and assets in Australia. I think at present the combined equity of American and United Kingdom undertakings in Australia is somewhere in excess of $8,000m. When one adds to that Government indebtedness of somewhere in the region of $3,000m or $4,000m, then what appears to be the isolated asset of foreign exchange holdings is very small indeed. 
Australia is one of the countries that, relative to its gross national product, taking exports or imports as indicators of our gross national product, which is running at about $30,000m, has an export trade somewhere of the magnitude of $4,000m which is about 15 per cent or 16 per cent of the gross national product. That is a very high proportion of our total economic activity which is dependent on overseas trade. As I have indicated, Australia imports more in aggregate than it exports. The purpose of EPIC is to assist exporters in Australia who have to sell on a long term rather than a short term basis. If one looks at the way in which world trade is expanding, particularly the trade from what I call the advanced countries to the less advanced countries, or from the developed countries to the underdeveloped countries, one will see that it is in fields such as capital goods that there has been the greatest upsurge in activity. 
Also when one looks at the path of Australia's export trade that is assisted in this way - I have indicated that our exports are somewhere in the region of $4,000m annually - the path that is covered by export payments insurance is somewhere in excess of $300m which is about 10 per cent of our annual export trade. A comparison of this with the United Kingdom will show that the volume of transactions carried by this sort of organisation and by banking assistance is about one-third of the United Kingdom's export trade. Australia at least has a long way to go as far as this kind of transaction is concerned relative to our total trade. I think this points up significantly the directions in which we have to continue to move in the areas ahead. It is a welcome move that the contingent liability is to be increased from $300m to $500m. I hope that it will not be very long before the Government seeks the sanction of this House to raise that figure to $ 1,000m which will still not be a very large part of our annual overseas transactions. 
I think it ought to be recognised - I am sure it is recognised but perhaps without acknowledging the implications - that Australia lives in a part of the world where economic events are in a state of flux. We are inclined sometimes to think that we are still an outpost of Europe and that our traditional trading lines are with the United Kingdom and subsequently with the United States, when really our future lies in the expansion of trade in places such as Indonesia, South East Asia, the Philippines, India and other countries in that part of the world. It is perhaps significant that this week we are being visited by an important delegation from Japan. 
I want to quote one or two observations that were made in a fairly recent issue of the 'Economist' which is not a newspaper given to a wild kind of extravagant political statement. It is if anything a conservative journal. Only a few months ago in the issue of 21st November in the section titled 'Business Brief there is a heading which reads: 
The oriental economic imperialist is Japan. The article begins: 
The Japanese economy is twice the size of all the other economies of Pacific Asia together, including Australia and New Zealand. Projections by the Japan Economic Research Centre suggest that the outflow of long term capital from Japan in 1975- that is 4 years from now - could be anything from $2,500m to 3 times that figure, as compared with $668m in 1969 
Of course, whilst the Japanese economy is twice the size of all the other economies of the Pacific area, including those of Australia and New Zealand, one needs to bear in mind that per capita the Japanese standard is still not as high as that of either New Zealand or Australia. As the population of Japan exceeds 100 million people, that is, 8 times the population of Australia, and its gross national product, is $US200 billion compared with Australia's SUS33.5 billion, or 6 times greater, we are beginning to get near the point where Japan's per capita standard is almost 'hat of Australia's. But as we all know Japan has a much better record than we do in what is called productivity and it has a much better record in the expansion of overseas trade. 
The article goes on to state that because of the situation in which Japan, a small country with a large population, finds itself, it is dependent upon the rest of the world for supplies of raw materials. The article continues: 
This is why the Japanese have roamed the world in search of raw materials; the quest has led them to Australia (coal, iron ore, bauxite), to possible oil fields everywhere, and al] over Latin America. 
Of course, we all know the significance of Japan now as far as the iron ore industry is concerned, but at the same time Japan is much more systematic in the expansion of overseas trade than is Australia. When we debated another aspect of this measure some 12 months or 2 years ago I mentioned that one of the reasons Japan is so successful is that there are closer relationships between Japanese industry and the Ministry of International Trade and Industry than there are between Australia and its potential exporters. I believe that in the years ahead unless Australia becomes as systematic in the pursuit of export trade as Japan has been - and I believe we can be just as successful as they are if we go about it as systematically as they do - but unless we do we will be left behind in the race for economic development in this part of the world. 
In many respects Australia is uniquely situated because of its historical traditions and because it was left with an advanced kind of economy - although in terms of its population crf 12.5 million it is still nowhere near as great as potentially it can be - but its future lies in greater diversification of its export sales. We have traditionally relied upon primary products. The latest annual report of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation states: 
As the following table shows, manufactured goods for the first time, constituted more than half of all insured business (55 per cent). 
Steel and aluminium exports to a value of $50.3m were covered compared with $22.2m in the previous year. Prospects for further export expansion appear favourable. 
Other manufactured products which also showed good export growth wee textile piecegoods, engineering plant and electrical equipment and appliances. 
Insured exports of primary produce generally held firm, wool being one important exception. Greasy wool recorded a reduction of $4m and processed wool $8m due, it is believed, to a fall in prices rather than in quantity. 
Nevertheless, the point is that it is still moving very slowly in Australia and the exports sought to be assisted in this way are still preponderantly agricultural and primary products rather than manufactured products. I believe it is this field of manufactured and capital goods that Australia's economic health lies in the future. One of the rather intriguing explanations of this occurred in the Minister's speech when he said: 
The principal factor in this unexpectedly rapid build-up in contingent liability -  that is why we are seeking these amendments - is  the insurance of wheat export transactions. 
I directed a question upon it to him at the time. A rather odd little comment was made about this kind of thing in the latest annual report of EPIC. Surely it is strange that wheat which is supposed to be consumed, say, in the same year as it is purchased should have to be sold on long term credit at all. In fact that sort of trade runs contrary to the assumptions of what is called the Berne Union. Another article in the report states: 
There is increasing evidence of departures from the conventional maximum of 180 days credit for raw materials and consumer goods. Regrettable as this trend may be, the Corporation sees its duty to recognise changes in payment patterns occurring in international trade so that Australian exporters do not suffer any competitive disadvantages on this score. 
I would hope that they will make more flexible arrangements and recognise that the keen competition will be not so much in respect of the sale of such products as wheat - as in the credit terms that are available for sales of capital goods, particularly machinery and manufactured items on which the credit terms may have to go up to the maximum period of 5 years. If one reads the statistics about this sort of thing which are contained in the report, one is surprised to see that relatively few individual people take advantage of this kind of insurance. Nevertheless, a considerable aggregate of policies have been issued. There is a table on page 7 of the report which shows the face values and the number of policies issued. During the whole of the financial year 1969-70, 801 separate policies were issued. The transactions with a face value between $400,000 and $2m numbered 143 and accounted for more than one-third of the total face value of the transactions. The transactions with a face value of more than $2m numbered 29 and accounted for almost one-half of the total face value of the transactions. This sort of insurance is relatively big business but it is availed of by comparatively few people. Nevertheless, it is highly significant in the development of Australia's export trade. 
I think that one of the difficulties in the structure of Australian industry is that there is no great incentive on the part of the individual producer - I am leaving aside the field of primary industry - to sell his products overseas rather than internally. Yet in the long run this is where the great opportunities for diversity, both internally and externally, of the Australian economy lie. How are we to promote the kind of national sentiment which says that we ought to export rather than to look only to the home market? This gets down to the fundamental questions of the structure of Australian industry, of the control of Australian industry, and of certain mechanisms which regulate the internal activity of industry in Australia. 
On the last occasion when we were dealing with similar legislation I said that we ought to be looking at what was done by Canada some years ago. I quoted from a document entitled 'Bank of Montreal - Business Review' of 27th June 1969. I pointed out that in Canada it had been decided to replace what was called the Export Credits Insurance Corporation - ECIC - by a new organisation called the Export Development Corporation - EDC. That Corporation has been given a far wider scope and flexibility to enable it to respond effectively to the changing needs of exporters. I suggest that this is the kind of change that is needed in Australia in relation to EPIC. The EPIC needs not only greater contingent liability backing but also a wider franchise so that somebody in Australia, other than the voluntary bodies which are called export promotion councils and so on, is charged with the responsibility of seeing that there are considerable increases in our export trade in order to build the future economic destiny of Australia. I think that is highly significant. 1 again commend this suggestion to the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  or to his representative in the chamber this evening. Nobody denies the highly significant importance of expanding Australia's trade in future years and of relying not only upon primary products, and now minerals, but also upon the more sophisticated levels of manufacturing industry in Australia to ensure that activity is conditioned to the needs of the developing parts of the world. 
Later on this evening we will debate the International Development Association (Further Payment) Bill. If Australia gave the same attention to the development of the undeveloped areas as it gives to its own internal defence arrangements, I think that as a country we would be a much safer place. We should try to build better bridges and to establish better economic relations with out near neighbours, with Indonesia in particular, rather than stand awestruck, looking at the remarkable economic improvements in Japan. We should orientate our own economy to the sort of drive that is evident in Japan. Our survival in this part of the world and our attempt to make this part of the world a better and safer place are contingent upon the expansion of exports from Australia in fields other than the primary industry and mineral fields. If we were to do this we would hardly recognise the face of the Australian economy by 1980. 1 think that one of the great tragedies in Australia is that we are in a state of economic drift. We are not facing up to the fundamental and overall economic disabilities in the Australian economy. We simply hope that something will turn up - that the price of wool will rise or that somebody of whom we never thought when we produced the wheat will buy wheat from us. We no longer get that kind of easy solution to the problems of economic growth and expansion. Again I commend the systematic approach which the Japanese have adopted in this matter, and I would hope that gentlemen who visit Japan - I understand that the Australian  Deputy  Prime Minister will visit Japan within the next week or so - will give greater consideration to the co-ordination that apparently exists in Japan due to the work of its Ministry of International Trade and Industry - MITI. I am afraid that we have not got in Australia the equivalent of MITI but, nevertheless, there should be better drive and better cohesion between industry and our export representatives. I hope that greater attention will be given to this question in Australia in the years ahead. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for payment to the International Development Association of a sum not exceeding the equivalent of $US48m in connection with the third replenishment of the resources of the International Development Association. This organisation is part of what is known as the World Bank group. It has the virtue of being designed to assist what are called developing countries by providing loans that do not bear interest. The only charge is what is called a service charge of something like 0.75 per cent. Otherwise, the sums that are raised in this way are used to assist the underdeveloped parts of the world to diversify and to improve their economies in the hope that some day they might achieve something like the state of growth of those areas that are described as being developed. 
Each year the International Development Association produces a very informative annual report. The latest one available is for 1970, and I think it highlights just what the real difficulties are. Some statistics are given, and then the report states: 
An analysis of world trade by origin and destination confirms the prevailing trends of the past decade: the expansion of developed countries' exports has been absorbed by the developed countries themselves; the trade flow of developing countries is increasingly directed toward the developed countries; and the proportion of developing countries' exports to other developing countries has been gradually shrinking. 
In other words, whilst there has been an expansion of world trade, the greatest expansion has been between developed countries. A relatively smaller increase has occurred among the developing countries themselves. This, in a sense, is the reverse of what it is hoped might be achieved. I do not intend to speak very long because, candidly, I regard it as absurd- 
I do not know how many people are aware of the fact that, between them, these 2 measures sanction the expenditure of approximately $ 1,500m. If this House is to meet in these circumstances, the Government ought to show at least a pretence of some interest in the proceedings. This kind of continued conduct will only bring this place into disrepute. These measures were introduced into the House on Thursday of last week and are being debated now. It is hoped that the debate will conclude by 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock this morning. 
The Supply Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 sanctions the expenditure of $1,219,758,000 ordinary accounts while the Supply Bill (No. 2) 1971-72 provides for the expenditure of $313,554,000 on capital works and services. I say to those Government members who are not yet in the Ministry that if ever they do attain ministerial rank I hope that they will treat the business of this place a little more seriously than seems to be the case at the moment. 
The way in which this Parliament is being run is absurd. To illustrate my point I refer to the sort of measures that have been introduced last week and this week. I will mention only 4 of them which come to mind. We have one Bill which is fundamental to the whole structure of the waterside industry, a workers compensation Bill  whichshouldhaveappeared2yearsagoat  least, alterations to the resale price maintenancesectionoftherestrictivepractices legislation, and a highly complicated series of amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act. As things stand all of them are to be dealt with on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of next week. This Parliament will not then reassemble until 16th August. If that- is regarded as the proper way to transact the affairs of a nation I certainly want to make my small measure of protest about it. 
As every honourable member knows, these 2 Bills are annual measures. They provide the last opportunity for honourable members to debate the finances of this nation before the Budget session in August. They cover Supply from the beginning of July, the commencement of the 1971-72 financial year, to the 30fh November 1971 and provide for the ordinary services and projected capital works during that period. For the most part this is done on the pro rata basis of 5/12ths of the appropriations set out in the last Budget Of course, those figures are fiction because, as we all know, certain changes were made in the Budget as a result of certain steps taken in this House in February and March. 
I want to draw attention to one item in particular in Supply Bill (No. 2) which I am sure ought to be of concern to members of the Country Party. It is estimated that $33.5m will be required during the Supply period for advances by way of loan to the Australian Wool Commission. I would have thought that there would be some honourable member on the Government side of the House who would want to debate seriously the situation of the wool industry as they find it, particularly the workings of the Wool Commission. Honourable members would have had adequate opportunity to have such a debate had these Bills been held over until a reasonable time. That could have been done if the Government had been willing to remain in session for at- least another, week or two. 
But members of the Country Party support the Government and apparently concur in the process by which it hastily dismisses itself from - public responsibility. I think we are at a time of great watershed so far as the development . of the wool industry is concerned. On the one hand there is the optimist who thinks that the wool industry somehow is going mysteriously to change for the better all of a sudden; on the other hand there is the pessimist who believes that the industry is going to be slowly extinguished because of the greater use of synthetic fibres. I do not know how this question is going to be resolved in the next year or two but I think it is a subject about which a lot more should have been said in this House than honourable members will have the chance of saying. 
Another measure, the Loan Bill, was introduced in this House today. It will come on for debate some time next week. In essence it shows how nebulous are some of the assumptions on which the Budget presented in August last year was drawn. A lot had happened in the 7 months or so since August last. 1 will say a bit more about the Loan Bill next week. I certainly do not feel like delaying honourable members at this time of night. I regard procedures like this as a farce. Nobody wants to listen and for that reason 1 will say no more. I have made what protest I can on behalf of the Opposition. 1 hope at least that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  will convey the feelings of honourable members on this side of the House to his colleagues. Perhaps he may even yet persuade them to meet for another week at least in order to deal with some degree of decency with the very important measures that are to be pushed through this House next week. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  indicated, this Bill seeks the approval of Parliament for borrowings by the Commonwealth of $US29.58m, the equivalent of $A26.4m, from the Export-Import Bank of the United States and the Boeing Company, and a further loan of $US30m, or $A26.8m, from a syndicate of United States commercial banks led by the Chase Manhattan Bank of New York,. to assist in financing the purchase of jet aircraft and related equipment by Qantas Airways Limited. The planes in question are described as 4 Boeing 747s. Some other material which the Treasurer circulated with his speech shows that this is the 11th occasion on which parliamentary approval has been sought for a borrowing by the Commonwealth in the United States on behalf of Qantas. The Treasurer listed the other occasions and showed that between 1957 and 1968, $US289.9m, or $A258.8m had been borrowed from the United States. He also showed that as at 1st April 1971 there still remained of that sum $US8S.6m, or $A79.1m, to be repaid. So the loans have been self servicing in that they have been liquidated in relatively short periods of time. 
The Opposition supported the earlier measure which gave sanction to certain pre-delivery payments on the aircraft, such payments being approved by Parliament at an earlier date. The Opposition offers no objection to the financial aspects of this measure, but it does want to take this opportunity to. speak on the matter. I would have thought the Government might have been a little more forthcoming with information in view of the discussions that have taken place in recent days about the internal affairs of Qantas. It seems odd that the Parliament is expected to sanction large sums of money when we are told that in some respects internal arrangements, both financial and with relation to staff, are not as healthy in Qantas as they might be. I had hoped that honourable members might be given an interim statement. There have been all sorts of comings and goings over the last 10 days or a fortnight between the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the head of the Department of Civil Aviation,  Sir Donald  Anderson, the management of Qantas, and the pilots. But nobody even at this stage seems to know what has happened. 
Before I deal with that, I would like to say something about the finances of Qantas which, up to date, at least have been quite satisfactory. From a reading of the 1969- 70 annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd, dealing with the period up to 31st March 1970, it is hard to say why the internal finances of Qantas should have deteriorated to the degree some people are suggesting. I do not necessarily support that view. Like most people I am a little mystified by the lack of information that is available in view of the critical statements that are being made about the enterprise. 
In 1969-70 Qantas Airways Ltd had a revenue of $198.939m and an expenditure of $185.142m, leaving an operating profit for that year of $1 3.797m. On revenue, not capital, of just under $200m, it seems to be satisfactory to make an operating profit of nearly $14m or something like 7 per cent. Out of that sum $5.63 lm was paid to the Commonwealth as income tax. For several years now we have bad the fiction of taxing the enterprise - taking some of the profits out and giving them to the Commissioner of Taxation who then passes them on to consolidated revenue. The remainder, $8. 166m, is left as net profit to go into the reserves of the company. The figures show that during the 12 months there was an increase in the number of passengers carried from 582,000 to 683,000, which is getting fairly close to 2,000 passengers every day of the year. This seems to indicate that Qantas is a popular international airline. On page 3 of the report I read: 
In December 1969 the Company ordered equipment for a $17.7m expansion of its computer project, QANTAM. When it becomes operative in 1971, it will be the largest commercial computer system in Australia. 
On page 13, dealing with what Qantas is likely to do, the report states: 
Of equal importance is the development of a Management Information System. Large volumes of data are required to be processed for maintenance, operational marketing and financial purposes. Ready access to such information is necessary for management decision making. 
I  would have hoped we might have had some of this management information made available to us to assist us in this debate because it seems that there are considerable internal difficulties.  I  rely on a couple of articles which appeared in issues of the 'Financial Times' on 23rd and 27th April. Both issues dealt with the internal affairs of Qantas. The issue of 23rd April states: 
Captain Ritchie . . . 
He is general manager of Qantas - 
. said yesterday that cost estimates for the airline had jumped beyond estimates in a way never before experienced by the airline. 
Last year we estimated a $3.4 million increase in expenses for the year ahead,' he said. 
But we had had the 6 per cent national wage increase on December 14, followed 3 days later by an additional 18 per cent increase for Qantas clerical and graded staff. 
We face possible increases in the cost of fuel, and have added airport and air navigational charges.' 
With other increases in wages and salaries, the company's wage bill jumped by $11 million  a  year. 
At the same time, the airline has been faced by  a  drop of 30,000 in migrant traffic for the year 70-71. 
This is equivalent to 3 flights  a  week to Europe,' said Captain Ritchie. 'It is also equivalent to 45 pilots.' 
Captain Ritchie said that other major world carriers had been losing 'astronomical' sums of money with the widespread fall in traffic growth. 
Qantas has no charter to run at  a  loss, and we are determined to avoid doing so, he said. 
Qantas has superimposed on the international traffic situation the Australian cost situation.' 
At the moment, Qantas- believes it can sustain existing staff productivity by holding its general staff at its present strength. 
However, intake of stewards and hostesses in 1971-72 will drop by a total of some 155. 
The same article contains a statement by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots which was strongly critical of Qantas management. The article said: 
The Federation said it was surprising and curious that at the end of last year Qantas was seeking to add to their pilot strength from overseas sources. 
The Federation said Qantas management had informed it mat the first indications of a likely recession came in December. 
This obviously created a doubt, said the AFAP, as to the real reason for the present position when one month later the company was setting about a considerable expansion programme. 
The Federation said the Qantas reasons for the recession were hardly valid when the company had not pursued in a businesslike manner the overseas market 
Apparently the Federation had not gazed intently enough into the crystal ball. The article continued: 
The AFAP calculates that Qantas will end' the year with a profit of some $5 million and that it is not only in a sound financial position but in a much sounder one than any other world airline. 
To indicate the sort of situation that other world airlines are in, I quote from an article in the 'Economist' of 17th April 1971, which is just a couple of weeks ago. The article is entitled: '£75 to New York? BOAC puts its jumbo 747s into service on Wednesday, roughly a year late. It wants to halve the fares in order to fill the seats.' The article reads as follows: 
The writing is already on the wall. BOAC's profits have had a turn-round almost as sharp as the collective one which sent the American airlines more than £Stg50m into the red last year, of which £Stg20m was accounted for by Pan American alone. BOAC's operating profit fell over  roughly the same period, from  £Stg31m  to £Stg5m for the year that ended in March. AH that ground was lost in the second half of the year, and much of it in the last 2 months. There is no particular secret about why this happened. Suddenly, as the 390-seat jumbos have come in, there are more and more airline seats ' without passengers to fill them. And nobody is making any very successful attempt to find them. Of course the publicity men are working full blast, but they can only provide palliatives at best. Il is something more fundamental that is required now. 
It is no use saying that the airlines should not have bought so many aircraft. They have, and there is no going back on it. What is more, a new aircraft cannot be introduced in ones and twos. If an airline is to sustain a regular service it must have a minimum size of fleet; so BOAC is bringing 6 Boeing 747s into operation in a relatively short time. This is more than 2,300 seats, sufficient for nearly 1 million passengers in a year, or roughly half the number BOAC carried last year. 
Using the same sort of arithmetic, as far as Australia is concerned presumably four 747s would carry over 600,000 passengers in a year, which is something like the annual number of passengers carried by all the 21 other aircraft of Qantas in the previous year. This raises the question of whether, as in the  ease of steamship companies at an earlier time and later in the case of railways, in some of these undertakings there may not be overcapitalisation and perhaps a seed for more rationalisation in international air carriage than is currently the case. As I have indicated to date Qantas has been reasonably successful financially. I wonder whether, taking into account the capital cost of Qantas, by and large this country would have been in a better or worse position on an international exchange pattern if we had not had Qantas at all. I would hope that if such an examination were made it would show that Qantas had been a net earner of foreign exchange. It certainly has added to the international prestige of Australia. 
As T have said before in relation to similar measures, it is a pity that we had not gone as enthusiastically into providing a steamship service for this country 40 or 50 years ago - certainly, from 1920 onward - as we seem to have gone into equipping our international airline with the latest available types of aircraft. I am sure that if Australia had had a steamship service - not only internal but also external - with the same sort of vigour as Qantas provides for  the  airways, it would have had a very significant effect on shipping freights. Nevertheless, there are times when the. rate at which progress is being made in particular directions ought to be looked at. According to Qantas staff, the company will make a profit of $5m for the year ended March 1971. At least it is in a better position than Pan American Airways, which is showing a loss of about $US50m and the British company which is experiencing a loss of from §10m to $12m. Qantas is certainly not yet as badly off financially as those companies. I should have thought that, in the circumstances, the Government would have supplied us with a little more information. After all, if the Parliament is expected to hand out or sanction the use of $60m and the information is that all is not well in the undertaking that is borrowing the money, at least some of the fears ought to have been allayed. In my view, they have not been allayed. I do not want to take sides in this matter because the negotiations between the staff and the management of Qantas are at a somewhat delicate stage at the moment. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and others have been brought in to try to bring some unity to the discussions. I hope that the discussions are successful because there is not any doubt, as has been pointed up in the last annual report of the airline that its internal finances were adversely affected last year by industrial trouble. At page 16 of the report it says: 
The past year was an extremely active one in the field of labour relations. Qantas, along with other major employers, was subjected to heavy industrial pressure resulting in a series of strikes against the Company, mostly of short duration.  Depite  increased industrial activity, no serious disruption of services occurred. 
Unfortunately, there has been a certain degree of instability in the labour relations between the management and the staff of Qantas. I would not place all the blame on the employees. I believe that the enterprise could not have been what it has been without their support. The management of Qantas has not always been as diplomatic as it ought to have been in its staff arrangements. Perhaps instead of buying a computer it would have done well to strengthen personal relations with its employees to secure a little more peace within that industry. 
There is too much of a tendency for these sorts of undertakings - and no undertaking could be more modern than an airline - to provide their management from people who have retired from somewhere else. Whatever their expertise in another direction may have been, they are not necessarily the best people to have the control or the overall direction of an undertaking like an airline, particularly when it has a total balance sheet of about $250m worth of assets offset by about $170m worth of liabilities. That is certainly a large scale undertaking and, with all respect, is scarcely the place for people whose services are no longer required somewhere else. I hope that in the future there will be some vigour in the management rather than the employment of somebody who is just looking to supplement his superannuation which, as a result of the policy of the Government, is losing its value. It is understandable, I suppose, that a person should want to maintain his income, but whether it ought to be done in this sort of way seems to be rather dubious. I sometimes think that the kinds of expertise that are necessary to manage this sort of operation are very much different to those possessed by people who are brought in from outside with an entirely different experience. I hope that perhaps this will be considered in the future when appointments are made to the Board and other parts of the management of Qantas. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker-  (Quorum formed.) This Bill is described as a Bill for an Act to authorise the, raising and expending of moneys for defence purposes. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said in his second reading speech: 
The purpose of this Bill is, therefore, to obtain authority to borrow from the Reserve Bank an amount necessary to complete the financing of the deficit in 1970-71 and to use the proceeds of the borrowing for defence purposes'. 
He went on to show that that is more a fiction than a reality because He said: 
 The Bill is essentially a machinery measure to enable the Government to carry out policies already approved under the various Acts authorising expenditure, the raising of revenue and financing transactions. 
suggest that it is virtually a fiction in that whether the money that is to be borrowed from the Reserve Bank - I will say something about that in a moment- goes ultimately to defence, reimbursements to the. States or some other activity is a matter of the totality of the result rather than of defence in particular. But if the Government says that moneys have been borrowed for defence it gets , around the inconveniences of the Loan Council because the Commonwealth is allowed to borrow moneys for defence without having to receive the prior approval of the Loan Council. The intriguing point in the Minister's speech is that he said: 
Honourable members will appreciate that at this stage of the financial year, with large amounts of revenue still to be collected and expenditures still to be incurred, and because of the unpredictability of loan raising, it is not possible to forecast with precision the amount which it may be. necessary to borrow from the Reserve Bank to complete the financing of the deficit. 
All I do at this stage is point out that at this time, which is 2 months before the end of the financial year, the Government indicates the uncertainties; yet when the Budget was brought down in August - almost 9 months ago - the Government claimed that it could foresee the totality of the financial year at that time. Surely this is a matter on which we have to become a little more sophisticated. What the second reading speech on the Bill now before us says, in essence, is that the overall result of this year's Budget will be a deficit, whereas apparently, in the Budget Speech delivered in August 1970, some virtue was seen' in the fact that the Budget would show a slight surplus. It forecast a surplus of, I think, $4.4m. The then Treasurer did go on to make a few observations which, in fairness, I will quote; He said: 
For these reasons it would be rash to claim that the Budget will prove to be exactly suited to the requirements of the Australian economy through 1970-71. In anycase, strong and pervasive though its effects can be, the Commonwealth Budget doesnot determine the whole course of our economic affairs. A multitude of initiatives and decisions on the part of others have a share in that. In particular, excessive demands for increases in money wages and other incomes - especially when pushed ruthlessly in conditions of full employment- -could jeopardise prospects of balanced growth. There is a need for responsibility and realism on the part of all in. the community here; the problem of containing costpush inflationary pressures is a large" one confronting all Western economies and it cannot be tackled effectively if there is not a general will to do so. Certainly, no Budget framed consistently with a full employment policy" can do the whole job. 
Finally he said:  we have sought to make this a precautionary Budget but not a repressive one. - 
Since that Budget was framed the Government has made a number of changes to it. Economy measures were announced in March this year, in the form of reductions in certain expenditures. I would have thought that if those reductions were justified they oughtnot to have been justified in the name.' of inflation; they ought to have been justified in the name of efficiency. Since then additional amounts have had to be paid to the States to enable them to get out of certain financial difficulties, the main one of which is forced upon them  by  wage increases which they have to pay to their employees and which they have no separate means of meeting unless the Commonwealth provides additional money. 
Certainly there are a number of unknowns at the time of the framing of the Budget. Even as late as the end of April some of them remain unknown. I cite just one or two of them. Capital inflow is one. We never know during the whole course of a- financial year what the capital inflow will be. In recent times we have relied on it to the extent of about $ 1,000m annually. We do not know what loan redemptions will be. That includes both internal and external loans. We do not know what the effects of subscriptions to new loans will be during a period of 12 months. We do not know who it is primarily who takes treasury bills - whether they are taken within the banking system or by institutions once removed from. the banking system. Nor do we know the effects of what is called open market policy as conducted by the Reserve Bank. I was rather intrigued the other day to read in the only report I have seen of the. lecture delivered by the new Governor of the Reserve Bank,  Mr Phillips,  of the reliance that is placed upon open market policy by the Reserve Bank. 1 was pleased to see the new Treasurer make mention the other day of what he called debt management. I have observed in this Parliament for many years now that in this country not enough attention is paid to what can be described as debt management, where ultimately the initiative lies with the Treasurer, the. Treasury and the Reserve Bank if they want to exercise it. In my view, in this country there has been too great a disposition to hand over the initiative in these matters to what might be called large scale manipulators of the private side of the market. Indirectly, the repercussions of that flow over into the public sphere. But, in terms of the total working of an economy one can do only a certain amount, public and private. Somehow or other, one has to strike a fair balance, particularly on the investment side, between what goes into private investment and what goes into public investment.' A government undoubtedly has the initiative if it wants to exercise in that matter.' 
However, there has been too much of a disposition to let the thing ride, and as long as there is not a large degree of unemployment the Government does not seem to worry a great deal whether, in essence, there is more private investment and less public investment. I believe that decisions of that kind are important. This country is still languishing to a degree because there has been excessive private investment in some directions - I do not say in all - and there certainly has not been sufficient public investment in other directions, and in particular in the fields of education and health. As I have said, the initiative to correct that kind of imbalance properly, if it exists, lies in the hands of the Commonwealth. 
We will have before us in a day or so a highly technical taxation measure. It is concerned simply with the borrowing, mainly overseas, by undertakings and strongly organised borrowers in this country. We are not talking here about the people who borrow a few thousand dollars to finance a mortgate. We are talking about people who borrow hundreds of millions of dollars to finance development in particular directions. Further, the kind of money that is sought overseas does not come from small individuals in the countries where it is sought; it comes via institutional arrangements. Often some of the institutions are borrowing at one rate and lending at a slightly higher rate, depending on a very slender margin in the transaction. That kind of thing seems to be easier to mobilise as far as private development in certain directions is concerned, but to my mind we have not yet faced up to the crucial question which is the question of getting a fairer allocation of available resources as between public and private investment. 
To a great extent, this is what the Budget is in a position to do. In many respects I feel that the whole substratum on which the Budget claimed to be based in August 1970 has been breached in the 8 to 10 months that have intervened since. Firstly, the Budget itself added to inflation in the country because it imposed indirect taxes that could only have the effect of forcing up the prices of the goods and services upon which those indirect taxes were levied, namely, such things as petrol, cigarettes, other consumer items and postal charges. This was reflected in the consumer price index in the quarter immediately after the Budget and, in due course, led to wage claims to place the wage earner on the same level as he was before the prices were inflated. The Government then became seriously concerned about inflation and took what I suggest were panic measures. I think most of them have been politely forgotten since, but they gave the impression at the time that the Government was keenly aware of the dangers in the economy. 
I do not know whether the Treasurer will be prepared at some stage to hazard a guess about how much he thinks he will have to borrow from the Reserve Bank between now and the end of April next. He has said that it depends on a combination of factors, one being the amount of revenue' still to be collected. He. should have a fair idea of the amount of revenue still to be. collected although, looking at the last monthly statement issued by the Treasury covering the 9 months to March 1971 and comparing it with the 9 months to March 1970, there has been a far higher collection of tax revenue in the relevant period in 1971 compared with that in 1970. Part of it is due to inflation but the big differences between the relevant period this year compared with the same period last year lie in the items 'Net change in Treasury Notes on issue' and Net proceeds of loans raised in Australia*. I shall deal with those 2 items. Net proceeds of loans raised in Australia for the 9 months to March 1970 amounted to $191m whereas for the relevant period to March 1971 net proceeds were down to $85.465m. 
Less than one-half, the fall being of the magnitude of over Si 00m. There is an extraordinary difference in the amount covered by the item 'Net change in Treasury Notes on issue*. For the 9 months to March 1970 treasury notes on issue amounted to $492m - near enough to $500m - whereas for the 9 months to March 1971 they amounted to $906m- $900m in round figures. It will be seen that there was an increase of some $400m in the treasury notes on issue. 
On the surface inflationary, that is right. The only thing is that one does not know - certainly it is not revealed by that statement - whether those treasury notes, which are taken up mainly within the banking system, have been taken up by the trading banks in place of some other transaction or have been taken up directly by the Reserve Bank. It is necessary to know these kinds of things in order to make an appraisal of the situation. As my friend has said, at least on the surface the situation was much more inflationary in terras of the effects of Government financing in March 1971 than it was in March 1970. That result was obtained immediately after steps supposedly were taken to abate inflation. 
There are certainly contradictions from time to time in the logic of this Government. I think it tries to make a virtue of necessity, but sometimes the necessity has arisen because of its failure to handle the situation early enough. Recently in the course of another speech I referred to the situation in Australia as being one of economic drift. Deplorably, this is the situation which faces us in Australia. We seem prepared to let things drift along. If private enterprise can fill the bill and do the investment, fair enough. In effect, the Government's attitude is: Do not worry where it goes as long as there is investment, and if the sufferer happens to be public investment, particularly at the level of the States, that is just too bad. I do not think that that is anywhere near good enough. 
We have had great debates in this Parliament within the past month or so about something called productivity. I believe that one of the greatest contributors to increased productivity is, in the long run, the educational levels of the community from which the work force is drawn. That is highly significant. When all the analyses have been made, productivity to a great extent arises out of having a higher degree of skill in manpower harnessed to a more efficient use of techniques, machines and so on. It is not right simply to blame the wage earner or to call on management. There has to be a co-ordinated approach involving many factors. If there is to be an improvement in the overall level educationally of the work force, that points to the fundamental importance of increased expenditure on education, particularly at the higher secondary and tertiary levels. That is where the immediate impact will be if there are to be any real increases in productivity in, say, the next 4 or 5 years rather than within a generation of 20 or 25 years. It is the short term proposition that we should be looking at. 
I should have thought too that the Government ought to have been . concerned a long while ago about what is happening in the loan market in this community. I still think it is deplorable in any community that the interest rate on gilt edged securities has to be as high as 7 per cent because ultimately if the gilt edged rate is as high as that it puts all sorts of punitive rates on borrowings for other than for Government purposes. When  one reads from time to time advertisements claiming that lenders will give 9 per cent to  9i  per cent before even they lend the money one rather trembles at the consequences to the ultimate borrowers for the goods and services to which that money is finally put. After all, if it is loaned to one person at a rate of 9 per cent or  9i  per cent it will not be relent to somebody else at less than 101 per cent or 11 per cent. When one is starting to finance the purchase of land, homes and home equipment in terms of a structure as high as that, I think some serious attempt should be made to grapple with the problem of trying to bring interest rates down. The Government may have to do it by beginning selectively with particular sorts of individuals. 
I was a little intrigued recently by a reply given by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to a question about what is undoubtedly a change in the treasury bill rate. The Treasurer said that it was only a technical change. If it is a technical change surely it is made for some particular purpose, and I would have hoped that that technical purpose would lead to a crack in the wall of high interest rates. I hope that the Treasurer has it in his heart to try and get interest rates a little lower than they are because in a few years he will be facing the problem that is facing my family now. They want to buy land and a house and furnish it and this is becoming extraordinarily difficult for them with the interest structure that exists at the moment. Certainly at the moment when loans come up for conversion members of the public are not very anxious to put their money into new government loans even though the rate of interest which they can get is much higher than the one they are currently get ting. Increasingly when a loan is floated the tendency is for a higher proportion to be taken at the short end of the market and a lesser proportion at the long end which, of course, stores up considerable problems every year in relation to additional redemptions. 
I think this has been part of the difficulty this year when there is an inordinately large amount falling due for convert sion. I think I saw it stated that loans close to the value of $ 1,000m were due to be converted between July 1970 and June 1971. If that is the case I suppose it is difficult to get the whole lot converted, but nevertheless one would imagine that this would be corrected by encouraging a greater part of available funds to be directed to the .loan market for public rather than private spending. It is money that otherwise would perhaps be disposed of in private hands for some other purpose. The success or otherwise of that kind of venture will, I suppose, depend upon taxation. Taxes in this country are high already and I believe that they are inequitable in the directions in which they are imposed. I would hope that serious consideration will be given to that in the preparation of the next Budget, with not just a few piecemeal concessions here and there but a whole restructuring - even starting anew in relation to income tax, which is the central tax in our system. As the Treasurer knows, in the last 2 or 3 months of the financial year we do get a rather high flow of revenue because provisional taxpayers make their payments in that period. But I think that with the way some of the provisional tax payers fortunes have gone in the last 12 or 15 months some of them will be applying for reductions iri their provisional assessment. The likelihood is that the yield will not be as great as was anticipated at the beginning of the financial year and therefore the Government's recourse to deficit financing may be greater than was at first thought. 
I think one of the dilemmas in which Government supporters get caught is that they are inclined to sneer at the use of Reserve Bank credit as being a resort to the use of the printing press. After all, we have to resort to the printing press anyway to print our notes every year but to suggest that we should not use the weapon of 
Reserve Bank credit in certain circumstances is wrong. One of the greatest tasks that faces a community as a whole, I suppose, is how to allocate available sources of credit against the virtual multiplicity of demands that can be put upon the use of that credit. Somehow we have to match one with the other and this is why we on this side of the House believe that there is a need for systematic planning, particularly in the investment field, in order to cut the cake properly as between public and private investment I hope that perhaps before the debate ends the Treasurer will indicate whether or not a figure will be put forward. Sometimes in the past when a similar Bill has come before the House it has included the phrase 'not to exceed $200m' or something to that effect but on this occasion, prudently or otherwise, the Treasurer has chosen not to include such a figure. 
I know, but I thought nevertheless that this year you would have been prepared to hazard a bit of a guess as to how much you would need by the end of the financial year. 
I will conclude where I began - by saying that I hope that in his first Budget the Treasurer will not be quite as exuberant as some of his predecessors were and suggest that he can see, on 17th August 1971, the whole course of the economy to 30th June 1972. I do not think the Treasurer or anybody else can do that and I hope that at some time he will be imprudent enough, if I may use that term, to admit to that deficiency. I recall a Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer in Great Britain saying that neither he nor anybody else could predict in April, which is when the British Budget is prepared, what the course of the economy might be even 6 months later. I suggest that this kind of thing is true here, and whilst I suppose a Budget should be more than merely a statement of projected expenditures and anticipated revenues I think sometimes we get a. little too clever as to what the position will be. All I suggest to the Treasurer is that he will be cautious when he speaks on that awe inspiring night of 17th August when the whole of Australia hangs on every word as though it counts when obviously 12 months later they find the words were lighter and the counting was different. 
This Bill seeks the approval of the Parliament to, the guarantee by the Commonwealth of $US23.2m or $A20.7m to be borrowed by the Administration of the Territory of Papua New Guinea from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In essence, Australia stands behind this loan as a guarantor. The Opposition offers no objectionto this measure, whose proceeds will be devoted to assisting a major hydroelectric project on the upper Ramu River in the highlands of New Guinea, about 85 miles north west of Lae. All I point out is the vast amount of development work that still has to be done in Papua New Guinea if it is to reach any significant stage of industrial development or achieve any change from its basically subsistence economy in the years that are ahead. I again point out the difficulty that faces countries such as this when it is realised that the terms of this loan - the interest rate is about7½ per cent - load on to infant development the kind of financial burden that much more sophisticated economies can assume but which perhaps can cripple this kind of endeavour. 
I understand that one of my colleagues who has just been in that area wants to say something about the effects of the last loan as far as internal costs are concerned. I would hope that Papua New Guinea will have recourse to the other branch of the World Bank about which we talked recently, namely the International Development Association, which provides money at virtually no interest or for only a nominal service charge. That is the kind of assistance that the well developed have to give to the extremely underdeveloped. As I have indicated, we do not oppose the measure; but I merely take the opportunity to point out the very high burden that the current interest rates on loans from this Bank place upon development in Papua New Guinea. 
As an amendment, I move: 
That the words 'the next sitting' be omitted with a view to inserting the' following words in place thereof: 'Tuesday next'. 
I do so because of the significance of this measure. After all, not only does it reimburse the States but it also places a penalty upon one State in particular, Victoria, with regard to pay-roll tax. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  took about 20 minutes to deliver his speech, which contains a great deal of statistical information. When the House agreed most reluctantly to certain guillotine provisions, described as the omnibus guillotine, it had no conception that additional measures such as this would come before the House. In these circumstances, I believe that it is absurd to ask this House to deliberate sensibly upon this measure. After all, it involves a sum of $60m for the remainder of this financial year and a projected sum of $100m for 1971-72. We are asked to adjourn the debate and to resume the discussion later today - I was about to say 'with all respect', but I think that the Government has lost any respect that may have been attributable to it - we have reached an absurd stage when we try to transact business in this way. Neither I, nor honourable members on this side of the House, can see any reason why we should not adjourn this measure and come back next week to debate it properly, after having had discussions with our respective States. 
The Treasurer mentioned that the Victorian Parliament has just risen for the winter recess. In actual fact it adjourned only yesterday. That was about the only accurate piece of- information in his speech. The Opposition believes that it is most unfair to transact business in this way. It is in all seriousness that I have moved this proposition to enable the normal procedure to be followed of adjourning the debate for a reasonable time to allow the Bill to be considered. It is for these reasons that I have moved, on behalf of the Opposition, that the debate be adjourned until at least Tuesday next. 
 As all honourable members know, the time for this debate is limited. The debate must be completed by 9.26 p.m., and this is a highly complex measure. Perhaps I should indicate at the beginning that it is not the intention of the Opposition to oppose the legislation, but we do want to take the opportunity to raise one or two matters in association with it. The Bill was brought down on Thursday, the last sitting day of last week. It had an explanation that it took the Minister about half an hour to deliver. The Bill was accompanied by an explanatory memorandum of some 33 closely typed pages. As the memorandum indicates, the main purpose of the legislation is to provide 2 exemptions from withholding tax and other tax on interest on certain borrowings from overseas. I wish to say at the outset that the Bill is designed more with regard to attracting foreign investment than with the collecting of revenue through the income tax provisions. In fact, as a consequence of this, to some degree there will be a certain loss of revenue to the Commonwealth, although that will be cancelled out by certain tax deductions that will not now have to be made. 
The significant event that is supposed to flow from the passage of this legislation is that certain borrowers in Australia of funds from overseas should be able to obtain those funds at a lower rate of interest than previously applied. In the case of what are described as bearer debentures, whereas the proposition was formerly not attractive at all because of the tax law in Australia, it is suggested that, because of what we are now doing, certain kinds of investor will find it more attractive to invest in Australia. There are some reservations put upon it. Such investment as will get the advantage of this legislation must flow directly into Australia; these provisions must not be used in the sense of using Australia as what was described in the Minister's speech as a tax haven. I want to say something about tax havens, too, because I think they are of some significance here. However, broadly, the sorts of transactions that are involved are not the small kinds of transaction of some individual in Australia borrowing money from an individual in some other part of the world; what is involved here is borrowing by Australian interests at fairly high levels, such as $20m, $30m, $40m, and $50m. That is the kind of transactions involved, and the borrowings being arranged will not be from small individuals in the United Kingdom or the United States of America or from Euro-bond markets and so on, but will be from large institutional lenders, many of whom depend on quite a fine margin for the funds they raise as against the funds they lend. 
According to the logic which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  used when bringing in this legislation, that was the kind of borrowing that was penalised before the passage of this legislation. What is described as a withholding tax and the rate at which this withholding tax is made on interest payments to some extent has historical antecedents in Australia and is somewhat conditioned by arrangements which we have under double tax agreements. As far as I can recall, at the moment we have double tax agreements with the United 
Kingdom, the United States of America and Singapore, and I am not too sure whether there are some others, but at least where there is a double tax agreement between Australia and the country that the investor comes from - in the terms of the agreement there is a limit of 10 per cent placed on the taxing of interest and 15 per cent placed on the taxing of dividends where that interest and dividend is received ultimately by somebody who is not a resident of Australia 
This looks all right on the surface; but, because of the scales of borrowings about which some of these negotiations take place, a lender who wishes to place his money in Australia takes into account the fact that there is a withholding tax or some other kind of tax in Australia and, instead of lending his money at a rate which might be called a market rate, he lends it at a higher rate. So he receives the return on his investment which he wants either by charging a higher interest rate or by the concern in Australia which borrows the money paying withholding tax. As I have indicated, this is a fairly complicated kind of transaction. In order to illustrate the types of things that go on in this field I want to quote 2 extracts from a quite interesting publication which I came across recently because of a reference I saw in the 'Economist'. 
The publication is entitled 'Tax Havens and Offshore Funds'. On page 2 of this publication, which is published by the Economist Intelligence Unit, it is stated that a tax haven is a place in which people who have large sums of money invest their money because either there is no tax imposed in this place or there is a low rate of tax imposed - certainly a low rate of tax in such fields as capital gains and income tax. The learned writers of this publication describe the essentials of a tax haven as follows: 
First and foremost of course, it must have low, or no, taxes on at least one important category of income. 
Secondly, a haven must have political stability. 
Thirdly, it must be accessible, not only physically, but also legally. There are many places in the world which would qualify for tax haven status if only they could be easily reached. 
Then the learned writers make this interesting observation: 
Among these - 
That is what might be called suitable tax havens in some respects - is Norfolk Island off the Coast of Queensland, an independency of Australia which has no taxes. Other taxless oases are Nauru . . . and the New Hebrides, an Anglo-French condominium with no clear demarcation of legislative powers and a foot in both the sterling area and the European Monetary Union. These are all so remote as not. to be a viable tax haven for anyone but the most determined Australian tax avoider. 
I simply cite that as an example because the Treasurer, in the course of his second reading speech, indicated that one of the reasons for introducing the legislation in the form in which it has been introduced was to avoid the possibility of Australia being used as a tax haven. He did not spell out precisely how Australia might be used as a tax haven, but at least it was implied that an entity might be created in Australia to which money could flow but which would not directly make investments. It is suggested that this loophole has been closed. 
In order to show the kinds of things that have been done in recent times by Australian interests in order to take advantage of a tax haven not in Australia but in other parts of the world, I again quote from the publication entitled 'Tax Havens and Offshore Funds': 
An important catch for the Dutch Eurobond net which has set the scene for a host of others was a $20m issue of Eurobonds- 
This is the magnitude of the sums that are being borrowed - in 1967 by Queensland Alumina Holdings NV. 
I am not quite sure what 'NV stands for, but that is the name of the company. The quotation continues: 
This is a joint company formed by four major mining groups to finance a bauxite processing plant in Australia. Instead of incurring the Luxemburg capital costs and immobilising $2m it chose the Netherlands which imposes no annual tax on capital and levies no withholding tax on interest paid to non-resident bondholders: equally, Dutch 0.73 per cent issue tax on long-term borrowings was avoided since the bonds were issued outside Holland and ranked as tax exempt foreign securities. As an extra carrot to bondholders the four mining companies guaranteed that if Holland levies withholding tax in the future, they will redeem the bonds at 103 per cent before Jane 1, 1975, and at par thereafter. 
I quote that merely to indicate the magnitude of the sums involved in these transactions and the sorts of devices to which people will resort in order to raise sums of this magnitude. We can argue about whether there is too much foreign investment in Australia, but that is not the interesting field to which I want to refer this evening. Nevertheless, if foreign investment is flowing into Australia, surely it is advantageous to the internal structure of the operations in which the money ultimately is invested if that money is borrowed at lower rather than higher, rates of interest. It seems to me that in some respects this is what the Government is endeavouring to do, because the Treasurer, in his second, reading speech said that there were two broad categories. He continued: 
The first broad category is bearer securities issued overseas to the public or on an otherwise widely spread basis. The second broad category relates to what might be termed overseas borrowings to support whole or partial Australian ownership of debentures in this country. 
It seems that these are the kinds of loopholes which the Treasurer is endeavouring to close. There are shrewd operators in this game and, candidly, I have not a great deal of respect for the shrewd operator who will chase around the world in order to get his money at the lowest interest rate available and who will then, because nothing much has been done internally in Australia, exploit the Australian people by investing money in the development of Australian resources. If there were better public supervision over these matters the resources could be developed much more equitably and much more cheaply for the benefit of the Australian economy. It must be recognised that over the last 10 years Australia has accepted foreign capital inflow at an average rate of approximately Si ,000m a year. If Australia is to continue to accept foreign capital inflow at that rate, I suppose it is prudent that the money be obtained at lower rather than higher interest rates. 
I think that one of the most incredible utterances of all time was made in March or thereabouts of this year when certain economy measures were inflicted upon the Australian community with a view to damping down inflation. The incredible statement made was that the Government was alarmed at the large amount of capital which was flowing into Australia for property development and which the Government did not seem able to tape. I think there is something wrong with the internal management of a country when money comes into it from overseas and the Government is unable to tape where it goes. I would like to quote from an advertisement which featured prominently in 'The Economist', a well known overseas publication. This advertisement has appeared in at least the last 3 issues of this publication, namely, the issues of 10th April, 17th April and 24th April 1971. I shall quote from the advertisement which appeared in the issue of 10th April. It is headed: 
A  new kind of safe, high yield security for 
United Kingdom investors: Guaranteed mortgage investment in Australia. 
In the centre of the advertisement appears a map of Australia. This is the kind of blurb that accompanies it: 
Investing directly in mortgages on property is traditionally one of the safest and most effective ways of putting one's capital to good use. 
It refers to the fact that one can get 9 per cent gross yield on one's investment. If one can get 9 per cent on the money that is lent, one can imagine what the ultimate price will be to the person who puts his money into property, and particularly if it happens to be someone who wants to rent a flat or buy a home. The advertisement continued: 
In Australia, mortgage investment means something even better - for the investor. 
I do not believe that home building should be regarded primarily as of advantage to the investor. I think it should be conditioned by advantage to the person who wants the home. 
For Australia is the only country in the world where investment can be made in Guaranteed Mortgages, with the repayment of both principal and interest fully covered by mortgage insurance. 
The advertisement noted underneath what was meant by the term 'guaranteed mortgage', and continued: 
Today, Australia, with stable government and one of the world's hardest currencies - 
Why is it hard? It is because of this sort of flow of foreign currency into Australia. If we took a balance sheet of Australia's overseas investments as against Australia's overseas indebtedness we would find that Australia is one of the most bankrupt economies in the world. This is why honourable members opposite ought to view with a certain amount of alarm the question that was asked by one of their back benchers this afternoon in the House. The advertisement went on to say:   . . a country of swift development and growing prosperity. 
Yet, 2 months ago we were told that Australia was in a condition of raging inflation and that we had to damp it down. The advertisement continued: 
The population is increasing rapidly and there is a continuing demand for first-class residential property, most of which is purchased on mortgage. 
Is it a sign of great economic health that most of our property is purchased on mortgage and that we have to borrow funds to sustain it overseas at 9 per cent with advantages that sometimes reside in the way in which Australia's internal tax law is drawn? After all, the people who invest here are conditioned by their own tax structure as well as by the internal tax structure in Australia. They do not come here out of love or as philanthropists; they come here as hard, shrewd, calculating people to get the highest return they can on the money that they invest. The advertisement then stated: 
The high rale of income from an Australian Guaranteed Mortgage is fixed - not estimated, not tied to fluctuating share prices or world interest rates which are now tending to fall. Nor is the investment subject to the performance or financial strength or weakness of any trust, fund or company. 
I think a lot of other people in Australia would be appreciative if their incomes could be guaranteed by reason of having escalative provisions in them. I refer to such people as superannuitants, pensioners and the like. But the only people apparently who are guaranteed a place where they can put their hedge against inflation are those who invest in property. 
If we are to obtain money at lower rates rather than higher rates - this legislation goes somewhere towards it - I suppose at least this legislation ought not to be opposed. But as I have said on some other occasions here, it is about time that we began to take critical stock of the internal structure of the Australian economy. It seems to me that the situation of drift that we find is a disastrous sort of situation. If anyone saw how the Government of this country has been conducted in the last couple of days or weeks, one could have no feeling that the problems are being grappled with. I believe it is the right of a government to secure equity in financial transactions for all sections of the community, and not just to create sweet lurks that are of advantage to some people who have large quantities of money. 
I have no illusions whatever about this legislation. It is designed to advantage those who borrow money in large quantities from investors and who lend it in large quantities on finely negotiated margins. This seems to me to be the whole purpose of the legislation. 1 resent the fact, candidly, that there is not an adequate opportunity to examine the merits of this legislatim, particularly in the Committee stage, because it relates to a highly complicated portion of the Income Tax Act. I refer to sections 125 to 128, division 11 of the Act which refers to interest paid by companies on bearer debentures. One section which was written into the Act nearly 20 years ago was section 126 which is what might be called the punitive provision. It imposed a penalty rate on certain transactions because it was realised then - this was in the days of a Labor government - that attempts would be made by shrewd speculators overseas and shrewd manipulators inside the country to try to evade the real spirit of the tax laws of the country. Section 126 remains. But as far as the class of investment we are talking about is concerned, the section is abridged, but it is designed to enable this kind of money to come perhaps at a lower rate of interest than it otherwise might. As I have said, I resent the fact that we are not able to discuss this fully during the Committee stage of the debate. I will not say any more because a couple of my colleagues want to speak. We have only 4 minutes less than an hour between the lot of us to discuss this kind of transaction. I repeat that it perhaps deals with flows of money. When one looks at the statements made there is something like $20,000m annually floating around die Eurobond market looking for the best return, the best tax haven, the best offshore foothold that it can get. To my mind it is typical of the attitude of this Government that matters as significant as this are disposed of in a space of time so short. 
 Although these Bills - the Superannuation Bill 1970 and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill (No. 2) 1970- are being rushed through the Parliament at this stage, I point out that they were introduced into this House in September or October 1970. Therefore it can hardly be claimed that we have not had sufficient time in which to consider the Bills. But, because of certain technical amendments that had to be made, the Bills have been moving backwards and forwards between the Treasury and interested organisations. They have now come before the Parliament as part of this rush programme. When the former Treasurer introduced these Bills he circulated an explanatory memorandum dealing with the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund which stated: 
The purpose of these 2 Bills is to give effect to the Government's proposals for the preservation of superannuation rights of contributors to the 3 contributory retirement benefits schemes established under the Superannuation Act 1922-1969 and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1970, namely, the Superannuation Fund, the Provident Account- 
Those who do not qualify for the Superannuation Fund on medical grounds are still able to subscribe to what is called the Provident Fund - and the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
In broad terms, preservation will work as follows. A person contributing to one of these schemes who changes his employment with (ho Commonwealth and is required to contribute to another Commonwealth superannuation scheme, will be able to gain credit in the new scheme for his accumulated interest or stake in his former scheme, including the Commonwealth's share of that interest or stake. In addition, a person who moves to public employment with the States, including State universities, will be able to preserve his superannuation rights. As well, a person with 20 years' Commonwealth service who leaves to engage in private employment will be entitled to a preservation benefit. A person joining  a  Commonwealth scheme with a right to a preservation benefit from another scheme, including  a  private scheme, will be able to pay the amount of the benefit into the Commonwealth scheme and obtain credit for it. 
The legislation deals with what is broadly described as portability or the ability to carry a person's right in one superannuation scheme, whether it be public or private, over into another. The advantage that is conceded to this kind of provision is that it allows for what is called employment mobility. If a person is in a particu: lar kind of employment, whether it is government or private employment, and he has retirement benefits related to his employment, the longer he is in the scheme the more reluctant he becomes to transfer from that employment to something else, although in the general interests of the economy it might be a good thing that he should transfer. As increasingly there are technological and other changes in the economy it is less and less likely that when people go into a job, say when they leave school, they will believe that that job will last for the whole of their employable life, which may be from the age of 20 to about 65  -  a period of from 40 to 45 years. 
At least the schemes are a move in the right direction although they are limited at this stage. They apply only to people who are in the Commonwealth Public Service and in the armed Services. If they transfer from the armed Services to the ordinary Service or from the ordinary Service to the armed Services, at least their rights are protected. If any person has been for a total of 20 years in Commonwealth employment and transfers to nonCommonwealth or non-governmental employment, he may take some sort of commuted right with him. It is the belief of the Australian Labor Party that the longer we continue to defer such a scheme, the more difficult the problems become. The community as a whole has to face up to the introduction of what might be called national superannuation. That would mean that irrespective of whether a person is in private employment or government employment, if he transferred from one job to another there would not be the same kinds of difficulties about his retirement benefits. With that in mind, I intend to move on behalf of the Opposition a technical sort of amendment at this stage to draw the attention of this House to the need to face up to this kind of problem. I intend to move: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'further consideration of the Bill be deferred pending a report by a joint parliamentary committee to be appointed to inquire into the Australian proposals and overseas practices in relation to a national superannuation scheme.' 
I want to try to illustrate the rather curious sort of situation that we have in Australia and the astonishingly few comprehensive statistics that are available about superannuation funds. The Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics publishes quite regularly 2 sets of statistics. One deals with selected private pension funds and the other deals with government pension and superannuation schemes. The latest one that deals with selected private pension funds, which was issued on 8th April this year, shows the assets of these various private pension funds as at 30th June 1970. It does not really indicate the number of funds there are, nor does it indicate the number of beneficiaries that there are in the schemes; it simply gives an aggregate of the balance sheets of the various undertakings. They show that at 30th June 1970 the total assets of these private pension funds were $1, 194.7m. The latest figures I have for the government funds deal with a period some 2 years earlier. They show that as at the end of June 1967 the accumulated assets of the various government funds, that is State government and semi-governmental schemes, were $l,214m rising by about $100m a year. So presumably the figure would now be in the region of $l,800m. There were 516,000 people contributing to those funds and about 100,000 people who were beneficiaries of those funds on that date, and the number was rising by 20,000 to 25,000 annually. 
Nearly 2 years ago a survey was undertaken of both public and private funds in 
Victoria. If one bears in mind that Victoria has about 27 per cent of the total population of Australia, one can perhaps by extrapolation get the picture for the whole of Australia. But at least this was the total employment position in May 1968 in Victoria. There were 352,000 manual workers employed in private economic activity and 98,000 people described as manual workers in government employment. Only 89,000, or approximately onequarter, of these 352,000 manual workers had some sort of superannuation benefit; 263,000 manual workers were without any superannuation. So 3 out of 4 manual workers - that is, mechanics and those who work with their hands in factories rather than those who are described as white collar workers - were without any superannuation scheme in private employment. 
In relation to those in government employment, the position was somewhat different. Of the 98,800 in this category, 56,000 or more (ban half of them had superannuation benefits of one kind or another; 42,000 were without such benefits. Of the 169,600 non-manual workers in private employment - these are white collar workers as distinct from blue collar workers, to use the jargon of today - 99,900 were in superannuation schemes and 69,700 were without superannuation cover. At least one quite evident distinction is drawn here. It is that in private employment a white collar worker is more likely to be a contributor to a superannuation scheme than a blue collar worker is. 
I turn to the government field. Almost all of the non-manual workers were in a superannuation scheme. Almost 86 per cent, or 62,900 out of 75,000, were in such a scheme. Of the whole workforce of Victoria employed in the private sector - approximately 525,000 persons - just over one-third is on superannuation and approximately two-thirds is not. But in the government field, of 172,000 people, 120,000 or approximately 70 per cent, were on superannuation; the others were not. 
What I draw attention to, first, is that superannuation at the moment tends to be what we might call class biased. It favours the white collar worker as against the blue collar worker. The vast majority of ordinary workers in the community are not covered by superannuation at all. One reason why my Party has urged the need for a national superannuation scheme is that so many people are not covered. I have said in this House before that, whatever we feel about what is called the revolution of youth, I believe that there will be a revolution of aged people in the years ahead. I refer to those people who at the moment are between 30 and 65 years of age, are employed in our workforce but presently are not covered by a superannuation scheme. These people will not tolerate the fact that as soon as they turn 65 and cease work their income will drop by approximately two-thirds. This is roughly what happens now. 
Let us take as an example the person who is on the average weekly wage of $80. He retires the day after he is 65. He goes on to the age pension. In that category, four out of five of the population qualify automatically for the pension. If that person is married and his wife receives a pension the weekly income from both pensions is $27. This represents a drop of two-thirds in weekly income. We all know that, at the present time, great discontent exists regarding the basic level of pension. Whatever the degree of tolerance that may have been shown by those who have retired already, 1 believe that in the future those who retire and who next day see such a large drop in their income, will not tolerate such a position. Candidly, I do not believe that they ought to tolerate that situation. There will be a marked contrast between their earnings on the day they retire and their pensions thereafter. 
This is one aspect of the problem. The other aspect is this: If the Victorian figures that 1 have quoted in regard to those fortunate members of the community who are covered by public or private superannuation schemes are applied to the community as a whole, probably only one-quarter would be covered by superannuation schemes. That one-quarter is very heavily subsidised by the existing tax arrangement. I instance the case of Commonwealth public servants. Out of every $7 that is paid out of the fund to a contributor only $2 comes from the contributor's payments, the other $5 being made up by the Government's share of the contribution. 
In addition, the contributor will receive on the payments he makes to the scheme a  tax  deduction of anything between a half and two-thirds of his payments, depending on the tax range within which he falls. All his contributions are really subsidised by the tax system. The same sort of situation applies with regard to the funds of private companies. The contributions made by employers are subsidised via the tax system. In the case of companies, this means that approximately 47i per cent of every dollar contributed by the employer is subsidised from Commonwealth revenue. As I have said, a similar situation applies to the contributor. 
In aggregate, I regard this as a highly inequitable sort of system. I believe that all kinds of problems have to be faced in this situation. That is the reason why a progressive committee of inquiry is needed. The matters that are involved are so vast as to require something like a full scale public inquiry that might take quite a long time to encompass all the aspects involved. All sorts of arguments would be advanced. Suppose a national superannuation scheme was introduced. What would happen to the private and public superannuation schemes that are already in existence? An arrangement, described as a contracting out kind of arrangement in other countries, might need to be introduced. 
I commend to the attention of this House the kind of inquiry that was recently undertaken in the State of New South Wales. The report of the committee of inquiry has been called the Trimmer report and it was presented to the Parliament of New South Wales on 30th September 1969. I wish only to list the kinds of things that have to be taken into account in trying to evaluate this situation. The report states that the differences between existing schemes were so numerous and the views of employers and employee organisations covered such a wide range of views that the committee felt that its examination of them could best be undertaken by first considering the principles upon which government retirement funds should be based. The committee was concerned only with government operated superannuation funds. Nevertheless, I believe that the matters it examined are relevant to the total situation. 
The committee expresses the hope that consideration of these principles may lead to decisions by the Government which will result in the establishment of one general retirement scheme which, as will be suggested, would be appropriate for the majority of government and quasigovernment employees. The committee's report lists a number of question which the committee regards as relevant. I do not propose to answer these questions. I merely pose them as being indicative of the kind of complicated network situation that must be faced. These include such questions as: should there ultimately be one retirement fund covering all employees rather than a series of funds? What types of employees should be eligible to join a retirement scheme? As I indicated, at the moment the preponderance of those who join superannuation schemes are non-manual workers or white collar workers. Should there be separate schemes for wages and salaried employees? That again is a variant of an earlier question. Should a scheme be optional or compulsory? Should a scheme be contributory or non-contributory? What proportion of the cost of a superannuation or retirement scheme should be financed by the employer? Should schemes be based upon a lump sum or a pension benefit? Should a government scheme be funded or not founded by the employer? 
Then there is the matter of interest rate and government guarantee in the fund. What types of benefits should be provided in a retirement scheme? Should they cover health, invalidity, retrenchment, reemployment and so on? Should the retirement benefit be related directly to salary? Should the benefit be related to length of service? At what age should retirement benefit be available for men and women? Should the amount of benefit vary with sex or marital status? How should retirement benefits vary in relation to age at retirement? In what form should pensions be paid - lump sum, pension, or both? What is the extent of the employer's responsibility to subsidise death and breakdown benefits? Should there be provision for a withdrawal benefit, which is part of the problem involved in portability? Should employees be able to elect for various levels of retirement benefit? Also there is the adjustment of benefit and contributions with increases in salary. What should be the basis for the employee contribution scale? Should there be any limit on employee contributions? 
What ancillary provisions should be included in a superannuation or retirement scheme? What is the nature of the administration of such a scheme? 
There are some 20-odd items involved there, all of which are complicated in themselves. It is highly foolish to go into this field without a fair amount of preliminary inquiry. If one introduces a fund in the future, it does not do anything whatever for those who are existing beneficiaries, that is, those who are pensioners already receiving sums of money. They gain nothing as far as beneficiaries are concerned from the creation of a contributory scheme in the future. There is a great question to be answered, a question which has tremendous social impact: People believe that if they put a dollar into a fund today on the assumption that it will return a benefit when they retire, they should get something like the value for the dollar they draw as against the dollar they put in. That is one of the difficulties that haunts all schemes at present. It is the sort of difficulty about which honourable members on both sides of the House regularly receive submissions from people, Commonwealth superannuation beneficiaries, State fund beneficiaries, pensioners and so on. They ask: 'Why can we not have the purchasing power of the pension maintained?' I believe these are questions that have to be faced up to. 
I was interested to receive in the last few days from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations a report disclosing a rethinking of this scheme. The Council seems to me to come down on the proposition that it would be much simpler if every person paid a certain percentage of his salary into a fund and as his salary rose the amount of contribution would increase, but the percentage would be constant to the salary. At the end of his employment he should receive a benefit that would be determined according to the years he worked, taking into consideration the final years of employment, and would be adjusted periodically to allow for changes in costs of living. This is why the Opposition does not object at this stage to this kind of legislation. At least it has the virtue of doing something towards acceptance of the fact that when people leave one kind of employment to go to another, particularly when they go from government to private employment, they should be able to take some of the benefits they would have received had they remained in the one job all the time. 
The amendment we hope to move in the committee stages is that where the Bill provides for 20 years, we think that the qualifying time should be reduced to 10 years. We have had representations from Service organisations, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and others in this regard. I leave it al that. 
That all words after that' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
I move: further consideration of (he Bill be deferred pending a Report by a Joint Parliamentary Committee to be appointed to inquire into the Australian proposals and overseas practices in relation to a National Superannuation Scheme'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Is the amendment seconded? 
This Bill, the States Grants Bill 1971, was introduced at about 2 o'clock this morning. It provides for the payment of additional grants to the States as compensation for loss of receipts duty revenue and as special revenue assistance to help finance the respective Budget deficits of the States for the year 1970-71. In addition, it contains the rather peculiar provision for certain amendments made necessary because of the non-payment of payroll tax by Victoria and the legal challenge by that State and by South Australia to the validity of payroll tax in its application to State governments. It seems to me to be a rather odd mixture of things to say the least. One can appreciate the need for the grant of some $60m to compensate for the loss of the receipts duties that the States would otherwise have collected in the period from October 1970 to 30th June 1971, but which were made invalid by a decision of the High Court of Australia, which regarded them, insofar as they did not apply to wages and salaries, as a payment in the nature of an excise. Therefore, as it was in the nature of an excise it was within the competence only of the Commonwealth to collect them. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  implied that for the rest of this financial year the sum would have been about $60m - I think it is $59.7m - and for a full year the amount needed to compensate the States will be $100m. The Opposition does not oppose the measure, because it is its view that the receipts duty, as it applied, was a silly sort of tax. It was regressive. It was applied on all sorts of household commodities - on groceries, green groceries and so on. It was a flat, unjust tax and if the States needed more money, the Commonwealth should give it to them. At least, that is being done by the first part of the measure. 
However; there is this peculiar arrangement about payroll tax. As everybody knows, payroll tax was introduced, I think, as. far back as 1945 for the purposes of financing child endowment. It was levied as a percentum of the wage bill with certain exemptions. The flat rate is  2i  per cent on the wage bill, after allowing for certain kinds of exemptions. Of course, it applies not only to wages of private employees but also to wages that are paid by the States to their employees and to certain State instrumentalities, such as the State Electricity Commission, the Gas and Fuel Board and so on, and to municipal bodies as well. The Australian Labor Party, for many years when amendments have been sought to the payroll tax legislation, has suggested that these sorts of bodies should be exempt because it seems wrong in principle that one level of government should impose a tax upon another. Certainly the reverse does not happen. There is no tax that the States apply which is payable by the Commonwealth. All honourable members know of the example of ratable property owned by the Commonwealth in municipalities and on which no rates can be collected. However, the same sort of immunity does not seem to apply' to the tax on payroll. The Treasurer, in the course of his speech, indicated that about $40m annually is paid by  air  the States in payroll tax on their wages bills and about $30m additional is paid by semigovernment and local authorities. That is an aggregate of about $70m. He gave no estimate as to the percentage of that $70m which is borne by Victoria but, bearing in mind the level of economic activity and the total population of that State, it is likely that something between $23 m and $25m is the annual burden borne by Victoria. 
The Opposition's reason for suggesting that the tax should be lifted is that local authorities and State authorities are already short of finance. This situation probably applies with more force to local government authorities than it does to State authorities, because local government authorities have only rates available to them and if they are mulcted of this payroll tax it simply means that a higher level of rate has to be applied to make up for the sum that is paid in payroll tax. There is a certain amount of circular argument here and it is pointed out in the Bill, because it is suggested that, in the event of Victoria not paying the payroll tax which is properly applicable to it, or which the Commonwealth believes is properly applicable to it, sanction is sought in this legislation whereby, when making grants in the future and, in particular, for the financial year 1970-71 which has only some 2 months to run, an adjustment shall be made in the grants otherwise payable to Victoria to take from that State the amount of payroll tax that has not been collected. This seems to be an arbitrary kind of way for the Commonwealth to exercise its financial dominance. It seems to us most peculiar that it should be included in this measure. We are really mixing up 2 entirely different sorts of matters. Provision is made for a special amount to be paid to make up for the absence of the receipts duty, and to take from Victoria, and potentially from South Australia, uncollected payroll tax. Both Victoria and South Australia have challenged the validity of the imposition of payroll tax in a case before the High Court. I do not know whether the case has been proceeded with; it certainly has not yet been decided. 
This is a tyrannical exercise of power by the Commonwealth. It seems fair enough that in the past the Commonwealth has been able to persuade the States - apparently it is still able to persuade them all, with the exception of Victoria and South Australia - by saying: 'Let us continue to collect the payroll tax from you but we will take it into account when we are making the reimbursement.' This seems to me to be a most untidy and unsatisfactory way of doing things. I suggest with all respect that it is a most inequitable way of doing things as far as the semi-government level of activity is concerned. It may be that the State can have the matter adjusted, but what adjustment will be made for the local governing authorities in this roundabout of Commonwealth and State financial relations for the payroll tax that they pay? I do not think that any adjustment is made. As I said earlier, honourable members on both sides of the House have had quite numerous representations made to them recently by local governing authorities suggesting that payments should be made directly from the Commonwealth to the local authorities to assist them in such works as the abatement of rates to people in receipt of age pen sions, the provision of certain social welfare services such as child minding centres and baby health centres, and the various kinds of relief work that local authorities are called upon to perform in the nature of social services but for which no direct payment is made to the local authorities and which has to be met out of their rates. 
If it is true, as the Commonwealth suggests with respect to the States, that the matter has been taken into account in their reimbursement, I suggest that it has not been taken into account and cannot be taken into account under existing financial relationships as far as local government and semi-government undertakings are concerned. I believe it is high time that there was a re-assessment of the whole question of grants from  the Commonwealth to the States. By reason of financial domination and to some extent the way in which taxes are allocated under the Commonwealth Constitution, it has become inevitable that the preponderance of financial resources should be available to the Commonwealth but that there, still is a variety of constitutional responsibilities that lie with the States and the local authorities but which are not matched by the availability of finance. 
Having taken the opportunity here to point out the reality of the situation as far as payroll tax for the States is concerned, the Government should carry its thinking through a lot further to go to the logic of the mal-distribution and the inequity that prevails at the level I have described as the poor relations in financial arrangements, namely, the local authorities.. I hope that considerable attention will be given to that matter in the months that lie between now and the preparation of the Budget. I have no doubt that the Government will receive substantial representations about this important question from local authorities in the months ahead. We may not like it, but the majority of the people of Australia still live within about SO miles of the centre of the great capital cities, Melbourne and Sydney in particular. Between them the Melbourne and Sydney metropolises, taking a 50-mile radius contain almost half of the total population of Australia. It is in these conurbations that most of the problems of rational development for the future are beginning to emerge. 
We hear a great deal of talk these days about pollution and of organisations having an unrestricted right to make a profit by setting up industry. People are beginning to be concerned now about the detriment that particular industries sometimes cause to the social environment. The Senate, in its report on this matter, pointed out quite clearly that the nature of these problems was such that they could not be handled merely at State or local levels and that they ought to be regarded as national problems. I believe that to obtain better financial relations with local governing authorities some attempt has to be made to break the nexus which at present prevails. Local authorities ace creatures of the States through Local Government Acts or whatever they may be called. Perhaps payments will have to be made for special purposes, at least on the basis of need, as demonstrated by the Commonwealth. 
I hope that when the Parliament resumes, greater consideration will be given to these problems. 1 suppose one could say that we expected this kind of measure, that we knew what the constitutional arrangments were. That may be fair enough, but I believe, as a Parliament man, that when amounts of as much as $60m are spent there should be far more scrutiny on the part of the Parliament. To a great degree that scrutiny should lie in a systematic examination of the basis upon which payments are being made. I hope that we will have the opportunity when we come back to this Parliament in August to debate these great national matters with considerably more time and in more detail than we are able to get at the moment. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 address a question to the Minister for Supply. Have there been retrenchments in employment at the Government Aircraft Factory at Fishermen's Bend? If so, what was the extent of these retrenchments, and are further retrenchments likely? Are there any proposals for rationalisation of the aircraft industry? Will the Minister make a statement about the future of this industry, which is of such vital importance to Australia? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he say who are the publishers of a publication called 'Polish Weekly'? 
Is it an English language publication? 
What is its approximate circulation? 
Who is current the Consul-General of the Polish People's Republic in Sydney, 
Has he any information that the ConsulGeneral has sought to influence the economic viability of the 'Polish Weekly' by counselling certain regular advertisers in the publication to withdraw their advertising? 
If so, is it possible to determine the correctness of allegations that the reason for this action is to attempt to stifle or restrict the policy of the publication? 
Does diplomatic imlunity prevent any effective rebuke if the position is as stated in Parts (5) and (6)? 
If ever there was a Budget that shows more clearly in the Australian context than others that things are claimed for Budgets that Budgets are not capable of sustaining, surely it is the Budget that is before us at the moment. It was claimed to be obsessed with the problems of inflation, and yet in its very structure it assumes inflation and feeds inflation by the indirect tax increases that it proposes. Then it applies a dose of deflation to those who I suppose are least responsible for inflation. The Government went out of its way not only in the course of the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  but in a number of answers to questions and statements that have been made in this House in recent days to see the real villains in the picture of continuing inflation as ruthless trade unions pursuing increases in wages. 
I want to say something about one or two aspects of this claim. It seems to me to be a travesty of the industrial bargaining process to attempt, as many Government supporters do, to see union claims for increased wages as a case of lions leading donkeys to an annual picnic in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at public expense. That is a travesty of the circumstances that determine the wages of 90 per cent of those who derive incomes in Australia, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  described. It seems to me that insidiously what is being assaulted here is not only the trade union movement but also fundamentally the integrity of the Arbitration Commission itself. On another occasion I quoted in this House the opinion of three of the judges of the Arbitration Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby,  Mr Justice  Gallagher and  Mr Justice  Moore as expressed in the 1968 national wage case. In their judgment they said: 
Wo all agree that in the present circumstances of full employment and in the absence of an incomes policy, it is just not practicable for increases in wages and salaries to be kept confined within productivity increases. To believe otherwise is to ignore what has happened and what is happening in other countries of the Western world. 
It seems to me that that is the thesis that the Government is attempting to assault. I quote also some of the submission which the Commonwealth Government made in the national wage case of 1 970. The section on page 61 of the submission states that over the 15-year period from 1954-55 to 1969-70 the share of wages, salaries and supplements in terms of gross national product at factor cost has remained remarkably stable. It also states: 
Arguments as to the trend over time can rely on the choice of base and end years; to avoid this  problem  a lest of the long term trend has been made -by fitting a least-squares trend line to the wages share for each of the years from 1954-55 to 1969-70. The trend shows a fractional increase- 
I hope the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  sees where the decimal point is here -  of- 0.024c per annum over the period - i.e., on. this trend it would take over 40 years for the share of wages in gross national product at factor cost to rise by 1 per cent. 
The trade union movement is prepared to assert this kind of thesis and to say: 'We have been able to hold what we have as our share of the total national product only by taking the sort of action that we have'. The only counter-claim that a government would be entitled to make - this Government is certainly not making it, and its failure to do so has only aggravated the problem - is: 'If you had not done what you did, perhaps you might not have aggravated the situation as much as you have'. This is the kind of narrow confine in which it seems to me there is no answer that can definitely be said to be right or an answer that can be said to be definitely wrong in the circumstances. 
It is rather difficult to evaluate a current Budget. All one can do is look at where the last one went wrong. There are many imponderables in the Budget, and the one that I want to come to in a moment - surely the most imponderable of all in the circumstances of today - is the rather vague item called the Budget domestic surplus. I will say more on that in a moment. Last year's total growth performance in the Australian economy was the worst for several years and there is no denying that. To my mind that points to the failure of budgetary policy properly to regulate the allocation of total resources in the community. 
The Minister for Housing should not have been very pleased with the results of dwelling construction last year. Table 8 on page 1 8 of the Budget document entitled National Income and Expenditure 1970-71' expresses the result in terms of what are called constant prices, using the year 1966-67 as the common denominator. Building construction last year was actually less than for the previous year. 
Something like S30m in real terms. The star performers in the economy last year were the finance companies. Again I submit that honourable members should examine the figures very carefully and look at the performances of company incomes which are delineated on page 8 of the document on national income and expenditure. Whilst the income of trading companies as a whole fell in 1970-71, there was one group of companies whose performances rose spectacularly. I refer to the finance companies, whose aggregate income increased from $240m in 1969-70 to $286m in 1970-71, whereas the total income of companies in other fields fell by $68m to $2,908m in 1970-71. 
We can again see what has happened to the economy when we look at the figures on private investment in Australia. Taken in 2 forms, firstly in terms of actual prices last year and then related to this constant price factor, they show that what looked to be an increase of $32m in private building construction this year as against last year was actually a decline of $3 3m when related to real prices. Similarly in the field of other new buildings, that is, the kind of skyscrapers that are talked about as against hospitals and so on, there was an increase from $1,1 14m to $ 1,400m. Even corrected for the price factor, the figures showed an increase from $l,005m to $l,184m, while the figure relating to factories and so on rose by a matter of only $100m. I submit that Australia is allowing financial manipulators to dictate the balance and the direction of the economy. This is an area where the Government should take the initiative. If ever anything points realistically to the need for a lowering of interest rates in Australia, or at least a selectivity of them, in relation to dwelling construction, the results achieved by the finance companies do. The same sort of conclusion can be drawn from the report of the Reserve Bank of Australia 1970-71 from which the Minister for Housing quoted. On page 13 of that report, we read the statement: 
Heavy expenditure on office construction and in mining and related manufacturing industries such as refining and smelting was primarily responsible for the strong growth of private non-dwelling investment in 1970-71. Spending on private nonresidential building and construction rose by about 25 per cent at current prices and 17 pec cent in real terms. 
In real terms the number of luxury offices, banks and so on being errected has increased while construction of dwelling houses has fallen. The other item which fell in the total performance of the economy last year was the expenditure in real terms on public investment. It fell from $2,430m to $2,422m. This is all revealed in the document entitled 'National Income and Expenditure 1970-71'. Education, health and so on suffered but there was no shortage of building construction on every corner of every city square. Dozens of them are being built. This development can clearly be seen. I suppose this is all office space. Goodness knows what will happen to it if certain things happen to the economy in the next 12 months. 
What I should like to do in my remaining time - and 20 minutes is a very short time in which to try to do this sort of analysis - is to refer to a table in the document entitled 'Statements attached to the Budget Speech'. On page 15 of that document under the heading 'The Financial Year 1970-71' there appears what I would call a mysterious item called the 'Budget Domestic Surplus', upon which so much seems to be hung these days but about which most people know so little. If ever there is a mystery as to where the money is coming from, the mystery is here. What will be the sources or the composition of the $630m that is described in this glorious term 'Budget Domestic Surplus'. All that the words 'Budget Domestic Surplus' mean - we get some indication of it from the text - is that it is the surplus which is withdrawn apparently from total activity and which the Government instead of private endeavour spends. But let us look at the imponderables that are embraced in this. It is the end result of a combination of factors. The 'Budget Domestic Surplus' appears in the table not as a plus but as a minus. It is $458m. The table shows that one item, 'Reserve Bank Holdings of Gold and Foreign Exchange', rose during the year by $798m. Would any honourable member like to make a prediction tonight as to what will happen to that item in the course of the next 12 months? 
The other item which is of some significance and which is made up in the table of  a  series of pluses and minuses is 
Holdings of Commonwealth Securities by the Non-Bank Private Sector'. Last year, this item rose by $277m and, again, was referred to in tie report of the Reserve Bank. Will that item be as great this year as it was last year? Will the economy be so stimulated that sums of that kind will be available from private spending to be devoted to public spending? As the Leader of the Opposition suggested, I think it is time there was more planning in the Australian economy. But the word 'plan' in this context is still a dirty word to some people. If ever a lesson was highlighted in the last year it was the extent to which funds flowing into this country from overseas undid what was sought to be done by monetary policy in the economy. Nobody is quite sure why these funds are coming into Australia and to where they are going. Even the Government, when it introduced its adjustment measures in February of this year, drew attention to the fact that it thought that much of this money was going into the type of building construction that I have mentioned. Mind you, the Governments only thought that this was so. 
Why does the Government not know? What is wrong with the control of capital, particularly foreign capital which comes into this country? What is wrong with the policing or the controlling of this capital? Why cannot the Government tell where it is going? Why should not some conditions be set as to whether it should come? Yet the Government says that it thinks some of this capital is going into this type of building construction. One does not need to go very far to find where the capital is going. In debates in this House last year, I mentioned that the 'Economist' was advertising every week that it was possible to send money to Australia and earn from  9i  per cent to 101 per cent mortgage. I do not believe that Australia's economic development is best encompassed by mortgage money at high rates of interest. I think Australia's economic devolpment is best encouraged by having development financed at the lowest possible rate of interest in the circumstances. One of the reasons we were given for this money flowing into Australia last year was that it was thought that the interest rate obtaining here was better than that obtaining anywhere else. Was that not a good reason for lowering interest rates? lt seems to me that there is a number of portents in the present situation. Presumably, we will not know for another 24 hours or 36 hours what will happen as far as currency is concerned. But, surely, if so much reliance is placed on this rather odd item, 'Budget Domestic Surplus', at least let honourable members on the other side of the House who study these things look at the components of this item last year and ask themselves: 'Is this a good augury for the future?'. 
As far as inflation is concerned, the Treasurer refers to the fact - this is implied in the Budget several times - that average incomes are likely to continue to rise at the same rate this year as they have in previous years. But, if inflation continues, an obligation .will fall upon the Government to do something about those elements which form 'dropout categories' in the process. The first 2 categories of 'dropouts' resulting from inflation are those on fixed incomes, not only social service recipients but also those who receive superannuation payments. I received today a letter which was written to me by a pensioner who asked: 'Why should not my pension rise immediately? Why should I have to wait until legislation is passed when already the prices of petrol, bread and many other commodities have risen in anticipation of the passage of legislation enacting these provisions of the Budget?' I think that that pensioner has a point. Equally, those people who are on superannuation, who have paid into funds and who believed that their payments ought to return a real purchasing power have been robbed also. 
The third element which has dropped out in this process is Commonwealth-State financial relations. Whatever was thought to be done in the last Budget, in aggregate the expenditure on capital developoment at public level - I repeat that that means schools, hospitals, public transport and the like - actually declined last year while finance companies enjoyed a bonanza year. I think that it is high time that this kind of near banking mechanism was subject to the same controls as is banking proper. There is nothing to stop the Government taking this action and it would have the support of all in this House if it tried to do so. 
At the beginning of his speech, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said, and I agree with this, that his statement is little more than a preliminary assessment. The Prime Minister went on further to suggest that what has happened up to date is only an interim situation since it has done nothing to achieve the more significant realignment of exchange rates which the United States of America and the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund consider to be necessary. However, I would like to make one or two observations about the situation on behalf of my Party. 
I note that the Prime Minister suggests that at all times he will keep in mind the interests of the Australian economy and the Australian nation as a whole. It would seem that in many respects the action which the United States took in this matter was at least an endeavour to set its own house in order. I think there are one or two signs at the moment where the Australian house also needs to be set in order. 
One of the great difficulties in discussions of this type is to separate what might be called the truly trading aspects of international exchange from what sometimes become financial and turn into unhealthy speculative aspects. If one reads between the lines of the Reserve Bank report which was tabled in this House the other day, one can find that there is a great deal about capital inflow into Australia which is not known and which, in my view, ought to be known. Until it is known and catalogued more systematically, the situation as we see it will be made much more dangerous than it is. I think the sort of thinking that is wrong in this matter was also described by the Prime Minister in his speech. The Prime Minister talked of what goes on. He said that we do not have access to the economic dialogues centred in the United States and Europe. What is at stake here is the future of the international monetary arrangements which, as the Prime Minister rightly said, came into operation to assist the smaller countries and the developing countries. The smaller countries and the developing countries are very far removed from either the United States or Europe. It is time that it was realised that more than half of the population of the world lives in developing countries. Australia is a developing country and is a neighbour to the undeveloped part of the world. 
I think what was wrong in the present situation was that the United States acted unilaterally in his matter. It ought to have gone to the International Monetary Fund, like anyone else, to make any variation in its exchange rate. Technically, perhaps, the United States has not done that, but it certainly has not observed the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. As the Prime Minister pointed out, what in essence has been done here in regard to the import charges on trade is in breach of GATT. I hope that in the days ahead of this crisis the Government will stress this point in those councils. I do not know whether we should seek to become one of the Ten. After all, the Ten consists of European countries. What has to be stressed, if we become one of the Ten, is that we are a voice for the developing and undeveloped parts of the world. I think what horrifies people most about crises of this kind is that certain blocks of money measured in billions of dollars can almost seem to be transferred overnight, speculators can have a heyday and the victims are the trade terms of developing parts of the world. If this is the case there is something fundamentally wrong with the existing arrangements. 
I hope that the system is not destroyed. I think that the special drawing rights were an improvement. I still have my own views, which in deference to my colleague the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  I will not state, about the future of gold. It seems to me monstrous that in 1971 we still need to have reference to the shibboleth of gold. It seems unfortunate that if we are to have some other currency in the place of gold there will be a certain amount of loss of face on the part of those countries whose currencies cannot be regarded as the paramount one. The fact that there has been only a slight shift of a few points in the last few days indicates that the dollar is still the currency that most people want. It is certainly the currency that most people want to see stay stable. Whether a slight rise in the price of gold would help is not clear. It may be that it will, and this will certainly help the Australian gold industry in the process. Perhaps we could make some slight marginal increase above $35 to, say, $35.50 or $36. I think that these matters are worthy of consideration. 
The Opposition has not attempted to make any capital out of the current circumstance because it is a critical circumstance. In the short term a country like Australia cannot do a great deal to influence the position. But I believe that, as in other fields, Australia could have used its position more than it has done. I hope that Australia will, in the future, raise its voice more than it has done. Australia should emphasise that what is at stake here is the stability of currencies and above all the exchange of trade between countries on terms that are reasonable and just to both sides. It seems to me to be wrong that the United States should insist that, in what is essentially a 2-way process - that is the relationship between one currency and another - it alone should be able to influence. I am afraid that it has the economic strength to be able to do that. But it is the preponderance of strength on the part of those who manipulate currency on the one hand and the unorganised nature of those who want to trade on the other hand that seems to me to be the fundamental problem. 
I hope that the Prime Minister will continue to keep us informed about this matter in the future. As he promised he has given us a statement. As he said, it is preliminary and really not much has happened in the last few days other than that, the situation has not accelerated further into a crisis. I hope that the position will be maintained. I also hope that Australia can have more influence on the situation in the future than perhaps it has had in the past. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fox)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
How many units of accommodation for elderly people have been subsidised by the Com monwealth Government under the Aged Persons Homes Actin the Municipalities of (a) Melbourne City Council, (b) South Melbourne, (c) Port Melbourne, (d) Fitzroy, (e) Collingwood, (f) Brunswick and (g) Flemington. 
How many units subsidised by Aged Persons Homes Grants in these areas were (a) flats or cottages for active aged, (b) hostel or personal care type units and (c) nursing homes. 
 I must break the long line of lawyers who have taken part in this debate, but I draw to the attention of the House the fact that most of the matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  deal with economics. I point out to the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  that in the first report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which was tabled in this House on 1st October 1958 and which had the support of both sides of the House, the Committee in paragraph 149 stated that the powers collectively of the 
Commonwealth do not permit the development of an integrated economic policy. The Committee in paragraph 150 went on: 
The question is not one of transferring to the Commonwealth specific powers consciously left with the States under the Constitution, but of allocating between the Commonwealth and the States the power necessary to fulfil a responsibility of government which did not exist when the Constitution was originally framed but which, in the Committee's view, is now generally accepted in the light of developments since Federation . . . 
The Committee went on specifically to suggest that the Commonwealth should have concurrent legislative powers over capital issues, consumer credit and rates of interest charged in connection with the borrowing of money on the security of land. Most of the topics that are subsumed in the matter raised by the Leader of the Opposition today relate to economic powers. We are gratified to find that apparently what was thought to be a restrictive clause in the Constitution is now regarded as having much wider ambit. 
I want to mention 2 matters in particular which seem to me to point to the need, even today - this is for the benefit of the honourable member for Berowra - for this Government to take to itself, to clothe itself with greater economic powers, because unless these powers are taken the policies which a government claims to be pursuing in one direction are made abortive or are nullified by the lack of powers in another direction. Nowhere was this more clear than in 2 documents that came down with this Budget - the White Paper on national income and the report of the Reserve Bank for 1971. The White Paper on national income showed very clearly that whilst the Government had tried to impose a restrictive monetary policy in Australia nevertheless there was a vast increase in the return going to finance companies. The Commonwealth had powers which it could exercise through the banks but it had no ability to apply those powers to consumer credit and other levels of credit. 
What was contained in the report of the Reserve Bank seems to me to be rauch more significant in the long run because it suggests that the Government can at least do something about consumer credit if it wants to. Reading between the lines, the decision of the High Court seems to point to that also. What was said by the Reserve Bank to some extent is amplified in a 2- page article that appears in today's 'Australian Financial Review' on pages 2 and 3. Referring to the comments of Professor Harry Johnson in the United Kingdom the article in essence seems to me to state that just as it was thought many years ago that a country could export its unemployment in pre-Keynesian days, now what can be exported is inflation. Unless measures are taken by any country to look after its inflow of capital - capital markets these days are much more integrated than they were previously - the policy which it tries to. pursue internally can be set at nought by the economic power of countries and also by the highly integrated nature of capital markets, particularly the flow of capital into that country. The Reserve Bank at least went on record as saying that whilst we had been endeavouring to apply a restrictive monetary policy internally to some extent the effect of that attempt had been reduced by the large flow into this country of funds from overseas. This is one of the matters that my colleague, the Leader of the Opposition, has suggested needs attention. He never intended that this should apply to restrictive practices only. 
The decision of the High Court seemed to point to the fact that we have powers at our disposal which we have not used. I do not suggest that even with the light that has been thrown now on those sections by the judgment of the High Court this Government has very much intention to act on this matter. But if it does not do so, its inaction will have serious consequences indeed for the future development both internally and externally of the Australian economy. The same kind of difficulty that the article by Professor Johnson referred to is pointed out also in the most recent report of the Bank of International Settlements. lt is that, if a preponderance of economic power exists in one part of the world or another a country is able to impact upon the economies of other parts of the world by reason of its ability to use overseas capital markets. In Australia we have always been very sensitive since the depression to our economic destiny being controlled from outside the country. In the period subsequent to the 1930s we thought that we had learnt to overcome that. 
One point that was clear throughout the report of the Constitutional Review Committee was that economic circumstances tend to change all the time, the pattern of trade changes, the people from whom we buy and to whom we sell change, the nature of the internal economy changes and the nature of international integration changes. These are all matters that require a government to arm itself internally with greater powers of economic integration than certainly is currently the case in Australia. That is what the Opposition has sought to point to in the matter of public importance that it has proposed for discussion this afternoon. It is not just that the judgment on one section of an act has set at nought the restrictive trade practices tribunal, but that during the course of the observations made in that judgment reference is made to powers which it was previously thought could not be exercised but which apparently can be exercised. I am suggesting that probably we have to move even further in the quite forseeable future than was suggested in the observations of the learned judges. After all, they are lawyers but many of the matters that are contained in the judgment and which are being debated this afternoon deal with the question of the proper use of economic powers both internally and externally in order to secure the best integration of our internal economy. That, at least, is something that my Party supports and that is why we have taken the opportunity this afternoon to draw attention to some other heads of power to which this Government should give its attention. 
On behalf of the Opposition I wish to indicate that the Opposition intends to oppose these Bills, which have in common the purpose of increasing the charges for certain postal and telephone services and, in the case of the broadcasting and television provisions, the cost of radio licences, television licences or what has been described as the combined broadcasting and television licence. The figures in the Budget Papers indicate that the increased television and radio licence fees are expected to yield the Government an addi tional$1 5m in revenue. It appears that the increase in postal and telegraph charges is expected to yield something like $50m this financial year and, I think, $90m in a full financial year. 
On behalf of the Opposition I intend to move an amendment which indicates the views it has on, firstly, the need for a reexamination of the administrative structure of the Post Office and, secondly, the fact that if what is sometimes described as decentralisation, accelerated development or selective decentralisation is to be taken seriously the charging of special rates or not charging increased rates for the provision of telephone services to businesses in country areas could aid that process considerably.I shall read the Opposition's proposed amendment now lest I run out of time to do so in the course of debating some of the other matters I want to raise. The amendment is to the motion for the second reading of the Post and Telegraph Bill 1971.I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because it does not provide for (a) the severance of the Postmaster-General's Department from the control of the Public Service Board and (b) the application of special telephone charges in those areas designated for accelerated development by agreement between the Commonwealth and any State and its Authorities'. 
I will elaborate on the details of the amendment later. Firstly, however,I should like to say something generally about its overall significance. 
As everybody knows, the Post Office is a highly significant business undertaking. It was well described in the'Current Affairs Bulletin' of 23rd March 1970. The article stated: 
It is our biggest business and at the same time our biggest Government Department - an awkward combination at the best of times. It is our biggest provider of utility services, biggest single employer of labour, and one of the biggest consumers of public finance. By any standards the sheer number of communications between people made possible every day by its staff and equipment represents a contribution of tremendous importance to the modern developing community. Yet the APO does not win much praise for this better-known and more routine aspect of its work. 
I have always had great admiration for the various services which the Post Office provides and I have always found its staff to be competent, courteous and wishing to perform the duties for which they are paid although sometimes, like everybody else, they are not satisfied with their conditions of payment. 
Nevertheless, the Post Office is an undertaking which now has an annual turnover in excess of $800m. By far the major part of the total financial activity of the Post Office is in the telephone section, which is described as telecommunications. The postal services, although important, are not as significant in respect of total finances as is the telecommunications side of the business. This is evident from figures which are published in the 1970 edition of the 'Financial and Statistical Bulletin'. I do not think the 1971 issue will be available until mid-October. The article indicates that, at the end of June 1970, the Post Office had fixed assets which totalled $2, 174m. So, by any standards,, it is a mammoth undertaking. In the same financial year, its earnings were $625m; I think that last year they increased to about $800m. The activities of the Post Office in both its accumulated capital position and its annual transactions are highly significant and I think this is indicated by the breakdown of the various accounts. This is shown firstly as a Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement and then, in separate statements for the postal . service and the telecommunications service. This breakdown in accounts bears out what I suggested, that is, of total turnover $161 m was on the postal side and $463m was on the telecommunications services. In the provision of capital, again by far the greatest amount required is for the expansion of the telecommunications service. 
Another item which is of some significance and which is difficult to evaluate is the activities of the Post Office in relation to broadcasting. Budgeting must take into consideration the interrelationship between Post Office accounts. For instance, the Post Office performs some services for other Government departments and provides certain services for the broadcasting and television networks. There have been changes in the method of presentation of the finances pf the Post Office. I think this is the third year - certainly it is the second year - in which the accounts have been presented in what is called the one-line form and all that is shown of the total activities of the Post Office is what it might require from Consolidated Revenue rather than from its own resources. Some years ago, there was introduced into the accounting system the device of charging the Post Office for interest on capital employed in its undertakings. I do not want to go into the merits or demerits of this argument. I have raised this point in the House for 10 years or more and 1 must confess that I remain unshaken as to the logic or Ulogie of this method of accounting. I am not persuaded by those who suggest that it is good accountancy to load this kind of burden on to the Post Office- This year, the payment of interest on capital to the Treasury by the Post Office is estimated at $141,800,000 which by any standards is a significant amount to pay when compared with a total annual turnover in the region of $800m. 
Another rather curious mixture of economic doctrines is found when costing the services of the postal side separately from telecommunications. The postal services show a loss, but this is because it provides certain services such as sending Press telegrams, newspapers and periodicals at a charge which is less than the service costs. This was done in other days with the explanation that it aided cultural or religious groups in the community, aided the dissemination of knowledge, and so on. Nevertheless, the fact that this is done places a burden on the finances of the postal side. According to the figures provided by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  if the increases proposed in the Budget were not made, the postal services would sustain a loss of about $20m. The telecommunications service, even allowing for the fact that by far the greatest part of the interest payment is assigned to this section - in 1969-70, for instance, of a total interest charge of $106m, S90m was paid by the telecommunications section - still snowed a profit of $21m. Telecommunications services made a profit last year and, according to figures provided by the Minister in his second reading speech, with the increases proposed it will make a profit this year of about S50m. 
It seems clear that whilst there may be some logic in increasing the charges on the postal services, there certainly is no logic whatsoever in increasing the charges on the telecommunications side, as that section already shows a profit by any kind of reckoning. The Opposition has suggested that as this section is paying its way perhaps the principle of subsidy might seriously be applied to try to aid decentralisation or what is called accelerated development in the report of the Decentralisation Advisory Committee. These are matters that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has raised quite strenuously for a number of years. 
I wish to quote from the report of the Decentralisation Advisory Committee on the Selection of Places Outside the Metropolis of Melbourne for Accelerated Development published on 26th September 1967. It is now some 4 years old. I am sure that every Country Party member believes that there ought to be development outside the city areas and that there ought to be some translation of the surplus populations of the cities into the salubrious atmosphere of the country areas. One has to use the word 'atmosphere' very carefully these days when ons talks about cities. Certainly, the country areas are still superior. On page 40 under the heading Telephone and Teleprinter Charges' the Committee states: 
The fillip to decentralisation that would follow reduced telephone and teleprinter charges was stressed by almost every industrialist interviewed by the Committee. 
Subscriber Trunk Dialling and teleprinter services have brought about considerable savings to decentralised industries and commercial undertakings, but notwithstanding this, the Committee believes that many who need to be in constant contact with their customers would hesitate to set up operations in decentralised areas because of the handicap suffered as compared with their Melbourne counterparts. It is sot only the cost of the outgoing calls, but the cost and inconvenience of metropolitan-based associates needing to effect trunk line calls that in many cases result in  a  loss of business. 
The Committee recommended as a proposition that each place be recognised for charging purposes as an extension of the Melbourne metropolitan area whereby rentals would be equated and calls between these places and Melbourne charged as for local calls. This is what the Opposition is suggesting in part of its amendment. It suggests that rather than increase telephone charges at this stage, which are already profitable in aggregate, some consideration should be given to the heavy liability placed on industry which might like to shift from the city to the country but connect by reason of the fact that much of its telephone communications for supplies and other matters still have to be made from its decentralised situation to Melbourne. It was stated in both the Victorian and New South Wales reports on decentralisation that this was a considerable factor in deciding whether industry went to country areas. For instance, the report of the Development Corporation of New South Wales on Selective Decentralisation tabled almost 2 years later on 24th March 1969 states at page 62: 
As for telephone costs, these concerned country industrialists even more than telephone inconvenience. Seventy-nine companies (91 per cent) considered that the additional costs accruing from their location were a disadvantage (predominantly major). Only seven companies indicated that they enjoyed a cost advantage from being located in the country. 
Metropolitan companies also considered that the additional telephone costs would amount to a disadvantage if they, were located in the country (and continued to supply their present market). Thirty companies (96 per cent) considered that it would constitute a disadvantage. Only one company considered that it would make no difference. 
In reply to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition in this House on Wednesday, 8th September 1971, the PostmasterGeneral stated inter alia: 
At that time I pointed out some of the difficulties and I will not repeat them. Because of the representations received outside the House the Post Office has been studying this matter. I have not yet received a report. 
The Opposition would have thought that by reason of having this matter under study the Government would have made the situation even more desperate because of the increases that are now contemplated. 
That is part of the reason why the Opposition opposes the measures that are presently before the House. Another reason is that when one looks at broadcasting and television licences, for instance, in aggregate, with the proposed increases, the Government will net approximately $65m. I think that is approximately the contemplated yield this year. The increase is of the magnitude of $15m. The PostmasterGeneral may claim that the cost of providing this service has increased and that the revenue has stayed constant, but surely for the sake of approximately $15m he is being very vexatious in increasing the fees. I would hope that some day in the screening of various advertisements on television which pose the questions: 'Have you paid your television licence fee?' or Would you be embarrassed if the inspector called to see you?', it will be taken into account that nearly everybody has a licence of one kind or another. In my view, it becomes a very moot point whether there is much logic in charging a separate fee for the service that is performed. The amount involved - approximately $65m - would be no great loss if the licence fees were not collected. Surely a case exists for not charging licence fees at all to certain sections of people in the community who are no longer gainfully employed. I think that a little more care should be taken with these kinds of matters. In fact, when one looks at the fact that broadcasting and television, besides entertaining, also serves educational, recreational and cultural purposes, I think it becomes even more silly to suggest that a value can be placed on them and that the licence fee should be so much. Of course, it is true that in this country we have 2 forms of broadcasting and television. We have the commercial system on the one hand and the national system on the other hand. The commercial undertakings like to claim that they provide their programmes free to the person who avails himself of them. That is not quite true. When one looks at the cost of those services and also at the sources of revenue of the stations one sees that the costs come out of the pockets of the public per medium of advertisements. To my mind, some of the advertisements are very distasteful and untrue and in many respects often undo the advantages that educational programmes are supposed to give to the community, particularly to its younger members. I believe most television advertising in Australia to be entirely anti-intellectual. As I have said in this House before, I have an inbuilt resistance to buying anything that I see advertised on television. I sometimes think that if we were to have some mechanism not for rating the programmes but for rating the advertisements, those clever gentlemen who devise the advertisements might be appalled by what the public really thinks of their talents. I make that point in passing. 
I wish to deal with another part of the amendment I have moved on behalf of the Opposition. I refer to the severance of the Postmaster-General's Department from the control of the Public Service Board. If I may again take as an example the Australian Broadcasting Commission, whilst it is inter-related to some extent on the technical side with the Postmaster-General's Department, it nevertheless  operates separately as a commission. I know that at one time one of my colleagues wanted the reverse to be the case. He wanted the Australian Broadcasting Commission to be brought directly under the control of the Postmaster-General's Department. I suggest that the reverse situation should apply to the Postmaster-General's Department. Because of the skill of its undertaking and because emphasis seems to be placed on its role as a business rather than as a utility, perhaps the time has come when serious consideration should be given to altering its administrative structure. Within my own Party we have some difference of view as to whether or not there should be only one commission It has been suggested that perhaps there should be 2 commissions, that perhaps the telephone activities should be separated from the postal activities. Whilst to some degree these activities are related, they are distinctive. 
As has been indicated, by far the biggest part of the activity of the Postal Department is in the telephone section. Everybody must admire the way in which our telephone services have improved in recent years. A lot of that improvement has taken place under the administration of the present Postmaster-General. I must confess to having found him to be a very agreeable person in the occupancy of his office. He does not always give one what one wants but if within the framework within which the Minister operates there is a possibility of acceding to a request he will go to no end of trouble to try to meet it. 1 understand that the Minister will not occupy his present position for very much longer. I am not talking politically; I understand that he does not want the position again. In the rather long period that he has been the Postmaster-General he has seen considerable changes, both technically and in the growth of Australia's population. 
One of Australia's difficulties is its geography. This is a country of more than 3 million square miles with a relatively small population. Yet within a matter of seconds one can dial from one capital city to any other capital city. Virtually throughout every State there is a network of communication within which a connection can be made in a few seconds. Very rarely are there difficulties in obtaining a successful connection. The only problem is that there are many numbers to dial between the time one has the STD number and the time when one has finished dialing what might be a 9 number combination. From reading some of the documentsI understand that there are proposals to have a push button or typewriter key action rather than the present dialing system. All these improvements cost money. 
The annual provision of $200m for capital expansion indicates the role which this service plays. It plays an important role also in television relays. I must confess that I was astonished some months ago when I found how profitable the Overseas Telecommunications Commission was. It is another activity allied with the PostmasterGeneral's Department. This service puts Australia in contact with any part of the world within minutes. Again the Post Office plays an important part in the satellite programmes which we receive on television. All these things have been done reasonably satisfactorily under the existing arrangements. Maybe some people would argue that that is a reason for leaving the Department as it is. So many problems are involved in the technical field, in the provision of manpower and capital, and in the ecological area that we should ask ourselves whether the undertaking should still be conducted in the same old departmental way. I know that there are differences of opinion as to change among those who are employed in the post office. The clerical officers seem more satisfied with the present situation than do those who might be described as the manual operatives. 
These matters should be examined. During the last debate on the Budget we suggested that the Government should take the opportunity to set up a select committee to look at these questions in depth and to take evidence from interested people in the community. That has not been done. 
We have now taken this opportunity to move an amendment in similar terms. On behalf of the Opposition I indicate that we are opposed to all the measures before us principally because of what they have in common, that is, they increase the charges to the public, whether as individuals or as commercial businesses, for the services of the Post Office. To us this seems to run contrary to what is described as the overall strategy of the Budget, that is, the halting of inflation. Many of these charges can only aggravate inflation. 
In the December quarter of the consumer price index there was a significant increase. This was the beginning of the acceleration of inflation which continued during 1970-71. When the statistics were examined it was found that the greatest single contributing factor in the increase in the December quarter was the charges which had been imposed in the 1970-71 Budget. 
It seems to me that this Budget does likewise. It increases charges the impact of which will be felt not only by individuals whose purchasing power will be reduced unless they can increase their income but also by business undertakings which have the ability to pass on the increased charges. To say the least, this Budget will accelerate inflation. That is why all through this Budget debate we have suggested that if the Government is concerned about inflation, as it says, it is certainly adopting rather curious processes to halt that process. The measures it has adopted have increased the prices of essential goods and services in the community. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett) Is the amendment seconded? 
On behalf of the Opposition I reaffirm our opposition to this measure but I conserve valuable man minutes by not calling for a division. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and I at least give him the credit of believing that industrial unrest is not solved by creating large-scale unemployment. But I point out that the actual unemployment at the end of August was nearly 62,000 and, when seasonally adjusted, was 75,000, representing a potential weekly loss of  2i  million to 3 million man-hours. Is he concerned about the loss of man-hours arising from unemployment as he apparently is concerned about the loss of man-hours arising from industrial unrest? Will he consult with his colleagues, the Minister for Labour and National Service and the Treasurer, because it does seem that the strategy of the Budget is not working out successfully so far as the labour market is concerned, as is indicated by the widening gap between the number of unemployed and the number of unfilled vacancies? For instance, in the categories of semi-skilled and unskilled-manual, there are 27,610 males unemployed and 6,500 vacancies. 
The Opposition supports these measures, which seek to make adjustments to the superannuation payments made to former contributors to the Commonwealth superannuation fund, the defence forces retirement benefits scheme and the parliamentary retiring allowances scheme. These measures will not affect the present contributors to these funds because the payments are made entirely by the Commonwealth nor will they affect the activities of the funds in any way insofar as existing pensioners are concerned. In an explanatory memorandum that was circulated at the time these Bills were introduced it was pointed out that the estimated cost in a full year of these proposals would be $15.5m and that in 1971-72 it would be $ 11.6m. A footnote to the memorandum states that the net cost to the Budget in 1971-72 has been estimated to be $6.3m. It seems a large part of the cost of the superannuation pension increases has been met by the Post Office and other authorities outside of the Budget provisions. So some $5. 3m of the estimated $11.6m increased expenditure will not be borne directly by the Budget but by principally the Post Office and such authorities as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. Some of those authorities have separate funds. But, insofar as the expenditure to be borne by the Post Office is concerned it will be a charge on the future revenue of that undertaking. 
According to the 1968-69 report of the Superannuation Board, which is the latest report available, there were 25,997 pensioners at the end of June 1969. The number then was near enough to 26,000 and presumably it is still much the same. The report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board for the year ended June 1970 shows that there were 5,533 pensions in force at 30th June 1969. I understand, although I do not have the accurate figure, that there are some 100 present recipients of pensions from the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Fund. Some of these recipients are former members and some are widows of members. Of course, that is the position with the other 2 funds also; some of the pensions are payable to widows and not to contributors. 
There are one or two observations that I would like to make about these measures. The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  as Minister assisting the Treasurer when introducing these Bills said that the last adjustment of pensions payable under the Acts we are considering was in 1967. He went on to observe that in the intervening period there had been significant changes in the cost of living which, in particular, had affected adversely the purchasing power of those pensions in existence at the time of the last increase. All that one can «ay about these 31,000 to 32,000 fortunate people receiving these pensions is that they are in a much better position than are most other people in the community as far as adjustments in their incomes due to the effects of inflation are concerned. I suppose it is right enough that those who put in SI in a particular year thinking that it would give them a certain entitlement on retirement would envisage that the entitlement would have a certain purchasing power. But when there is a continuance of inflation, as there has been in Australia over the last 10 years, at a rate in excess of  2i  per cent per annum, obviously in a 10 year period something like one-third - this is a compounded figure - of the real value of the pension has been eaten away. Of course, this raises the very significant question of what we do about incomes in retirement of those who may not have been fortunate enough to have been contributors to funds or who may merely have savings and are forced to look after themselves or those who might have insurance payments or annuities or something of that kind. There is no automatic adjustment made to those payments. In fact, there is no automatic adjustment to the payments under these Acts. The adjustment depends in a sense on an act of grace by the Government. 
The Minister went on to observe that these adjustments are made on what he described as a notional basis. It is somehow determined that if  Mr Jones  who had been a clerk of a certain description in 1955 had retired not in 1955 but in 1971, for the grade of work he was doing he would now be receiving this sort of salary and could have expected to receive this kind of pension. An attempt is made to work out some system that would show that had such a person retired today this is the pension he would have received but because he retired some years ago he is getting only this pension and, therefore, the Government proposes to build it up or partly improve on it. The Minister said that the Government now has serious reservations about the results produced by applying the notional salary method. This is the third occasion now that this type of adjustment has been made and the Government decided to adopt the method again as pensioners and others on their behalf had indicated on many occasions that they favoured this method and had every expectation that it would be applied again. 
The Minister expressed reservations about making adjustments on that basis in the future. He said: 
The method is however complex in its operation and close examination has shown that it generates anomalies and inequities between pensioners. The Government proposes, therefore, to examine simpler methods of adjustment which would produce more equitable results with a view to future application on a regular basis. 
I would have preferred the Minister to have spelled out in more detail what these alternative approaches might be. Here is one of those occasions when we could say: Why not throw this matter open to some sort of joint inquiry or special committee before which people concerned can give evidence? This also raises the point upon which I began talking this afternoon. At least these people are relatively fortunate when compared with the rest of the community. In my view serious consideration has to be given to those who are contributors now to all these funds and to those who are contributors to so-called private funds in which 'private' means that they are schemes established by various firms for the benefit of their employees. 
It seems that increasingly there is a tendency to suggest that these schemes should have a kind of escalator clause in them which would provide that the payment should be adjusted according perhaps to changes in the cost of living or by some method which would allow the people in these schemes to get some share of the increased productivity of the community. Also it is being recognised increasingly that what we describe as productivity - that is, a bigger output for the same input, to give a simplified definition, because of application of technology, educational systems and so on - in a way is an accrual due to the whole community rather than necessarily being identified with the person who works the machine or performs the function. That is why honourable members on this side of the House have moved on several occasions that these matters should be looked at systematically. I do not intend to move such a motion now because these Bills have fairly limited application; they are confined to present recipients of pensions and do not do anything for those who are still contributors. 
More and more is there talk that there should be a national superannuation scheme. When one looks at the collective statistics that are available, and they are rather unsatisfactory in many respects, one finds that the total number of contributors in the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund at the end of June 1967 was 140,000. It has probably increased significantly since then. There were some thousands of members of the Forces contributing to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and in the case of the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Fund, a much more limited fund, of course, there were something like 200 contributors. However, when one tries to find statistics about other funds it is not easy to get any readily available answers. One can get details about State superannuation funds for teachers and other State employees and one can get details about local government funds. In this vast field of the private funds a lot of mystery surrounds the obtaining of statistics. I think most of us receive that quite useful publication issued by the superannuation funds themselves. From memory I think there are about 30,000 separate such schemes in existence. The only thing that most of them have in common is that they have to conform to certain kinds of conditions so that contributions to them will be allowed as deductions for income tax purposes. It is an indirect kind of control but it is not really very satisfactory in aggregate. 
An inquiry was undertaken in Victoria some years ago into the portability of superannuation. We ourselves passed legislation in this House recently affecting the ability to transfer from one fund to another when transferring from one sort of employment to another without having to commence contributions all over again. It was designed to enable people to transfer some of their rights and not have to pay higher rates because they were going into a new fund at a later age, and so on. It was around that kind of problem that Victoria undertook a study. It invited  Mr Coward,  I think his name was, from Canada to look into this matter and as part of that investigation there was arranged a comprehensive examination of all the funds in existence in Victoria as far as they could be found. I think it showed that in aggregate about only one-third of the total community is covered by superannuation funds of one kind or another. Some of the funds are very satisfactory; some of them give very limited benefit indeed. But at least more than one-half and close to twothirds of the total number of income recipients in the community are not covered by any sort of superannuation scheme. This is one reason why at least a national scheme would be far more comprehensive than any of the existing schemes are. 
As the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has indicated in a document which he issued recently, there may have to be some kind of bridging period and some kind of contracting out provisions so that if a person thought he was near the end of his working life and thought that he had better adhere to the scheme he was in rather than go into some new one he would have the right to do so. I understand that that was the practice followed in the United Kingdom, but whatever is the final solution the problem is certainly very complicated. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  one or two other honourable members and I happen to be on a committee which at the moment is investigating the future of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. That has been quite a fascinating inquiry in many ways but it is really only a microcosm of what is quite a vast problem. That is why I urge the Government seriously to consider setting up an expert committee in this matter that could take evidence from all sorts of people including representatives of this vast array of private funds. 
In nearly every one of his last 4 or 5 annual reports the Insurance Commissioner -  Mr Caffin,  the Commonwealth Actuary, is the Insurance Commissioner - has observed that the number of forfeitures that have to be made by contributors to many of these private superannuation funds are quite unsatisfactory. There is quite a high rate of dropout by contributors simply because persons who have been in one fund have changed their employment and cannot transfer their right to another fund and so have cashed in or in some cases, have not cashed in. In fact in some funds a person really has no right to cash in if he severs his employment. 
All these things, to my mind, need very thorough investigation before we can embark in any satisfactory way upon a comprehensive national scheme. It may take a long time to investigate these matters. The inquiry of the Joint Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation, which is working in a limited sphere has extended over nearly a year. Of course, members of the Committee are limited as to time. We have other duties as well. It may well take anything from  2  years to examine thoroughly the way in which a national superannuation scheme should be introduced. I know that for some curious reason there seems to be a division of opinion on the Government side about whether there should be a scheme. With all respect to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  I think he has a rather closed mind on this very important question. I hope that he will remove some of those prejudices and bow a little to the opinions of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in this matter. If there is a case against a fund, he is entitled to argue that case and would be able to do so if we had a committee of inquiry. 
It well may be that after a thorough examination of the whole situation we would decide that we would do better to leave alone what we have, but I am afraid that I do not think I could come to that decision because I do not think the community in total can contemplate for very much longer two-thirds of the working population on the day they retire at  65  years having no prospect before them but to be continuant recipients of social service benefits. That is really the situation which faces the community and that is why pensions become a very political matter. The annual reports of the Director for Social Services, in which there are quite valuable statistics, show that there is a higher proportion of ladies reaching  60  and men reaching  65  years who qualify automatically for the pension than was the case some years ago. Of course, people now live longer and the proportion of the population that is of those ages is increasing; I think it is now in the region of  11  per cent, or one in every nine. Those people face the prospect of drawing the pension for about  20  years. The majority of people who draw the pension have no income except that pension. 
A national superannuation scheme would make payments to everybody who contributed. There would have to be a certain bridging period, because once a fund is started a person cannot contribute to it for a week and expect a lifetime benefit from it. There has to be some kind of bridging process. The Canadian scheme has been quoted. We could determine the minimum amount which we think everybody should receive, and to the extent that they did not receive that amount either through the normal social service machinery or from a fund we could pay them directly out of Consolidated Revenue. But ultimately everyone would be entitled automatically on retirement to something that had relationship to the salary or wage that he received in the last several years of his employment. In addition the sum that he would be entitled to on the day he retired would have to maintain its purchasing power, and we might even allow for some sharing in the increased productivity of the community. 
That is what is involved in this question. It is really a highly complex socioeconomic problem and it should not become simply one of political argument. This is one of those matters in relation to which we should sit down in a spirit of goodwill between all sections of the community and weigh one kind of interest against another, and it would seem to me that a committee of inquiry perhaps would be the proper way to encompass that. That is perhaps getting a long way from the measures that are before us. But at least the Minister indicated that as far as these  3  funds were concerned he was not satisfied that the method that we are now endorsing is the best way of making adjustments. I have tried to widen that proposition and to suggest that whatever may apply in that limited field also applies with much more force to the community as a whole, particularly to that vast section which at the moment is not covered in any way by membership of a fund of one kind or another. The Opposition offers no resistance to the passage of the Bill.' I would hope that the Minister for the Army who is sitting at the table and acting for the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  might at least observe one or two of the points that have been made and perhaps they may even penetrate into the mysterious depths of the Treasury itself. 
On behalf of the Opposition I indicate that we oppose this legislation because it is our belief that the collection of payroll tax ought to have been retained by the Commonwealth. If the States want additional money as apparently many of them do; by increasing this tax, which will in future be in their hands, from 2± per cent to 3i per cent, on last year's figures this would mean that over $100m will be collected. It is our belief that instead the Commonwealth should increase its reimbursements to the States by that amount. I want to say something about the operation of the payroll tax and the rigmarole or contrivance that is now being used to continue this form of taxation under the control of the States. Payroll tax has never been anything but a Federal tax since its inception in, I think, 1941, when it was introduced by a Labor government. At that time it related to payment of child endowment for the second and subsequent children. As child endowment payments and social service payments generally have been extended there is no longer a direct connection between payroll tax and the payment of child endowment. 
Payroll tax has become part of the revenue system of the Commonwealth. Last year about $300m was collected in payroll tax. As we all know there is considerable dissatisfaction from time to time on the part of the States over the reimbursement of money paid to them by the Commonwealth. We all know that the most significant tax - income tax - as it is imposed on individuals and companies, resides solely with the Commonwealth. There seems to be no intention on the part of this Government to relinquish it. It is the platform of the Australian Labor Party that income tax on individuals and companies should remain with the Commonwealth. At least we have our policy on this in writing while this Government only has it in the operation of the present system. 
I draw the attention of the House to the interesting information about Commonwealth and State financial relations contained in the document 'Commonwealth Payments to or for the States 1971-72' which was tabled in this House with the Budget Papers. That document sets out the history of Commonwealth and State financial relations since the beginning of Federation. There is quite a considerable amount of detail set out in this document which clearly indicates that when the question of the responsibility for the collection of income tax being returned in part to the States was raised the present Government said: 'No go. We will keep it'. On page 13 and subsequent pages in this document there is considerable detail from the time of the 1970 Premiers Conference setting out first the legal challenge on payroll tax. I will say something about this later on. It also refers to the cessation of the receipts duty tax that the States had attempted to levy but which the High Court determined they could not levy because it was in the nature of an excise. There is also a section which deals with the transfer of payroll tax to the States. I want to say something about each of those aspects. 
The payroll tax as it applied from 1941 onwards was levied by the Commonwealth on something like two-thirds of the total wages paid in Australia annually. Details on how it is collected are set out in 'Taxation Statistics' published by the Commissioner of Taxation. In this document on page 191 and subsequent pages figures are set out on a monthly basis showing that there are about 58,000 separate payers of payroll tax. That is to say there are about 58,000 firms on whom this tax is imposed. This tax is levied monthly on wages exceeding $ 1,000m or on an annual basis the tax base is something like SI 2,000m. The figures I am quoting are for the year ended 30th June 1970 when the total wage and salary payments in Australia were in the region of $ 18,000m. As I said the payroll tax applies to two-thirds of all wages paid in Australia. The main exception to the imposition of payroll tax is the wages bill for the Commonwealth. Apparently the Commonwealth could not see much logic in imposing a tax which would be payable to itself. All Commonwealth instrumentalities are exempted from this tax. The exemption was not extended to the States or to local government authorities whose wages are subject to payroll tax if in individual instances the annual wage bill exceeds $20,000. 
A few minutes ago I took the trouble of telephoning the Victorian Treasury Department because that State is imposing payroll tax and legislation to this effect is now before the Victorian Legislative Assembly. I asked that Department whether it was intended to impose a tax on State undertakings. The reply I received was yes. Apparently the reason for this is that it helps in the collection of statistics. However it will become a rather large bookkeeping exercise. For example, Victoria will collect tax from the payroll of the teachers. 
There is still apparently no intention to tax the payroll for Commonwealth employees, even though the States are now imposing this tax. This seems to me to be a rather curious system to say the least. What the States will not do is tax local government authorities. To me this is a sensible move and it is part of the arrangement agreed upon at the 1971 Premiers Conference when it was decided that the States could have control of payroll tax. In essence what the Opposition is saying is really that the same system will operate except that instead of payroll tax being a 
Commonwealth tax it will now be a State tax. What is happening is that the reimbursements that the Commonwealth would have made to the States under the old formula are to be reduced by the amount ot the payroll tax at a level of 21 per cent. So again the net effect is nil to start with but the States now have the ability to increase this tax if they want to and they have chosen to increase it by 40 per cent. It has been increased from 2± per cent to 3i per cent. This increase of 40 per cent in the rate of tax should yield, on the basis of collecting $300m a year, something like an additional $120m for the States in a full financial year. It has been said, although I suggest that it is not spelt out clearly, that if the States choose to increase the payroll tax their reimbursement will not be affected and that this is a growth' tax - a pleasant word - which the States will now have and which they can spend as they like. I do not know how this will be ajudged in the end - whether it will be X plus so many dollars instead of just X dollars. This seems to me to be one of the great mysteries in the scheme. We have a practical example of the yield from payroll tax and a theoretical exercise still as to what reimbursment the Commonwealth will make, supposedly ignoring the growth element on the part of the States. 
Two or three of the States have imposed the tax already. I understand that in South Australia it has been imposed on the wage bill at the rate of  31  per cent, not at the former rate of  2i  per cent. On the basis of this anticipated revenue, South Australia has made considerable improvements in public expenditure, particularly in the field of education. Of course, this shows the very real need of the States for extra reimbursement but it still leaves open to question whether this is the best way of bridging the bill. I do not know whether an additional 1 per cent on the wage bill of South Australian industry is necessarily a healthy thing at this stage of the economy but it certainly is the only device which was open to South Australia, unless the Commonwealth was more generous in its reimbursement. 
In 1967 or thereabouts, the State of Victoria challenged the right of the Commonwealth to impose payroll tax on the employees of that State. The High Court ruled in favour of the Commonwealth, suggesting that the Commonwealth did have that right. I do not know whether  Sir Henry  Bolte took that action to try to have the whole system declared invalid or because he believed that it was a futile thing for the Commonwealth to impose a tax on State instrumentalities. However, he does not seem to have changed this practice now that Victoria has the right to impose this tax. The tax is imposed upon the very organisations on whose behalf  Sir Henry  Bolte challenged the Commonwealth in the High Court and those organisations must still go through the rigmarole of having a grant paid to them at the beginning of each year and having to return part of it to consolidated revenue by way of payroll tax. Again, 1 leave it to the imagination of people as to whether that is a rational way to conduct one's finances or whether it will salve anybody's conscience. However this is a tax that the States have for themselves. The Opposition still feels that it would have been better had this tax remained the responsibility of the Commonwealth, which could collect the tax, and this is our motive in moving the amendment. This would have been a sounder system administratively. If necessary, this is the sort of tax that could be used as what has been described in public financial discussions as an automatic regulator. If the economy needed to be dampened down the Government could suddenly increase the rate of payroll tax or if it were necessary to stimulate the economy, the tax could be reduced. To my mind, sometimes these are necessary fiscal weapons and now that the States are operating this tax the tax could possibly move in the opposite direction to that which, on a national basis, might be the soundest way to move. 
Yesterday a national superannuation scheme was discussed in this House. Whatever may be the obstinacy or obduracy of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in this matter, in the long run such a scheme must be introduced in Australia. Probably the area where it could most easily be applied would be in respect of the contribution from industry and on the basis of the payroll tax system. However, the Commonwealth is handing this tax to the States and the present central administration will be abandoned. I still do not know whether it would not have been preferable - even if the States normally had this right - to have done what used to be done in the past with income tax, when the States were the collectors for the Commonwealth prior to the uniform taxation arrangements. Perhaps the reverse process could have been employed. The Commonwealth could have been the collector of this tax, as it is now, and simply paid the sum collected to the States at the end of each financial year. Provision could be made for some flexibility, which could be arranged each year at the Premiers' Conference and this would apply if a State wanted to increase the rate. The rate might even vary from one State to another, but some flexibility would enable the States to levy part of the tax themselves. lt has been suggested that there may be some constitutional difficulties which would prevent this because whilst there is no doubt that the Commonwealth has the ability to charge such a tax the Constitution is so written that if a tax is imposed, it must be imposed equally throughout the Commonwealth. It could not be  2i  per cent in Victoria and 3i per cent in South Australia although, oddly enough, I understand that the rate will be 3i per cent in all States and only  2k  per cent in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Apparently if the Commonwealth imposes a limited tax, it can have a limited application. I am not a constitutional lawyer and I do not propose to argue that point. Nevertheless when examined, this seems to be a rigmarole or a contrivance rather than a genuine attempt to provide a growth tax to the States. This tax certainly does grow because it is linked to the wage bills of the States and during the last 2 or 3 years there has been the spectacle of wages rising at the rate of about 10 per cent or 11 per cent a year. The tax base at least will increase each year. Of course, most of that increase is due simply to the effects of inflation in the community and automatically the  2i  per cent will be levied on a higher amount than previously and the level of the tax will grow. In addition, there has been superimposed upon it a rise of some 40 per cent in the rate at which it is to be applied and it is likely that about $400m will be collected this year. 
The other matter that remains for me to deal with is a rather curious device known as the export rebate scheme. The reason that this is linked to payroll tax is that because Australia has certain contractural obligations under the scheme known as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade limits are placed upon those who adhere to GATT as to what they can do in their external trade with respect to concessions on exports. By some curious logic apparently a business undertaking cannot be exempted by subsidy from direct taxation but it can be exempted from the effect of indirect taxation. Payroll tax apparently has been regarded as an indirect tax. Therefore we have this curious contrivance by which instead of directly paying subsidies to industries to increase their exports we allow those industries a rebate of their payroll tax if they achieve a certain level of export performance superior to what was adjudged in a base period. This kind of provision apparently is still to be continued even though the tax no longer will be a Commonwealth tax. 
In his second reading speech, the Treasurer stated: 
The Bill proposes also to terminate the payroll tax export rebate scheme with effect from the close of the 1970-71  fianancial  year. I have already foreshadowed the later introduction of a separate Bill to provide a system of direct grants based on exports until 30th June 1973 when the present rebate scheme was due to expire. 
We may describe this as another contrivance necessary at the Commonwealth level in order still to be able to pay the payroll tax rebate even though the Commonwealth no longer collects that payroll tax. Certain other difficulties arise in the transition which are described quite adequately in the document entitled 'Commonwealth Payments To or For the States 1971-72'. Under the heading: Transfer of Payroll Tax to States', the document states: 
The Prime Minister indicated that the transfer could only be effected if all the States agreed to take over the tax and to do so on a common date. He said that the Commonwealth would continue to operate the export incentive scheme so as to give exporters the same benefits, based on the payroll tax rate of 2.S per cent, as they enjoyed under the existing scheme. The Commonwealth would continue to impose its own tax in the Territories at the existing rate of 2.5 per cent, with the rate being subject to review in the light of any changes the States might make in their individual rates of tax. 
Whether that implies that once the States have legislated to increase the level of payroll tax to 3i per cent the Common wealth also will increase the  tax to 3i  per cent in its Territories is not specifically stated. But certain other adjustments must be made. The document further states: 
After discussion, it was agreed that the tax would be transferred on the basis that the deductions from the States' financial assistance grants in 1971-72 would be less than the amount of payroll tax receivable by them (at the existing 2.5 per cent rate) by: 
An amount of $20m to be distributed between the States in proportion to payroll tax collections in 1971-72 at the rate of 2.S per cent and a further amount, estimated at the time of the Conference at $2.7m, to be distributed between the 4 less populous States so as to bring their allocations to what they, would have been if the amount of $20m had been distributed in proportion to the financial assistance grants. 
Whether anybody finds it easy to follow that argument, 1 do not know. I have had to read it 4 or 5 times to understand it. Perhaps, listening to it, honourable members will agree that it does appear to be a conundrum. The document continues: 
In addition to the amount, estimated at the time of the Conference at $22.7m, the Commonwealth agreed that it would provide special revenue assistance of $40m in 1971-72 in the form of a. non-recurring grant (see section on 'Other General Revenue Assistance' below). 
An amount equal to the estimated payroll tax payable in respect of non-business activities of local authorities in 1971-72 subsequent to the date of transfer of the tax. 
An amount equal to the administrative expenditure incurred by the States in 1971- 72 as a result of their imposing payroll tax. 
All those kinds of complications are necessary because this device was chosen ' to shift what historically had been, and which constitutionally still could be, a Commonwealth tax. 
Whether all these proposals are justified in the name - I suppose theoretically - of better Commonwealth-State relationships perhaps boggles the mind somewhat. I still think that the procedure would have been much much tidier if the method of collecting payroll tax had been left as it was and if the Commonwealth had negotiated with the States - separately, if it wished - about giving them a bit extra. However, this was thought to be the best way of doing it. A curious backflow which will follow this action is that if the States do increase payroll tax to 31 per cent the payroll tax paid by businesses will be greater but their taxable incomes will be less as a conse- quence. The Commonwealth also will lose revenue in that the amount on which companies are required to pay company tax of 47i per cent to the Commonwealth will be reduced as a result of the increase in payroll tax. 
To my mind, these are the sorts of things that ought to be more clearly thought through when the Commonwealth, in the name of one theory, begins to disturb what has been a sensible enough and practical working arrangement. I can well understand that the States, having been given the right to collect payroll tax and to increase the rate of that tax, must increase it. Again, it is arguable whether that was necessarily the best way of raising another $100m or so in the Australian economy. We have been told on the one hand that the Budget has a certain strategy. Whatever strategy is followed here - and sometimes, to say the least, it is a bit hard to follow - can be nullified to some extent if State government budgets when introduced run in the opposite direction. For reasons of the type that I have illustrated, the Opposition opposes the measures. We do not oppose them because we think that the States should not have additional revenues. We point out that, really, all that is happening is a readjustment and that all that the States have is an ability to impose upon the rest of the community a higher tax in relation to the wages bill. 
1 should like to say a few things about this proposition which the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  rightly describes as being a quite radical change. But what seems to be missing all through the statement is any suggestion that the people who will be vitally affected by this re-organisation have been consulted in advance. I know that quite a number of my colleagues, particularly those in the Queensland area, have already had representations made to them by the people who are likely to be affected. 
 1 am glad to learn at least that there has been some discussion with the staff. But the interesting thing is that what is claimed to be an example of decentralisation actually will turn into further centralisation. Where there are now 56 districts there will be 25 districts. There is the rather astonishing suggestion, too, that whilst this proposal applies to telecommunications activities, a similar study is already under way into activities associated with post offices and mail services in the country. 1 suggest that members of the Australian Country Party should be a little concerned about what is involved here. 
At least it appears that the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  is concerned, and I am glad to know that there is some glimmering in the Country Party of what is involved in this proposal. It is quite easy to say that only 40 people in each of the 25 districts may have to be transferred. But that is 1,000 people out of a total unit of approximately 10,000. Very human problems are involved. If I gleaned anything from some of the things that were said in a debate earlier today, I gather that if one moves from one country town to another it is not easy to dispose economically of one's house, and I do not know what will be the opportunities for acquiring a similar house in the town to which one moves. 
I suggest that this only highlights the things that we suggested in the debate on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill recently. There ought to be a re-examination of the structure of the Post Office. In theory, what is proposed in the re-organisation of the Australian Post Office telecommunications activities seems to me to have some merit, but this does not apply to the way in which it is being handled. In recent times we have had a number of examples of unrest among Post Office staff mainly in the metropolitan areas. I suggest, with all respect to the Postmaster-General, that this proposition will present difficulties for people in country areas. It is intended to close down centres in cities like Cairns and Mackay, and to transfer the activities to cities such as Maryborough. 
Roma is another city which will be affected. I have not had time to study closely the map which is attached to the Minister's statement. All I know is that this proposal was kept reasonably secret. The Postmaster-General paid me the courtesy, as he always does, of providing me with a copy of the statement a couple of hours in advance. Actually, I lost the original copy and he furnished me with another one. But today some of my Queensland colleagues have come to me and said: 'Do you know anything about the changes going on in the Post Office?', because they have already had telephone calls from some of the people who will be affected. It may be that only 35 or 40 people in each district will be affected, but this is a rather bland sort of a way in which to announce this change - to say that it will have some effect on Post Office staff. If it has any effect on Post Office staff I suggest that there should have been closer consultation with them. The PostmasterGeneral said that be has had discussions with the staff associations. Perhaps he has had discussions with the staff associations in Brisbane or Sydney or Melbourne, but this proposition vitally affects people who currently are living in country districts. The Postmaster-General indicated that the re-organisation will begin to operate in the first quarter of 1972. I suggest that he ought to give consideration to consulting with the local people concerned in the particular districts. The implementation of the proposal will mean that people will have to move from the towns where they have lived all their lives and where their children are at school. These people will be told that they have to move. 
In his statement the Postmaster-General made the delicate suggestion that 'normal staff wastage will make minimal the number of employees who may eventually need to be compulsorily transferred'. There are some rather disturbing undertones. I know that the Postmaster-General is not the kind of man who goes into these things suddenly. I suppose that there have been discussions. But certainly in the statement there is no indication that there has been any really serious discussion with the people who will be transferred. It is all right to say that the changes are in accordance with the latest management techniques and so on, but there has been no reference to the human problems which will confront those who may be affected. I do not want to say any more about this proposal this evening because I know that one or two of my colleagues, mainly from Queensland, are deeply concerned about the possible implications which this re-organisation will have for their constituents. I hope that the House will be tolerant and give those honourable members a few minutes in which to speak, even at this late hour tonight. 
The Opposition supports this Bill which will enable that admirable institution, the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, to extend the nature of its activities. As the Minister said, a new export financing facility, to be known as buyers credit, is to be introduced. The Bill also authorises the Corporation to enter into reinsurance arrangements with its counterpart organisations in other countries where this would be useful for Australian exports. Australia increasingly is selling its capital goods overseas rather than relying, as in the past, on primary products and, more latterly, on minerals in various stages of process. 
However, one of the difficulties confronting us is that the countries to which we wish to sell our capital goods are mainly developing countries and often the client is not in a position to pay quickly. He needs to have recourse to a credit transaction and, in the past, EPIC has helped in some of these transactions. However, certain difficulties exist which this Bill proposes to remedy. The Minister explained that, at present, Australian exports of capital goods sold on credit are financed under the suppliers credit system. It is proposed to change the transaction into what is called a buyers credit system. It has been explained that, in essence, this means that the seller of the product in 
Australia is able to be paid in advance.. The credit side of the transaction is then assumed by an Australian finance organisation - principally, the trading banks - and the client at the other end pays by instalments, and EPIC guarantees the bank or the finance institution against any default in payment. This is a healthy kind of improvement on the previous arrangement. 
A brochure has been produced by a similar organisation overseas, known as the Exports Credits Guarantee Department of the United Kingdom. This brochure explains that a system such as the one which is now proposed in this Bill has been in force in the United Kingdom since 1961 and has been most successful in its operation. I draw attention to some statistics that appear in this British publication. They show that about one-third of the United Kingdom's export trade is actually carried on under guarantees of one kind or another which are given by ECGD. Whilst our undertaking in Australia - the Exports Payments Insurance Corporation - has certainly expanded substantially in recent years, it is still a long way from reaching the stage where it assists something like one-third of our export trade. Australia's export trade is in the region of $4,000m; one-third of which is about$1,300m. According to the latest annual report of EPIC the face value of policies current at 30th June 1971 was $511m, which is still far short of one-third of our export trade. 
I suppose one could observe that there certainly are differences between the export trade of a country such as Australia and that of the United Kingdom. The various export insurance authorities that operate under what is known as the Berne Convention have set their faces - I think, sensibly enough - against financing these sorts of insurance transactions unless payment is likely to extend over a longer period of time than is normal. Unless there is some special reason why this should be done, it certainly is silly to finance sales of consumer goods over the long term. The goods are consumed and, if the payment is to be made over several years, it is not a very satisfactory way of transacting business. By comparison with the United Kingdom, a far higher proportion of Australia's exports is still of the consumer goods type, namely, goods that are likely to be used in the same year or within a short period of purchase. 
Nevertheless, these changes are taking place in Australia's trading patterns and at least EPIC has been useful in helping to bridge some of the difficulties which are caused when an overseas client is not in a position to pay for the transaction immediately. I believe that increasingly in the future this is the sort of trade that we must undertake. The various manufacturing industries have pointed out that, over the last several years, there has been an increase in the volume of manufactured goods exported. I think it is still true that a preponderance of these exports go to New Zealand in particular and, to some extent, to the Territory of Papua New Guinea, but Australia is still finding it difficult to secure sales on a scale which is relative to the potential that exists in places such as Indonesia and South East Asia. At least the facility which is proposed in this Bill will enable sales of capital goods, in particular, to those areas. 
The Minister, in the course of explaining in detail the kind of transaction that would be eligible for this assistance, suggested, firstly, that the loan will be made only if the ultimate transaction is of a magnitude of $200,000. There will be certain exceptions. If it can be shown, when the sum is less than that amount, that there is some good reason why the person wanting to buy a product cannot pay, sufficient flexibility exists to allow insurance to be effected and that kind of transaction to be financed. Broadly, however, the transaction must be of a magnitude of $200,000. It is expected that in every case there should be a down payment of at least $20,000. This is a precautionary measure. If credit is too easily available, people sometimes become a little reckless in chasing it and may as a result default in repayment. It is interesting to note that the most recent report of EPIC, the fifteenth annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30th June 1971, tabled only a few days ago, indicated that there was quite a high figure this year for claims that had to be paid. It was a sum of $939,084, although fortunately most of it was subsequently recovered. The 2 places where the transactions took place involving that amount were South Korea and Turkey. The report explains clearly enough that in the case of the transaction in Turkey the claim arose largely as a result of a currency devaluation which took place. 1 do not know what the mechanisms for recovery in these circumstances. I do not know whether we use the facilities of the Australian Department of Trade and Industry in these areas or whether the seller of the goods has to do the chasing of the money himself. Fortunately, most of the money that was at risk subsequently was recovered. Nevertheless, this points to the need for caution in these sorts of transactions. The report also points to the fact that there have been quite a number of changes in the type of business handled by EPIC. I refer particularly to page 4 of the report where it states: 
The success achieved by Australian capital and semi-capital goods manufacturers in gaining overseas contacts was notable, especially in view of disappointing results in earlier years. The Corporation supported 179 tenders for $129m. 
On the average, that would represent approximately $700,000 in each case. The report continues: 
Successful contracts resulted in the issue of 85 policies worth some $44m, spread over 25 countries. The extension of the Corporation's charter to insure business with the Australian External Territories gave our exporters the opportunity to tender for a wide range of equipment to the Bougainville project and secure contracts worth more than $26m. To win these orders against overseas suppliers, matching credit terms of up to 10 years were supported. 
The inference is clear enough: The magnitude of the contracts is quite large and is increasing because the types of clients with whom we deal are seeking longer terms of payment, up to about 10 years. In the past, EPIC had been reluctant to extend its terms of credit for much more than 5 years. It is obvious that account has been taken of longer terms, and there is a new depth, as it were, to the kinds of transactions that can be encompassed. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in his second reading speech referred to projects on quite a substantial scale that might be undertaken. He describes what is referred to as a turnkey project. The Minister said: 
Capital goods transactions encompass, of course, a wide range of possible arrangements between an Australian exporter and an overseas buyer. At one end of the spectrum there is the contract involving merely the supply, of a single piece of capital equipment. At the other end, there is the contract for a turnkey project, that is, the supply, erection and commissioning of a complete production plant. In view of this  a  definition of capital goods has not been specified in the Bill. 
It might include a whole vast procedure of carrying out work in another country of the magnitude of the Snowy Mountains scheme in this country, or the building of a domestic water project where labour and earth moving equipment, as well as capital goods, might be involved. We need to take a kind of venturesome approach if we in Australia are to diversify our trade and at the same time help in development of other parts of the world. If the people of those countries are to attain higher standards of living it is necessary for them to develop new infrastructure and new industries. Australia is in a special position to help them. 
If we look forward, as we should, from, the period of the 1970s to a period between 1980 to 1985, it is likely enough that substantial changes will have occurred in our internal economy and our external trade, which is based upon our internal economy. I think one of the disappointments in Australia in recent years has been the failure to see far enough ahead to grasp the significance of technical and other changes and to realise the possibility that we have to assist the development of the under-developed parts of the world. In the course of his speech, the Minister referred to the need to increase trade in such places as the Pacific islands as well as South East Asia. Some of these Pacific islands will have difficulty in finding employment for their surplus populations. Many of these islands are more like separate nations than merely neighbouring islands. I instance such places as Fiji, the New Hebrides and Tonga, all of which regard themselves as separate nations and therefore experience considerable difficulty if their population increases in relation to the resources which are available. Already, some islands such as Tonga are facing the prospect of serious over-population if their, economies continue in the same kind of subsistence form in which they have developed over recent years. At least Australia is in a position to allow them to develop some basic industries and to provide the equipment. With the economies of such nations being so small they are not in  a  position to pay for the foods except over  a  long period of time. Many of the works undertaken do not become productive for quite a number of years. Therefore, one cannot expect the Australian entrepreneur to have to wait 10 or 12 years to receive payment. That limits his ability to carry out other works with his own resources. This seems to me to be the great virtue of this scheme that is before us. It allows the Australian provider of these facilities to be paid off in order to enable him to provide the same sort of services in other countries or to diversify his activity, to manufacture something else he has both the materials and the manpower to encompass. Whether the foreign country finally makes the payment, becomes a risk accepted by a local financial institution backed by the resources of EPIC. 
Again, I would like to pay tribute to EPIC for the successful nature of its undertakings. It has been in operation now for approximately 15 years. It was established in about 1956. 1 have always applauded its establishment because it is a socialist undertaking, a State owned enterprise stepping in to assume those sorts of risks that private enterprise is sometimes very reluctant to take. Its operations have been highly successful. EPIC aims over a period of years to cover its costs. It is not a profit-making undertaking, except in the sense that it aims to cover all costs associated with its transactions. But it does not aim to pay dividends to shareholders or tax to the Australian Government. It is there to promote Australia's export trade. It has been most successful in doing so, as the annual reports indicate. 
I notice that even last year the Corporation was quite successful as far as wool sales were concerned. One need not speculate upon the difficulties facing that industry at the moment but at least EPIC was able last year to finance transactions of about $50m. The total value of wool policies remained fairly static throughout the year despite the depressed conditions of the industry. There was, however, a shift in the composition of policies with greasy wools share of the total falling by $ 16.7m to $63.4m while the value of processed wool policies rose by $13. 3m to $49. lm. In other words, this facility is enabling Australia to do what many people suggest it should have been doing for a good number of years not just relying on exports of greasy wool but selling more processed wool. 
All I am saying is that EPIC has been successful in the past. How the new function of the Corporation outlined in the Bill develops has yet to be seen. But at least the effect of EPIC has been to allow processing to be done in Australia. It has also been able, by arranging terms of something like 180 days, to sell this product in a market that formerly was not within our reach. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  wants to say something about this buyers' facility. All I suggest is that we will watch with interest how this function works out. I refer to the fact that it has been highly successful in respect of the United Kingdom. I draw attention to the fact that in that country it has been extended not only to cover what might be described as the physical side of things but also to encourage financial transactions between developed countries, such as the United Kingdom, and underdeveloped areas in South East Asia or wherever they may be. I commend that policy to the Government. I suggest that the Government should have a look at it. 
I refer again to the fact that the business of buyers' policy has been operative in the United Kingdom since 1961. We are adopting it in 1971. Perhaps it is a bit belated; nevertheless we have begun this function. I hope that the Corporation will look a little further and see whether the finance type of transaction of a longer term might also be considered. I commend the Bill to the House and I hope that in another 12 months time we will be able to observe from the annual report of EPIC that this new function has been responsible for encouraging even more Australian export trade in the capital goods industries which are so significant to our future economic development. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24-year-old graduate in Building Technology, and Geoffrey Mullen, a 24- year-old graduate in Political Science, are serving a two year gaol sentence for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions, 
That their failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that their imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled will repeal the National Service Act, remove from the record all convictions made under it, and cause Charles Martin and Geoffrey Mullen, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released and cease all further prosecutions under it. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members oi the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 192S, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the consensus of international, political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I desire to address a question to the Prime Minister. Did Australia at the recent meetings of the International Monetary Fund indicate any firm view on the following matters: Expansion in the amount of special drawing rights and their allocation; variations in the price of gold; the floating of the Australian exchange rate, either managed or freely determined, sometimes described as dirty or clean; the removal of the surcharges on American imports; and control over capital movements? In particular, have discussions taken place separately with Japan as to future trading terms with that country and the determination of exchange rates as between the yen and the Australian dollar? 
Just briefly, I should like for once to praise the Government for its action in this direction. This is one of the very few occasions on which the Government seems to be acting independently, before waiting for the United States of America to act. During the weekend 1 happened to read the annual report of these organisations which were tabled in this House last week, and in many respects they are very depressing as far as the future provision of international aid to the underdeveloped countries is concerned. 1 refer particularly to page 49 of the annual report of the World Bank. After referring to an inquiry being inaugurated by the World Bank, the report states: 
Barring a major reversal of recent trends in the volume, compositions and terms of capital flows to the developing countries, little significant increase can be expected over the next decade in the net  transfer figure of roughly $5 billion, excluding equity investments . . 
I think it is a most regrettable situation that the great country of the United States is so reluctant to advance its proper share to the International Development Association and I think it serves to highlight the kinds of international currency and trade difficulties that confront us at the present time. It is this slowness of acting in the face of a crisis which makes the situation even far worse than it ought to be. As the Minister for the Army and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  pointed out, the principle beneficiaries of IDA have been our neighbours particularly India. Pakistan and Indonesia. To my mind, IDA is the best of this team of international organisations because it advances money on what are called 'soft terms', that is low. no or nominal rates of interest. 
I think that all of us in recent days have been impressed by the number of public demands that have come to us directly and indirectly for Australia to give greater aid in the immediate and appalling circumstances in East Pakistan. I do not deny that the Government has not used its good offices where it can. I realise that the problem in East Pakistan is not primarily one of money: it is one of taking scarce resources to a place where it is very difficult to apply them. Of course, this is ultimately one of the reasons why the progress of primitive economies to something more substantial is a slow one. But nevertheless such financial aid as other countries cangive to enable these underdeveloped countries to acquire techniques, capital assistance, consumer goods and so on is welcomed and 1 should like to com mend the Government, at any rate, on having heeded the request from  Mr McNamara  who said: 'Do not wait until the big fellows put in. You put in and it will help us in our immediate and difficult circumstances'. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
There are one or two things I should like to say about the Treasury estimates in the 10 minutes allotted to me. I want to say something about several matters that the Government claims it has under attention and about which nothing has yet been done. The first one I wish to refer to is insurance other than life assurance. I point out that in terms of section 51 (XIV.) of the Constitution the Commonwealth has power to make laws with respect to insurance, other than State insurance, and also State insurance extending beyond the limits of the State concerned. As my colleague the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  indicated in a question this afternoon the Commonwealth legislated in 1949 in regard to life assurance but there is no comprehensive legislation dealing with insurance other than life assurance. When it is pointed out that such premiums aggregate annually a sum of the magnitude of $900m it seems that insurance has reached a level where it is too significant to be allowed to run in the haphazard fashion in which it is now running. 
We all know that recently there have been quite a number of scandals in the field of motor car insurance where members of the public have unwittingly paid premiums to companies that have proved to be little better than swindlers. This matter has been raised over a considerable period. I asked a question myself last year of the then Attorney-General, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  pointing out that the ability of companies to register in Canberra was being used to float these straw companies. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  this afternoon indicated that it was a very long business to draw up a comprehensive insurance Act. I would agree with that but I suggest that he should begin by appointing a commissioner in this field just as there is an Insurance Commissioner in the life assurance field. 
 One of the first things, that needs to be done is to increase the amount of deposit that has to be lodged before any company can undertake business. What happens is that these companies are formed and then shrewd salesmen go round concerned only to get premiums and not being concerned whether if a certain number of accidents happen the insurance claims ' could be fulfilled. Nobody ought to be able to start an insurance company in Australia under such flimsy conditions. I submit that it is not necessary to wait until a comprehensive Act is written that will cover every branch of insurance in Australia other than life assurance. The Government should begin by appointing someone who at least can begin to co-ordinate this business. We spend not very much less on insurance other than life assurance than we do on defence expenditure and I think this is too large a sum to be allowed to run in the haphazard fashion in which it has been allowed to continue. 
The other matter that I think is highly significant as far as the Treasury is concerned is the question of doing something about what are called fringe finance institutions - institutions that in many respects are more like banks than they are not, but unlike banks are not subject to any overriding control of their ability to extend credit. In the current report of the Reserve Bank tabled in this House only a few weeks ago the Bank indicated- I am afraid I do not have the exact -quotation - that these non-bank undertakings were creating difficulties with important implications as far as policy is concerned. The Reserve Bank made no attempt to spell out what these important implications were and I suggest again that it is time that the Government began to give us some indication as to what these important implications are. 
My Party has always believed that what ought to have been done here is to treat these fringe institutions as though they were banks and to legislate accordingly and if the legislation was challenged in the High Court then the Government could proceed to seek powers by way of referendum. Despite all the brilliant constitutional lawyers who suggested that it was not competent for the Commonwealth to legislate, apparently the High Court in the recent trade practices decision indicated that the coast was quite clear for any government in Australia to legislate in this field and I hope at last that that field will be entered fairly quickly and we will not again have to await protracted examination before some sort of skeleton attempt is made to grapple with it. 
The other matter that the Government has also claimed it has been going to do something about is the introduction of what have been described as forward estimates. In the previous Budget the former Treasurer, my friend the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  indicated that the mechanism was set up and he hoped, had he been doing the Budget this year, for the first time to bring forward not just a series of estimates for one year but a series of estimates for 5 years. I think that was the period, but I am not sure that it was not later modified to 3 years. This has been practice now in the House of Commons for several years, lt was done originally in the form of what is described as a Green Paper as distinct from a White Paper and that, as I understand it, is simply a document that is available for discussion purposes to enable people inside and outside the Parliament, who are concerned about the problem to look at what is proposed and to suggest improvements and so on. I hope that that at least will be done here. 
The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  earlier in the debate on the estimates for the Parliament referred to the inadequacy of the mechanism for judging the effects of financial expenditure. After all, when we are spending an aggregate sum of about $9,000ni - over $2,000m 0f which goes directly through the Treasury, the Department that is now under consideration - we should know more about it, although by far the major part is the grants that are paid directly by the Treasury to the States. Nevertheless the sums are vast and the existing mechanism is quite inadequate to evaluate the effects of expenditure. As we all know, an actual item that appears in the estimate for any department this year might be merely the continuance of a programme from the year before or the beginning of a programme that may extend over some years. I think that governments in the past have not been game to estimate in advance because they would have to make allowance for this dubious factor of inflation which has been with us but which we always like to keep, like somebody we do not want to be seen in public, behind the scenes. We certainly would have difficulties in estimating forward revenue if we had to admit: 'Well, we are providing for a continuance of inflation of  2i  or 3 per cent for the next 5 years'. If it is a fact of life, it is time we recognised the fact of life. I simply put these matters forward as ones that in my view call for early action on the part of this Government. I think this Government is rapidly being written off as a government of inaction in what are highly critical public and private spheres. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives m Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern times. 
That only quick settlement of the Bangla DeshPakistan conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. We therefore urge the honourable members to: 
Raise to $10m Australian aid to refugees now in India from East Pakistan. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I want to comment on the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill and to say at the beginning that, in my view, the immediate problem of wool - this is what we are talking about here, because the scheme is described as a provisional one - is not one of costs at the moment but one of price. The other day I happened to be reading a paper written by  Dr Harris  of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics about primary production and the national income generally. He indicated that the figure achieved for the sale of wool last year was the lowest figure since 1948-49. Of course, two or three things need to be looked at. Firstly, the same sum as in 1948-49 would have a very different purchasing power in 1970-71. Secondly, it took more sales of wool, in the physical sense, in 1970-71 to achieve even that low figure than it took in the 1948-49 period. Roughly, as I understand it, the production of wool now is somewhere between 6 million to 7 million bales annually. In 1948-49 it was in the region of 5 million bales. So there has been .an. increase in the quantity of about 30 per cent. But the sum received for the sales overseas was the same in 1970-71 as it was in 1948-49 even though we were selling more of it. Of course, the purchasing power of the money received is probably only . about half of what it was in 1948-49. To my mind, to some degree this speaks for the great resilience of the wool industry in that it has been able to survive in the face of that sort of circumstance. I do not know that any other industry would have been able to do the same kind of thing. 
The question to which I find it difficult to get an answer is: Why has the sale price dropped so dramatically and to such a proportion in such a short space of time? The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who has just spoken said that the sale price had dropped because wool did not have a monopoly. I do not think that anybody has ever claimed that wool did have a monopoly. It has been recognised for a good number of years now that wool is no longer used purely on its own. It has been used in blends with synthetics. Until this season there have been no accumulations of wool. Growers have sold all they produced annually and there has been very little carry over. I am not sure - these are the kinds of problems one has to look at - that our problems might not have been significantly fewer if our total production had been a million bales or so less than it is. But we have reached the point we are at because of the remarkable improvement in the productivity of the industry, something that in other directions by and large we claim as a virtuous performance. 
The honourable member for Bradfield quoted from a paper delivered at a seminar some time ago which referred to the capital that was employed to produce 1 lb of synthetic fibre compared with the capital employed to produce 1 lb of wool. If we were talking - we need to get to the bottom of these 'ifs' in the discussion - about an industry that did not exist and we were going to create A or B, the relative costs of the two might be of some significance. But our problem in the wool industry is that we have vast amounts of capita] employed that is not capable of being transferred. That sort of argument is all right if we are not faced with the prospect, as in my view we are here, that if the wool industry goes a lot of capital simply goes out of existence; it is not transferable somewhere else. As I see it, what we are doing here is trying to provide a bridge of 12 months or so in which to take stock of the whole situation. I took part in a private discussion some time ago on this question, and one might polarise the argument by saying that some people - there is a significant number of them in Australia - believe that the wool industry is doomed, almost totally. 
I am simply trying to put the two poles of the argument. On the other hand - this is the side of the argument to which I subscribe- I think the wool industry is viable and has shown itself to be so in the past, the reason it is in any kind of economic jeopardy at the moment is, I believe, not because of costs but because of prices. It would be nice if costs were lower, but costs are rather like the problem of the transfer of capital. There is no way by which one can suddenly and dramatically reduce costs. I think that honourable members, if they are honest, will admit that in many ways labour is not a very prime factor as far as the immediate problem of the wool industry is concerned. 
I am astonished sometimes when I find that for debating purposes honourable members on the other side of the House offer the bogy of the 35-hour week, which we do not have as yet, as a sort of answer to a problem that we do have. All too often this is what the Government does. It does not face up to the problems that bedevil us immediately; it runs away and says: 'Well, if the Labor Party does this or something else, in 12 months or 2 years it will be so much worse.' I am not too sure that some of the people we are talking about have 12 months or 2 years to wait. This partly is the reason we have written our amendment in the way we have. If money is to be devoted to saving sections of the industry it should go to those sections of the industry which need it most. After all, there are some who are surviving fairly comfortably on today's prices; there are others who will not survive with the small amount that they will get from this kind of bounty. It is not, as my friend the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  suggests, a tariff. 
There are differences between a tariff and a bounty. I often define a tariff as a tax which the person who makes the good hopes will never be collected because he hopes still to make the good in his own country, and the tariff is there to stop the article being imported but he produces the good at a price plus the tariff and he sells it accordingly. What is envisaged here is in the nature of a bounty and what we are suggesting is that the bounty could be more equitably distributed. It is not right simply to say that if a person has 20,000 sheep and the floor price is such-and-such and the average that is agreed upon is 36c, and the difference between the price he gets and the 36c is 6c or 7c, then the bounty is paid on the number of pounds of wool offered and the number of sheep that he has. We regard that as inequitable. That is the basis for our objection. If honourable members opposite regard this as equitable and the most sensible way to do it, I suppose they are entitled to their opinion. 
Let me get down to the question of the price, which seems to me to be the bedevilling factor. If, as some people say, the Japanese are holding off in the market - they ought to be paying a higher price but they are not - would not the fact that the Australian Government proposes to underwrite the price lead the Japanese to say: *We would be fools, would we not, to pay 36c a lb for the wool if the Australian Government is to underwrite the difference?' At least I think that would be the sort of argument that some shrewd buyers might arrive at, and this is why I think that ultimately we are right in our amendment when we go on to suggest in the second part that there should be a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip. It seems to me to be a curious kind of auction when we are doubtful about the principal buyer in the first place, and when the only buyer who is matching the principal buyer is the Government auctioneer who is buying in at certain prices. I would like to give it another 6 or 8 months to see whether this is a viable scheme. Up to date it does not seem to have been a very workable scheme. 
If it is not successful I think the next logical step is to come down to compulsory acquisition. If people believe as I do, and as I am sure the Minister does, that the wool industry is viable why are not the principal buyer and other buyers paying a fair price for the product? After all, the Japanese would not sell a motor car to us at lower than the cost of production, and this seems to me to be something of the problem of the wool industry. Two or three years ago for the same quantity, and roughly the same qualities in aggregate of wool, we received $839m I think the 
Minister said, yet in the last full year for which figures are available - 1970-71 - this amount had dropped by nearly $300m. Why? Is it because the buyers are better organised than are the sellers? The view that we on this side hold is that this has been the main difficulty. It is not that wool as a product has a monopoly. I do not think anybody suggests that. But surely we are as entitled to claim for wool as a product something like a reasonable cost of production as we are, or were, in the case of iron ore when it was sold by contract in Western Australia to certain Japanese buyers, and in the case of wood chips. Through private negotiation between the 2 countries we got a better price. Is not the same kind of thing a possibility as far as wool is concerned? One other matter was raised in the Minister's speech about which I want to say something. He said: 
During the course of the year it is anticipated that there will be a' settlement of the international currency siuation 
I would submit that one of the difficulties at the moment as far as Japanese buyers are concerned must be in relation to the ratio which they think should apply to the yen and the Australian dollar. I have been prepared to accept the view that up to date the Government may have been wise to sit out this sort of crisis. But in a situation where, as I understand it, the yen has dropped from 360 yen to the American dollar to about 330 yen to the American dollar, or a variation of about 9 per cent, surely Australia has to make up its mind in its trade relationships with Japan what it thinks are fair trading terms in the 2 currencies. 
I would submit that instead of waiting on what is taking place at the meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the meetings of the Group of Ten - it has now become a group of nine versus the United States as the tenth - it is about time that Australia began to do something about arranging separate terms if need be, between Japan and itself and, if need be, in respect of wool. After all if, as some people say. we should follow the American dollar - I cannot say that I subscribe to that view either - and there is likely to be a drop in the yen compared with the American dollar from, say 330 even down as low as 300 yen to the American dollar, it is extremely unlikely that any Japanese buver will buy something when he floes not know what the Australian exchange rate will be in the circumstances. 
I would suggest that we have reached that critical time in Australia. It is interesting to see that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on his way home is at least to spend a day or so in Japan. It seems to me that these are some of the matters that will have to be strenuously examined in the next few months. Is one of the hitches at the moment the uncertainty about the currency? On the other hand, if we in this country really feel that wool is underpriced, why should we let it be further underpriced by accepting an unsatisfactory arrangement about the exchange rate, which is surely what the Government is proposing to do. 
Listening to. the kinds of arguments that have prevailed in this debate, particularly from the Government side, I suggest that there is a little bit of whistling in the dark rather than a tendency to face up to what is a highly critical situation. I do not think there are any simple answers to these problems, and I think we are foolish sometimes to suggest that there are. But at least here is a proposal before us that we think is inequitable as far as the immediate difficulties are concerned, and the difficulty arises out of the fall in the price of the product that is being sold. What this measure does is simply to distribute on an inequitable basis to everybody irrespective of bis total income or relative circumstances in the industry, the same flat payment. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  showed, the biggest part of the subsidy goes to people who in one way are not doing very badly at the moment. They certainly would be doing better if their wool cheque were greater, but they are not going out of existence. On the other hand, when recently I went to the Western District of Victoria, to the electorate of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  I was told that even with this assistance payment many of the smaller people there still would not survive. Maybe we can callously say that their capital would be better employed in a synthetic plant somewhere else, but that is a very unrealistic and uncharitable attitude to the problem. 
Therefore I support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Dawson, and I hope that honourable members on the other side of the House will realise that it is a genuine view on our part that this is an inequitable way to bestow temporary largesse to the industry. la the words of my friend the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, even if it means having something in the nature of- a means test, means tests are not unknown on the other side of the House either. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occuring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modem history. 
That as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees to at least $10m immediately even if this entails reducing spending in other areas. 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies. 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
that death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
that, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Australian Government take steps to offer employment, at least on a temporary basis, and in order to effect some relief, to academic and qualified persons among the persons from Bangla Desh. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I desire to address a question to the Treasurer. In his recent discussions overseas on international monetary arrangements did he indicate any firm views as far as Australia was concerned on the following matters: Increases in special drawing rights and their allocation; international capital movements; floating exchange rates, dirty or clean; the price of gold; and the American surcharge on imports? Further, in his discussions with Japanese authorities in particular did he contemplate the making of separate exchange arrangements with that country either generally or for trade separately and with particular attention to wool? Finally, does he agree that there may be some inconsistency in the view of the Department of Primary Industry that wool is undervalued on world markets and the lack of any clear indication on the part of the Treasury as to the future value of Australian currency internationally and again in particular as compared with the yen? 
The Opposition supports this Bill because it regards it as a sensible enough move. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his second reading speech described the Bill as follows: 
The purpose  of  this Bill is to implement the Government's decision announced on 1st May 1970 to introduce legislation to ensure that the 
Commonwealth had adequate power to control the acquisition of local or overseas interests of large shareholdings in banks incorporated in Australia. 
The Treasurer, in the next paragraph, went on to say that 'banking is a business in which the nation has special interests'. I agree wholeheartedly with that. Banking is a business in which the nation ought to have special interests and it should have great concern about the operations of this field. 
I do not want to say very much about the Bill itself except to state that it aims to ensure that no-one, with one or two exceptions, which I think are technical by reason of the Constitution, of some of the savings banks attached to the private trading banks, or that no single shareholding in a bank shall be of more than 10 per cent - that is to be the maximum holding by one interest. During some discussions we had on this matter one evening I was shown by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  who was formerly with the Bank of New South Wales, and a colleague, that that bank had a clause in what is described as the Bank of New South Wales deed of settlement. 
This was brought up to date in 1965. However, it certainly goes back to the foundation of the bank. Clause 22 of the deed of settlement states: 
No person shall be allowed to subscribe for or by reason of purchase or otherwise to hold more than one-twenty-fifth- 
Which, of course, is 4 per cent -  of the whole number of the shares in the capital of the bank which have for the time being been allotted and if any transfer of shares  ahall  be executed . . . 
This limits the holding in that bank, as one of the major private trading banks, to 4 per cent, so, as far as that undertaking is concerned, it will not be affected by this legislation. Nevertheless, there is the danger that in some circumstances the trading banks, or some of them, could fall into the hands of one dominant group of shareholders or they could be subjected to attacks in the form of takeovers and invasions from overseas shareholders. This would not be desirable and I agree with the Government when it says that it will refuse to allow any new foreign bank to operate as such in Australia. I support that principle on behalf of my own party. 
What is causing concern at the moment are the operations of what are sometimes described as near banks or fringe institutions, many of which are partners of the trading banks and many of which have quite substantial foreign holdings. 1 have a list of these institutions which was supplied by my colleague, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and I shall mention only a few of them. The Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd is a finance company in which the Bank of New South Wales has a 43 per cent shareholding. The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Ltd has a 42 per cent shareholding in Commercial and General Acceptance Ltd, which is known as CAGA. The National Bank of Australasia has a 60 per cent shareholding in Custom Credit Corporation Ltd. and its profits were reported in this morning's financial Press as being in the region of $10m. ESANDA Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Of course, there recently have been rearrangements with the amalgamation of that bank with the English Scottish and Australian Bank Ltd. The Finance Corporation of Australia Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bank of Adelaide. General Credits Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd, which is the group whose constitution was affected by the recent amalgamation of the 2 banks, had a 21.7 per cent shareholding in Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd and it is reported that the First National City Bank, New York plans to acquire a total equity of 40 per cent in this company. 
It is about some of these near banks or fringe institutions that I should like to say something this afternoon and I shall cite one or two recent references to this matter. At an address delivered to the Australian Institute of Management at the twelfth general management conference held in Canberra on 29th October 1970,  Mr B.  B. Callaghan, managing director of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, made these observations: 
But the fact remains that, in the past 20 years, various money markets have arisen in Australia, many of them performing functions that constitute banking in every business sense if not in the sense that the word 'banking' appears in the Australian Constitution as so far interpreted. 

 Mr Callaghan went on to say: 
Until recently, we spoke of fringe banking institutions but, nowadays, I think we should forget that term and recognise that each institution dealing in money is, in fact, a part of a money market, for the establishment of other money markets followed the emergence of the finance houses as very profitable money markets. These new markets also are largely beyond the constitutional control of the Australian monetary authorities. 
Of course, when  Mr Callaghan  wrote that in October 1970 we did not have the decision in the Rocla pipes case and it seems that as a result of that case it has been affirmed by the majority of judges in the High Court that what the Australian Labor Party had asserted for a good many years was necessary, but which was always howled down as unconstitutional, was in fact constitutional all the time. The Labor Party suggested at least 10 years ago that hire purchase, consumer credit, fringe banking or whatever you like to call it should be regarded as banking and legislation should be enacted accordingly, and if anybody wanted to challenge it in the High Court, he could do so. The Government should not have refrained from legislating in that field. The recent decision in the Rocla pipes case would suggest that we could legislate in this field. 
I proceed to a more recent observation on this matter which was, I think, made at about the time the decision in the Rocla pipes case was given. I quote from the latest annual report of the Reserve Bank of Australia which was tabled a day or two after the Budget was delivered. The report states: 
Overseas banking and other financial organisations were again active in acquiring equity holdings in existing Australian non-bank financial institutions and in establishing new financial enterprises mainly in conjunction with Australian institutions. At the end of 1970-71, the number of public companies engaged in non-bank financing (excluding insurance companies) in which overseas concerns held substantial equity interests was around 60; a decade ago the corresponding figure was about 10. 
The writers of the report go on to state: 
At the same time, however, the new non-bank institutions that have been emerging, many linked to overseas banks and other entities of high repute in international finance, have been establishing a place particularly in markets for short term funds. These developments, which are a natural accompaniment to economic expansion, have produced considerable overlapping of the areas of financing occupied by banks and non-banks, and the present pattern raises some important policy issues. In the course of their special relationship with the monetary authorities, benefits are conferred on banks but constraints are also imposed - in part in the interests of monetary policy. To the extent that this singling out of banks affects the pattern of the business they undertake, questions of efficiency in the conduct of the community's financial intermediation arise and on these grounds there is some case for limiting the degree and manner of treating banks differently from non-banks. 
I would suggest that, bearing that observation in mind with what  Mr Callaghan  has said a year or so ago, this really should be conceived as one shading of markets rather than discreet units operating separately in relation to monetary arrangements. Whatever virtues could be seen in limiting the foreign ownership in banks which, after all, are subjected to controls, quite rigorously in their operations under the Banking Act of 1959-1967, surely it is more necessary that there should be similar limitations placed on these other financial intermediaries. 
A week or two ago the  Deputy  Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia,  Mr Knight,  in delivering the G. L. Wood Memorial Lecture at the Melbourne University, pointed out the growth of assets of financial institutions during the period 1953-1970. He related the total assets of these institutions to the gross national product figure as some sort of an indicator of the vastness of them. In 1953 the assets of the financial institutions, including those of the Reserve Bank, totalled $8,572m and the gross national product was $8, 372m. Roughly speaking one could say that the assets of the financial institutions aggregated something like the value of the total turnover of goods and services in the community in the 12-month period. By 1970 the total assets of financial institutions had risen to $3 5,480m whilst the gross national product for that year was S30,000m. The total assets of the financial institutions had increased fourfold in those 17 years and actually exceeded the gross national product figure by a margin of something like one-sixth. However, there had been considerable shifts in the relativity of the various groups within the total operations. 
The position of the assets of the Reserve Bank is, of course, inclined to fluctuate quite significantly from year to year because its operations in the open market sometimes greatly increase or decrease its assets for one particular year. For this reason one cannot necessarily draw a very firm conclusion about the assets of the Reserve Bank for any one year. If we exclude the assets of the Reserve Bank from the total assets of the financial institutions we will find that there has been quite a significant fall in the percentage held by the trading banks and the savings banks. In 1953 their assets were 58 per cent of the total but in 1970 they had fallen to 44 per cent. The trading banks alone had declined from nearly 36 per cent in 1953 to just a shade under 23 per cent in 1970. Where there had been a considerable increase in assets was in the finance companies whose assets were coming up to the same kind of magnitude as those in the banking system. The banking system, as is pointed out in the report of the Reserve Bank, is subject to constraints, as it ought to be, but as far as these other undertakings are concerned there are no definite restraints. 
The report of the Reserve Bank points out that there has been quite a shift in the sort of business that the finance houses are engaged in. Originally they were engaged more in consumer credit but now about half of their activity is in providing business finance, which activity was formerly carried on by the banks. As the report of the Reserve Bank states, this raises quite significant matters of policy. I would have liked the Reserve Bank to spell out a little bit more what the significant matters of policy are. The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  in February of this year, I think, made a statement about the economy of this nation. One of the things he pointed out was what appeared to be the large inflow of foreign capital on a short term basis. He said that much of this sort of capital was going into the construction of buildings other than dwellings. The figures for the gross national product as at 30th June 1971 show this trend quite starkly. They show that the total profit position of all company activity in Australia for the year 1970-71 had actually declined but that the profits of the finance section had increased from $240m to $286m or about 20 per cent in that 12 months period when there was supposed to be monetary restriction on the economy. 
As the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation,  Sir Roland  Wilson, pointed out in the 1971 Annual Report a few weeks after the report of the Reserve Bank, the monetary policy being pursued by the Government internally - I am not arguing whether the policy was right or wrong, but at least it was the sovereign right of the Government to impose it - was to a considerable degree nullified by the flow of foreign capital into this country, which as we know affects the liquidity position of the banking system and in effect was working in the opposite direction to that in which the Government wanted its monetary and fiscal devices to go. The effect is revealed quite starkly in the figures given on national income. In 1971 dwelling construction, in real terms, had actually declined. The provision of infrastructure via public works of all governments in Australia had actually declined. However, there was a substantial increase of about $100m in the construction of buildings other than dwellings. There is no doubt that much of this money that was coming in from overseas found quite a profitable haven in finance for buildings other than dwellings or what I have described on another occasion as skyscrapers  rather  than schools or hotels rather than hospitals. This is not my idea of a sensible allocation of the resources of this nation. I would suggest that it is time that the Government took action in this field. 
I commend to honourable members a series of articles appearing, in 3 July issues of the 'Australian Financial Review', written by  Mr M.  W. Acheson IV, an American, who is assistant to the Managing Director of Ord-B.T. Co. Ltd and  deputy  representative of the Bankers' Trust Co. of New York. In those articles  Mr Acheson  described what he called 'the foreign bank invasion'. It is interesting to note that, as the Reserve Bank suggests, whereas a decade ago there were 10 of these institutions there are now over 60. I think  Mr Acheson  implied that the figure is closer to 100. These are, in effect, banks operating, by one or more removes, in Australia. They are not able to operate directly as banks. In many cases they operate either through banks as partners in some of their ventures, by buying into these finance houses, or by operating in the form of merchant banks. It always seems to me rather curious that there is no very substantial definition of a bank. If one goes to the Banking Act, which is supposed to regulate this sort of operation, one will find it hard to obtain a definition at all. In fact, one is referred mainly to a schedule. We get these other enterprises among which are what is called finance companies, which some people describe as near-banks. Then there is another type that is different again, but which still calls itself a bank, namely, the merchant bank. I would agree with  Mr Callaghan  that at least there are more similarities between them than there are differences. They are all engaged in this kind of borrowing and lending of money, which is the principal activity of banks. Of course, banks exist by borrowing cheap and lending dear, but at least they are subject to a certain amount of regulation. 
When one looks at how some of these other undertakings operate one sees that in the long run the excessive charges are wrought upon the ordinary people in the community, either because mortgage money is hard to get at lower rates or because the undertakings are offering higher rates. People who are able to claim their interest payments as tax deductions are certainly in a more favourable position than the home builder, in whose case the loan is regarded as a domestic transaction and not subject to a tax concession of any kind. Certainly the builder of the skyscraper is at some advantage when it comes to borrowing money over the builder of the lowly home. 
One of the great difficulties in Australia is that we do not have in this country anything like the legislation that operates in the United States of America, called Consumer Credit Protection Acts. We certainly have some attempts in various States Acts to limit the amount of interest. In most cases the limit they set is that in the old Moneylenders Act of 4 per cent per month flat which, of course, works out at something like 100 per cent or more on an annual appraisal. Some States have a lower limit than that. I would commend to the attention of the House an article that was quoted here a week or so ago by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  titled The Cost of Consumer 
Credit' which appeared in the Western Australian publication, 'Economic Activity', volume 15, for July 1971. It says that if people shop around for their credit terms the average family - and it suggests that the average family when its consumer credit financing is taken into account is indebted for something like $700 in the aggregate on which it could pay anything like $140 or 20 per cent in service charges - should be able to get money at about half the price. I would suggest to the Government, which claims to be really concerned about inflation but seems only to see it when wage increases are being sought, that here is a very good place to begin to do something which would affect the average family by $70 a year or near enough to $1.50 a week in excess exploitation by way of credit charges. Because this sort of institution is able to bid high for its money, other people who may have to seek and undertake credit are placed at quite a disadvantage, because either they cannot offer the same kind of rate or they are not in the business to the same extent. 
When one looks at the results of the last year - a year of gloom as far as actual physical production is concerned but a very bright year for those who are classified as finance companies, and that includes banks - it will be seen that the banks relatively are not doing so well as some of these other institutions, some of these back door partners as they used to be described. In one case the subsidiary of the Bank of Adelaide returns the bank more profit than does the bank proper. It seems to me that perhaps the banks have not been aggressive enough in seeking competition, and I would commend to the attention of the House a statement that I received the other day, a British Information Service news release dated 13th September 1971 on what ware called the new United Kingdom credit control arrangements in which banks are free to compete against each other as far as interest rates are concerned. The trading bank overdraft rate in Great Britain is substantially less than it is here and banks there have to subscribe to arrangements laid down by the Bank of England. That sort of overall control is applied to these other financial intermediaries as well. I would suggest that 2 things probably are necessary. This kind of activity ought to be brought into the net if, as the Minister claimed in his second reading speech, banking is a business in which the nation has special interests. I think he should acknowledge that he has to widen his sights now as far as the activities of the realm of banking are concerned, that he should apply to the nonbanking type of activity the same restriction on shareholding as he applies to the banks, and that he should consider bringing it within the net of credit control, as has been done with the banking system. 
In some respects I suppose this Bill might be described as a technical measure arising out of the fact that some weeks ago this Parliament legislated to transfer from the Commonwealth to the States the responsibility for collecting the tax known as payroll tax. I think, in a strict constitutional sense, there would be some difficulty in levying that tax, as a State tax, upon Commonwealth instrumentalities, but apparently the Commonwealth Government is doing what it regards as the decent thing for once and is voluntarily making liable for a tax that constitutionally could not be collected a set of bodies which is listed in a document called the 'Attachment'. This list includes such bodies as the Australian Canned Fruits Board, the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission and the Australian Tobacco Board, to mention only a few. Apparently since that list was first circulated there have been a number of second thoughts about it because I received a letter dated 8th October from the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  in his capacity as Minister assisting the Treasurer in which he indicated that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  had asked him to forward to me an amended copy of that list. The amendments concern primarily the Commonwealth Banking Corporation which is divided into 3 divisions - the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia, the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia and the Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia. These have been listed separately and the letter from the Minister for the Army explains this situation by stating: 
It was drawn to the Minister's attention by Treasury officials that the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and its 3 member banks are staffed by officers of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Service. For the purposes of Commonwealth payroll tax the corporation is, therefore, the registered employer. However, the Corporation has no income of its own-  lt is rather astonishing that that great body has no income of its own - and its total expenses, including taxes, are met by the 3 member banks. Although the inclusion of the 3 member banks in sub-list (i) represents the de facto position, the amendment proposed is more correct. 
The inclusion of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation in sublist (ii) of the list appearing in Hansard follows clarification of the Organisation's registration under Commonwealth pay-roll legislation. 
That is signed for the Minister. 
Very grateful to get it but a little disturbed or bemused, I suppose, by what is meant by this passage in the Minister's second reading speech: 
The Bill does not itself make the authorities to which it applies liable to pay State pay-roll tax. It merely removes the barrier to payment of State payroll tax that exists in the constituting legislation of a number of Commonwealth authorities. 
The Minister might be able to clarify for me in basic English what that is supposed to mean. But 1 think it only underlines what we suggested when these measures were introduced, that it is a rigmarole or a paraphernalia, that basically this tax would have been much more easily collected at the Federal level by the Commonwealth and whatever administrative arrangements were needed to be made about reimbursing could have been made better in that way. However the Commonwealth chose to regard this as a growth tax, which the States were anxious to put their hands upon, and they have already increased it by 40 per cent from  2  per cent to 3± per cent. As I have said, the Commonwealth as a gracious act is bringing its own instrumentalities into the State net. Those organisations which previously had been taxed when the tax was a Commonwealth tax are now being voluntarily taxed by the State in which they operate. As 1 say, it is a highly technical matter. We offer no objection to the Bill, but I merely want to point out the rather confusing situation that it seems to raise. 
On behalf of the Opposition I wish to move, in respect of the Income Tax Bill, which is the Bill dealing with the rates of tax, the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and  re-drafted  because it (a) does not comprehensively restructure the rate schedule and (b) increases the tax payable by certain individuals on a flat percentage basis'. 
The tax that we are contemplating is the income tax as it is levied on individuals and companies. According to the estimates contained in the Budget Speech for 1971-72 it is anticipated that the income tax will yield from those who are called payasyouearn taxpayers a net sum of $2,859m in rounded figures, and from those who are called provisional taxpayers, for the most part, will be collected a sum of $803m, making in all a total of something like 
S3,661m. From companies there will be collected over $ 1,500m. So at least these taxes are a significant part of the Commonwealth total collections, which now are in the region of $8,000m. 
Income tax is often regarded as the crown of the tax structure. It is supposed to be progressive in its application, to be levied according to people's capacity to pay and takes into account certain circumstancial differences between taxpayers by reason of family commitments and other sorts of allowances that have from time to time been introduced. I have asked tht Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  whether I may incorporate in Hansard a number of tables compiled from information contained in the document entitled 'Taxation Statistics in 1969-70', which is a supplement to the forty-ninth report from the Commissioner of Taxation. The statistics show that taxpayers are divided broadly into 2 groups. The first group is the non-provisional group, which for the most part consists of people whose major source of income is salaries and wages. The other division is the provisional taxpayers, that is, people whose main source of income is other than wages and salaries. There were in aggregate about 5,200,000 taxpayers as at June 1969. These are the latest statistics that have been compiled. Those taxpayers had a total income before deductions had been allowed of $ 16,593m in rounded figures. That income was reduced to the sum on which tax is finally levied, which is described as taxable income. The $ 16,593m was reduced to $ 13,433m by reason of certain deductions that in aggregate were worth at their face value to the taxpayers - that is in the amount actually deductible from original income in determining taxable income - a sum of S3,095m. 
The latest figures on this matter which are contained in Hansard were in response to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which appears on page 1155 of Hansard of 15th September. The Leader of the Opposition has a similar question on notice this year which has not yet been answered, but the figures in Hansard show that the estimated cost of revenue of allowing certain deductions for the year 1967-68 was $895m or near enough to $900m. I would estimate - I think my calculation is reasonably accurate - that the deductions that were allowed for the year ended 30th June 1969 would have aggregated a figure for tax lest of over $ 1,000m as against the amount of $2,3 16m that was collected in that year. So the deductions that are allowed are a significant proportion of the tax that is finally collected. If no deductions have been allowed, $ 1,000m more could have been collected in tax. Instead of collecting $2,300m we could have collected $3,300m. 
This raises the question of the equity of the deductions that are allowed. After all, when one is trying to evaluate the impact of income tax, these questions of equity are of considerable significance. Allowing deductions reduces the tax base by about one-fifth and reduces the potential yield of taxation by over 40 per cent. So it is worth while to consider where these deductions fall. I ask leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard this table which divides taxpayers into non-provisional and provisional. 
 The Opposition intends to oppose this Bill, the purport of which was outlined by the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  in his second reading speech. He said: 
This Bill seeks parliamentary approval to a borrowing by the Commonwealth of up to  $US90m  from the Export-Import Bank of the United States to assist in financing the purchase of general defence equipment in the United States, and approval for the execution of the loan agreement on behalf of the Commonwealth for this borrowing. 
The Minister went on to indicate that this Bill was similar to other Acts under which borrowings had taken place in earlier times in the United States, some of which still have not been spent. Basically, we oppose this measure because, firstly, the sum involved is small in terms of Australia's reserves of something like $2, 500m. We have been told that this is the aggregate of Australian reserves in sterling, dollars, gold, lines of credit with the International Monetary Fund and various other things. Therefore, the sum of S90m is quite small. Our second reason for opposing the measure is that defence should be a payasyougo job rather than something which is straddled out over a term of years. Defence is an expendable item and it should not be the basis of loan commitments. These are the initial reasons why we oppose the Bill - on financial grounds, if you like. Of course, the other great reason at the moment is that very little is said in the Bill as to what the money is to be spent upon in the United States. I know that it is easy enough these days to jest about the great financial fiasco of the Fill programme under which about $300m has been expended for an aircraft that we have not yet got and that is to serve a different purpose, if we ever get it, from that conceived at the time we ordered it. The transaction will cost very much more at the end than was envisaged at the beginning. 
Much the same kind of thing applies to this measure. There is a very deliberate vagueness about what the sum is to be expended for. We are told that it is to cover orders to be placed during 1971-72. If anything can be said to characterise defence programming in recent years it has been a series of rolling plans that have been very indefinite in rotation to their ultimate end. We get arguments about whether we will have aircraft carriers, whether we will have new types of aircraft or whether we will have new types of naval vessels and so on. We also hear from behind the scenes about what are called offset orders and that if we buy so much from overseas countries they should be beginning to bestow some kind of counter-orders on Australian industry for components that are within the capacity of Australian industry to provide. 
As we know from a debate that took place here today on the censure motion, there still seems to be a tendency to want to commit Australia to escapades in other countries which are influenced by American decisions. This seems to me to be what is involved at the moment in Laos and Cambodia - certain vague commitments that nobody in Australia is very sure about. 1 noted recently when the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  delivered his statement on his recent journey overseas and his discussions with international monetary authorities that he suggested that America was placing some pressures not only with regard to trade but with regard to defence commitments on countries such as Japan and Canada. He was careful to say that Australia was not involved in these sorts of arrangements, but I suggest that that statement made on Thursday night sounds a little hollow now after the events of the last few days. There seems to be some uncertainty between the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and other Ministers as to just what these commitments are, and one would not feel re-assured that the Prime Minister is not committing Australia to ventures that are as yet fairly indeterminate so far as military assistance is concerned. 
For all those reasons it is suggested that this measure should be opposed, not to mention that one does not even know at this stage what parity of dollars these transactions are finally to encompass. The Australian Government is still very reluctant to indicate whether it wants to follow the American dollar downwards or the yen upwards. I hope that some definitive statement will soon be made by the Government about this. Reading between the lines in relation to what is taking place in the United States at the moment, with the Prime Minister over there, I suggest that at least there is a disposition to suggest that Australia is not to devalue in relation to either currencies; rather the tendency will be to follow the yen upwards. I hope that in terms of both aid and trade there will soon be a fairly definite statement about this. 
For all these reasons we suggest that the measure before us now ought to be opposed. If 1 may recapitulate, in terms of the expenditure of about $9,000m this year on total Budget commitments the sum of $90m is fairly small; that it is small in relation to our reserves overseas; and that it is prudent that we should pay as we go rather than borrow unless it is inevitable that we have to borrow. No good reason seems to have been advanced as to why this payment could not be made as we go, particularly when it is related to defence expenditure, which does not build any assets that produce fruits in the future except a vague sort of idea that what we are buying overseas may help to frighten an enemy that the Government has been very careful not to define. Finally, we are borrowing in another currency at a time when there is no certainty as to what the parity will be when we repay. Because I know honourable members are anxious to get onto the Estimates, I do not want at this late stage to labour the matter any further except to say that we oppose this measure for reasons that i hope are understandable. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a secondtime. 
 As a member of the Privileges Committee I would like to say a few words about this report and also to indicate that the  Chairman  of the Committee would like to have said something but as he is suffering from an acute attack of laryngitis he is unable, on the advice of his doctor, to do so. This report was tabled about a fortnight ago. I draw the attention of the House to the section of the Standing Orders that deals with the Privileges Committee, lt reads: 
A Committee of Privileges, to consist of nine Members, shall be appointed at the commencement of each Parliament to inquire into and report upon complaints of breach of privilege which may be referred to it by the House. 
The Privileges Committee cannot decide the sort of matter that has been suggested by my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  That is a matter for the House to determine. The Committee can, if it wishes, use the mechanism of the Committee to determine this sort of thing but as it now stands the Committee meets on only very rare occasions and when it does meet it is only on particular reference from the House. In recent times we have had 2 references but this is the first report we have received. I think that we will have another report within a week or two. It is in the hands of the House, of course, as to whether this report will be adopted. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has moved that the recommen daltons in the report be adopted, and this decision is in the hands of the House after a perusual of the report. It is a matter for honourable members to decide whether they ' want :o make some comment upon the report. In the meantime the editor of the newspaper, the 'Australian', has acted. The day after the report of the Committee was tabled in this place the editor published an apology for the letter, which was printed and which I think was a very offensive letter. As the report indicates, the Committee found no evidence of a bona fide author of that letter. The editor of the newspaper accepted responsibility for its publication, as a good editor should. He indicated that, he had relied on a sub-editor or a junior, who allowed the letter to go through. He said that if he had read the letter it would not have been published. He accepted full responsibility. The Committee felt tha! an apology, would be sufficient on this occasion. 
I agree with the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that the question of privilege should be defined so that we have such powers to enable us to take action ourselves and until we have those powers we adopt the procedure of the House of Commons in 1901. As the honourable member rightly pointed out the procedure of the House of Commons has varied considerably since 1901, but we are not able to adopt its subsequent procedures simply as a matter of course. We are tied to what was done prior to 1901. I would commend to honourable members the interesting information that is contained in the documents prepared by the Clerks of the House,  Mr Pettifer  on this occasion and  Mr Turner  on an earlier occasion, the one dealing with the submission of my colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  There was a third reference in recent times. Honourable members will find documented there statements about privilege. 
I must confess, as a lay member of the Committee - and I pay a tribute to those legal gentlemen who illuminate the Committee - that it is a very difficult task in each case to decide fairly whether privilege has been breached when no clear definition of privilege has been laid down. When you look at Erskine May you fade into a borderline, with efforts to determine between what may be called matters of privilege and something else that is described as constructive contempt. We lay and legal figures on that Committee have to tread through precedents and rulings and look at each case on its merit. We felt that in this case, because it was acknowledged that the letter was in no way the opinion of the editor, but followed a series of articles dealing with lobbying in the House, and the editor conceded that had he read that letter he would not have allowed it to be published, we would regard the apology that has been printed as sufficient punishment in this particular instance. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
 Mr Speaker,  may 1 correct something I said before the suspension of the sitting? I said that the report was presented a fortnight ago; it was, in fact, a week ago. 
The Opposition accepts the technical necessity for this measure which arises to some extent from the longer time that has so far been given to the discussion of the Estimates this year. We support that, too. In a sense the Bill may point to the need to revise the procedure in this chamber in the future. I commend to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  the practice that is followed in the British House of Commons where the Estimates actually come in before the Budget. This allows a longer time for the consideration of the Estimates, separate from the Budget debate, in which principle, economic strategy and fiscal matters are discussed. I suggest that in the future he might look at this with a view to changing the procedures here. After all, to some extent, the fact that we have done things in a certain way for years is no reason why we should continue to do them that way. 
I suppose the other alternative would be to vote Supply for 6 months instead of five. That also would require careful consideration. The Opposition appreciates that until the Estimates are passed by both Houses - by the Senate as well as ourselves - the Government will be in some difficulty as from 1st December. It seems to us that the remedy for this is all that the Bill encompasses. For that reason we support the speedy passage of the Bill, but I ask that in future the procedure be reconsidered. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of bis life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Did he see any pleasant surprise in the unemployment figures recently released which show an increase of 20,000 over the same period last year and a decline of over 11,000 in the number of unfilled vacancies? Does he agree with the Treasurer that there will be still higher unemployment in early 1972, and is he aware that the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research has revised downwards its forecasts of the growth in the total number of employees  consequent upon the last Budget and anticipates unemployment at an average level of 100,000 continuing into 1972-73? Does Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which yesterday announced its third major cutback in steel production in a month, intend to lay off a further 2,000 employees before Christmas? Will he before Christmas increase the level of unemployment benefit to that of other pensions and also, as an act of social justice as well as a stimulus to demand, increase social service payments generally? 
 The Opposition intends to oppose the measures as they apply to recent Budget announcements concerning increases in excise on petrol and tobacco products. The House is debating several cognate Bills. We certainly do not intend to oppose laboriously each of the Bills separately at the second reading stage. To indicate our opposition, we will oppose the Excise Tariff Bill 1971 which proposes an Act relating to duties of excise because this Bill is principally the one by which additional revenue on tobacco in its various forms, including cigarettes and cigars, and on petrol in its various forms, whether it be used for motor cars or for aircraft, is collected. There are some other measures in the Bills relating to customs which impose duties on particular commodities of relatively small significance. We do not intend to oppose those Bills. Basically, our main attack is on the Budget proposals. 
I draw the attention of the House to the fact that at page 5 of the statements attached to the Budget Speech a table appears setting out statistics in relation to customs and excise duties. The increase of 2c a gallon on petroleum products will yield in this financial year an additional $43,200,000 or, if operative for a full year, $54,100,000. Certain other increases achieved by the removal of by-law exemptions will yield $1,300,000 in 1971-72 and, if operative for a full year, will yield $1,500,000. The increase of 50c per lb on cigarettes and cigars and 25c per lb on manufactured tobacco will yield on tobacco products for the remainder of this financial year $21m and, if operative for a full year, $31,700,000. So, this financial year, these measures will yield approximately $65m or an anticipated $87m if operative for a full year. 
In introducing the Budget last August, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  speaking on the economy stated: 
Even more than usually the Government has this year found it necessary, to shape its Budget to serve an overriding economic purpose. Australia is in the grip of inflationary pressures. The rate of increase in costs and prices is already fast and has tended to become faster. This is a serious condition. If allowed to develop unchecked it will cause increasing economic and social hardship to many people, add to the burdens of . rural industries already depressed, disrupt developmental plans of great promise and undermine the rich possibilities of growth which our future unquestionably holds. So far as lies in our power as a government we are determined to combat this pernicious trend, slow it down and hobble it. 
They may have been noble aspirations when uttered in August. They have been described since as the Budget strategy. But events have moved very fast since then. Most of the events that have moved have not been disturbed greatly as yet by the impact of this Budget. In many respects, the ills that seem to have accumulated flow rather from the last Budget than from the Budget which introduces these new duties. The additional duties on petrol and tobacco products, which we are contemplating now, operated virtually from 18th August. They became operative overnight. One of my colleagues will say something later on in this debate about some people who forestalled, as it were, the expected rise in petrol duties and were able to avoid - one hesitates to use the word evade'.- 
To use my term, they avoided approximately $7m in respect of the increased duty as it operates on petrol products. 
One finds it rather hard in the Australian context to study the full impact of measures of this sort. I refer to pages 38 and 39 of the appendices attached to the Budget Speech. It is estimated that this financial year customs duty will yield $533m and that excise duty will yield $1,1 82m. Between them, these 2 forms of revenue raising will account for $1,7 15m of Commonwealth revenue. The estimated receipts of $1,1 82m will be derived from nearly $400m from excise on beer, $306m from excise on tobacco products, $37 lm from excise on motor spirit and $105m from excise on other dutiable items. 
I suppose, if we set aside briefly the purpose of the duty on tobacco, we might think that the increase had been imposed because the Government had become impressed by the great dangers to which cigarette smoking exposes those who still indulge in it. One could digress a little about that aspect, but that is not the purpose of my exercise today. There is not any doubt that the. additional duty on tobacco has been imposed for the purpose of getting revenue. At least the Government assumes that there, will be no fall in the aggregate consumption of tobacco and cigarettes. In fact, the notes that are attached to the Budget Speech state that, even without the alteration in the rate of duty, there would be increases. Of course, with this increase and also the increased rate of duty, the increased yield which  I  have already detailed will follow. 
One can say that there is no need to smoke and that people can avoid the tax altogether by not indulging in this luxury of smoking. Nevertheless, it is accepted, and regarded as one of the marks of an affluent society, that people indulge in the consumption of tobacco products. In Australia this year people will pay something like 5306m by way of excise duty on these products. A cynical kind of observation, I suppose, that one can make about the Government's intention to increase the duty is that if, as anticipated, there is an increased yield because of the higher rate of tax, it will mean simply that the purchasing power of consumers is reduced in some other direction. The more money that is spent on tobacco at higher prices and, the less incomes are adjusted by some other process, the less is there for other items. Increasing the prices of items chat one knows people will use almost amounts to reducing the consumption of other articles. This seems to me to be a rather cynical kind of way to help to reduce the impact, if that is what the Government is doing, of inflation in the economy. The Government's proposal will mean that the man of the house will spend more on his tobacco than previously and the rest of the household will consume less of other items. 
Somewhat different arguments apply when one comes to consider the impact of the increases- of duty on petrol products. Again, I suppose one could say that if a person did not have a motor car he would not pay the tax. However, as in the case of tobacco products, the possession of a motor car is one of the accepted ways of life in Australia. In respect of the number of motor cars to total population Australia ranks third in the world. Only the United Slates and Canada are ahead of us. The motor car, for purposes of family transport and weekend pleasure, is an acknowledged part of our way of life. Also, because of the size of our continent, transport is one of the biggest items of cost in the economy generally. In respect, of the increased duties that are to be imposed on petrol no Une is drawn between whether the product is used for business or for pleasure. This seems to me to contradict the thesis that was expressed by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech that the strategy of the Budget is designed to halt inflation and the evils of it. 
There cannot be any doubt that charging those who use motor vehicles for business purposes more for petrol must add to the cost of the distribution of goods and services. To describe this increased duty as anti-inflationary is, to say the least, curious in many respects. This feeling is fortified by the answers which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  gave to many of the questions without notice today. It seems that he and the Treasurer are the last 2 persons left in Australia who believe that the Budget strategy is correct. All around us we can see signs of economic deterioration as far as total activity of the economy is concerned. But the Treasurer and the Prime Minister still assure us that they have their fingers on the turn of events, as it were, and that they will act when they have to do so. 
Again, one can be excused for thinking that they are not as well apprised of the realities of things as are some groups in the community. There is hardly anyone else today who will describe the functioning of the economy as satisfactory or who will view the future with optimism. All around us we see a general decline in confidence and this is reflected in what I suppose is the most basic of our industries, the steel producing industry, which has announced 3 cut-backs in the course of a month. Of course, this action will affect other parts of the economy as well. The Opposition's view is that it is still not too late for the Government to acknowledge that what it described as its strategy was incorrect. One of the ways in which the Government could quickly give some relief in respect of the total tax burden and to most sections of the community - certainly in regard to costs; - is to abandon these measures. Today is the last act, as it were, in making legal the additional charge of 2c a gallon on petrol and SOc per lb on tobacco products. If the Government had a second thought in both cases and said that rather than enact these measures it would simply leave the duties as they were, this would have the effect of immediately restoring confidence generally. It would be a sign of intention On the Government to acknowledge that the problems within the economy were quite serious. This would be a place in which the Government could act. 
One could talk at great length about taxation generally but what we are concerned with here are those taxes that apply on tobacco products and motor spirit in its various forms. I notice some rather curious figures in the Schedule to the Excise Tariff Bill. This Bill, which is one of five we are now discussing, sets out that the duty per gallon on petrol is $0,173 or 17.3c. The previous duty was 15.3c. The Schedule also shows the rather odd looking figures which belong to the pre-decimal era - the old rates that were quoted in pence per gallon and were simply converted to the equivalent of 1.2 pence to the cent. This is the reason why there is this rather curious array of figures in the Schedule. I do not know what will happen when we convert measurements to the metric system and we measure petrol in litres rather than gallons. But at least the increases that are contemplated are a matter of simple arithmetic - 2c a gallon on petrol and 50 per lb on tobacco products. 
For those sorts of reasons the Opposition hopes that some honourable members on the other side of the House will be persuaded to see the folly of the Budget strategy and also to see the logic of the kinds of arguments that I am propounding. If, as a rebuke to the Government, they say 'We do not think these increases ought to take place' the simple course which is open is to vote with us in opposition to the first of these Bills, the Excise Tariff Bill 1971 which for the most part encompasses the duties on petrol and tobacco. I leave it at that. One could say more, but I think that a couple of my colleagues want to say something about this measure. I seriously ask the House to use this as an exercise to get the Government to revise what was described as the overriding economic purpose when the Government brought down the Budget not much more than 3 months ago. One way to begin to act is to oppose the measures that are now before us. I ask honourable members on the other side to give serious consideration to supporting my pleas in this matter. 
The Opposition does not oppose this measure, which is fairly technical. In a sense it is a re-enactment of something that has applied for a number of years. This legislation was related to the payroll tax which the Commonwealth Government formerly collected but which it now has relinquished in favour of the States. By relating this legislation to that tax it was possible to give rebates, mainly to manufacturing industries in Australia, for improvements in export trade. One of the reasons that it was done in this rather curious fashion was that Australia, as a contributory to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade arrangement, was not permitted to make certain kinds of inducements for export trade. Apparently under the conventions of that agreement one cannot make rebates of direct taxes, but seemingly there are loopholes with respect to indirect taxation. This is the reason why this legislation has been hinged to the payroll tax. 
Now, as a result of certain rearrangements which have been made whereby the payroll tax has been handed over to the States - quite a retrograde step in my view, but nevertheless it was done because it gave to the States something which is described as a growth tax - we have to go through the subterfuge- of conceding what would have been paid in payroll tax had this payroll tax been collected by the States. The purpose of this Bill is to reenact for a further period - for the financial years 1971-72 and 1972-73 - the provisions that formerly applied. In fact, as the Minister for the Army and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  said: 
The Bill proposes that direct Commonwealth grants be payable in respect of increases in exports during the financial years 1971-72 and 1972-73, the years for which the payroll lax rebate scheme was to remain in force. 
This was a scheme that had been introduced some years ago and which has been renewed periodically but which would not have been renewed until 1972-73. What will happen to this kind of thing after 1972-73, like a lot of other things, the Government leaves completely up in the air. I presume that the same sort of inducement in a different kind of way will still be forthcoming. Certain details are contained in the taxation statistics supplement to the 49th report of the Commissioner of Taxation who administers this legislation. The last available figures are for 1968-69 and they show that in that year the rebate allowed to those entitled to it was about $33m. For 1970-71 - I quote from page 71 of the statistics attached to the Budget - the figure had increased to $47,750,000. For this year the projected estimate is $53m. 
This has always been a fairly messy way of encompassing the objective which the Government had in mind. 1 should like to quote again from a document to which I have referred on a number of occasions in this House. It was produced in 1966 some 5 years ago and is entitled 'A Report With Recommendations on the Australian Taxation Incentives for Manufacturing Exporters'. It was prepared and presented by the Australian Manufacturers' Export Council, Industry House, Canberra. The section I shall quote is still relevant even though it is 5 years since the document was prepared. The Council had made a survey and under the heading 'General Observations' the following comment appears: 
The survey reflects a trend towards significantly better export performance by the smaller firms than by many of the larger ones. This confirms an observation in the Report of the Commonwealth Committee of Economic Inquiry (Vernon Report) that 'such firms apparently have exhibited more flexibility in taking advantage of export markets more quickly than their larger counterparts'. 
One of the reasons why some of the larger firms have not taken this advantage is because of the existence of what are known as export franchises with some of the larger companies in Australia which are dominated by foreign ownership. The document continues: 
The survey illustrates the grave anomaly that the smaller manufacturers, who achieved the better export performance, received the lesser benefit from the payroll tax incentive. 
I suggest that that kind of difficulty still applies. The document notes: 
As well, it is clear that the present scheme gives greater encouragement to the labour intensive industries than to the capital intensive ones 
Surely if there is any country that should be devoting itself to what might be called capital intensive industries rather than to labour intensive industries with respect to export trade, it is Australia. This afternoon honourable members have spoken of the awful mish-mash which faces Australia's economy at present because of growing unemployment, but if our economy were properly planned and if there were some sense of priorities, as there should be, we would not be in this situation. What we face is a shortage of skilled manpower. One of Australia's besetting evils at the moment is that we use wastefully what is a short supply commodity - skilled manpower. One reason why we cannot get the best out of our economy is that we cannot employ our unskilled people sensibly unless, firstly, we have deployed our skilled people successfully. Undoubtedly if we are to expand our economy we must expand our export sales. Our traditional export industries are passing through a critical stage. One need not dwell on the difficulties confronting our rural industries both by reason of Common Market problems and the fact that our principal export industries - the wool industry is an example - are in a critical condition. Our export earnings have been maintained at the sort of levels Australia requires only because of our mineral exports. I have noticed one thing, and I quote from page 2 of the explanatory memorandum which accompanied this Bill wherein it is staged: 
In broad terms, a grant- 
That is, a grant for export rebate in terms of payroll payment -  is available, as was the payroll tax rebate, for increases in exports of all classes of goods other than minerals (as defined). 
For the  most  part minerals do not attract this concession. Certain minerals that are defined attract it, and one of those is gold. I am sure that my colleague the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  is happy that at least gold in its industrial uses attracts this rebate. This is a measure, introduced some years ago as a kind of piecemeal device, which has been allowed to grow rather lopsided and in a topsy.tervy manner without much attention being given to the fundamentals involved. It would seem that in its present form the rebate will cease to be paid by 1972-73, because the payroll tax will no longer be a tax which the Commonwealth can command. I hope that the Government will give serious consideration to devices of this kind in the future. 
There is no doubt that Australia's export trade needs to be stimulated and encouraged, but it does not require encouragement quite of the kind envisaged in this legislation. My Party in particular would like the Government to consider the tact that the present Act does not make any kind of reservation about the countries to which export trade goes, and because of that it appears that a rather peculiar anomaly exists. Among the beneficiaries under this legislation are some of the Australian breweries whose export trade is not going to what normally we would regard as an overseas country; it is going to the Territory of Papua New Guinea. In one sense Australian trade going to Papua New Guinea should not be regarded as being very much different from trade crossing the Murray River. I know that in years ahead Papua New Guinea will become somewhat different from the Murray River area - I do not deny that proposition - but nevertheless I am sure that when this legislation was introduced it was never intended to aid sales of beer from Australia to Papua New Guinea. 
After all. as we know from our own economic history, the brewing industry is one of the industries that a country can best encompass for itself, and there is such an industry in Papua New Guinea. 1 do not argue about the relative merits of one kind of brew compared with another, but t suggest that as far as the future welfare of Papua New Guinea is concerned, if it is to have a local brewing industry I am not too sure that there should not be some barriers set against the import of the product from outside Papua New Guinea. I suggest that this is one area in respect of which the law ought to be reviewed. 1 am not quite sure that that may not apply also to some industries in Australia which apparently are aided and abetted by the legislation as it stands. I think that most Australians, when they talk about export encouragement, are thinking about export from Australia to some of the new markets where we must make an impact in the future. I refer to countries such as Indonesia and to other countries in South East Asia, and to countries in the Commonwealth - to name only a few. We are reasonably successful, I suppose, in our trade with Japan which is our principal partner in this area. But if there is to be expansion in the future, then I think that there needs to be a lot more selectivity in the kind of measure that is introduced to encompass that expansion. 
I see that the Minister for the Army and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  is sitting at the table. At one stage we had intended to move an amendment which provided that the legislation ought not to apply to Papua New Guinea, bt,/ perhaps in general terms that might have been a bit sweeping. The definition of 'prescribed goods' is to be found in clause 4 on page 6 of the Bill. I hope that perhaps some attention might be given to altering the definition of "prescribed goods' in order to exclude at least certain kinds of products which are favoured because of a strict interpretation of the Act as it stands at present but which we do not believe were intended to be favoured in the original Act. Whilst our trading performances have been quite satisfactory in Australia, I doubt whether companies such as Tooth and Co. Ltd and Carlton and United Breweries Ltd need succour from legislation such as this. I hope that consideration might be given perhaps to modifying this legislation if the Government recasts it, as it will have to do in the future. We honour some of our international obligations more in the breach than in the observance. 1 think that this is one of the difficulties with the arrangements under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which was one of the things hopefully started nearly 20 years ago in the post-war era wilh a view to securing better trading relationships between the developed and the undeveloped countries, and Australia in a sense in those days, 1 suppose, fell somewhere between those 2 categories. 
Australia has now a relatively developed economy, compared with most countries with which we like to compare ourselves, and I think that probably now is the time to review the real import of some of the legislation that has been on the statute books for a considerable number , of years. This legislation has been quite successful in its operation. One needs only to look at the statistics that are contained in the table to which I have referred to see that approximately two-thirds of the benefit that is provided by this legislation is given to the export of manufacturing goods, such as machinery and other like components. That is the kind of area into which Australia has to expand its overseas trade in the future. 1 think that in that field at least the legislation has been successful. But the Government might have to find a quite different hook on which to hang this benefit now that it has handed payroll tax over to the States, "because apparently the difficulty is thai concessions of this kind must somehow be aligned to indirect concessions rather than to direct ones. I am sure that that will throw up some problems for the Government when it revises this legislation which expires in J 972-73. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
1 want to say something about one of the matters which the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said has been adequately covered, namely, the international monetary situation. With all respect to the- Minister, scarcely anything at all of a definitive nature was said about it this evening. Not having the advantage of a copy of the Prime Minister's statement, I could only listen to what he said, and . in quoting one or two of his phrases I hope I do not misquote him. He said about the international currency arrangements that 'it was a difficult, unresolved problem'. He said: 'Australia wants an early resolution of the present impasse'. He went on to say: 'Competitive devaluation could occur and if it did it could have unpleasant consequences'. Finally he said: 'Australia reserves its position'. To begin with. I would like to ask: How long can Australia continue to reserve its position? I have been a little intrigued this evening by what is described by the Minister for Shipping and Transport as a great trading bloc, the European Common Market. 
I would draw the attention of the House to some very interesting figures that were contained in the November 1971 issue of the bulletin of the Australian Industries Development Association. They give a picture of the direction of Australia's export trade covering the period from 1948-49 to 1970-71. In 1948-49. 68.5 per cent of Australia's export trade went to 
Europe and only 14.6 went to Asia, while 5 per cent went to what is described as Oceania which, according to the bulletin, means the Australian Territories, New Zealand and its Territories and other Pacific Islands. To hear the Minister speak tonight one would think that that also was the position that prevailed in 1970-71. However, the figures show that in 1970-71, 25.1 per cent of the total Australian export trade went to Europe as against 68.5 per cent some 20-odd years before. Our trade with Asia increased to 43.2 per cent of our total while our trade with Oceania increased to 1 1 per cent. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  this evening said that we now have a wider appreciation of American and British thinking on a wide range of international problems. One would expect when the Prime Minister went to America and Britain that those were the matters to discuss, but what is missing at the moment is any attempt by Australia to have talks on the position of international currency with our principal trading partner now, Japan. Last evening I happened to be reading the latest issue of the "Economist' available in Australia. It is dated 13th November 1971 and on page 87 it shows a picture of  Mr Connally,  the United States Secretary of the Treasury, talking with  Mr Fukuda  of Japan. The caption asks: 'Bilateral bargaining?' The action which America took on 1 6th August it took for its own purposes, external as well as internal, and the action which it took, in essence, breached 2 very significant international arrangements in which America was supposed to be a partner. I refer first to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The 10 per cent surcharge imposed by the United States, was in breach of GATT. Secondly, the action which America took unilaterally about suspending the conversion of gold at S3 5 an ounce was also in breach of America's arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. lt seems that in the present Prime Minister and the present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  we have 2 of the greatest quoters of economic jargon with whom this country has ever been afflicted. They talk rather easily about its being better that trade should be multilateral than bilateral. But the Minister for Shipping and Transport. who has just resumed his seat, said that nothing was better than the 2 most important people of the 2 countries concerned getting together and talking about their individual and particular problems with each other. I would submit that that is what is necessary now as far as Australia and Japan are concerned. 
How long can we wait? Is it any wonder that there is some difficulty about the sale of wool to Japan - wool is still the principal commodity we sell to Japan - when uncertainty exists in Australia, and I have said this now for the last 2 months, as to whether Australia is to follow the US dollar downwards or the yen upwards? Is it any wonder that potential Japanese buyers of wool are not interested when they do not know whether the rate of conversion is to be approximately 400 yen to the Australian dollar or 360 yen to the Australian dollar, which must be the position if we have a choice of either a 10 per cent devaluation or an appreciation of the yen in relation to the American dollar and we do not commit ourselves as to whether we want to go one way or the other. I think also it is not surprising that there is a reluctance about the purchase price of wool when the Australian Government places a type of ceiling price of 36c a lb on wool and then is prepared to guarantee a price at that level from a margin some 5c to 6c a lb below that price? 
What I submit is necessary is that a delegation of the highest officials comprising representatives of the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of the Treasury should go to Japan on the same sort of terms on which the Prime Minister recently went to North America and to Britain. A certain amount of nostalgia, if I may call it such, is associated with these recent journeys but not a very great awareness of the problems of 1971 leading towards 1980. How long can we afford to wait for something to happen? Why should we not enter into some kind of separate arrangement by saying to the Japane.se: We believe that our commodity, wool, is undervalued in terms of the price per kilo today irrespective of how exchange rate arrangements may vary'? Why not come to a separate arrangement that would quote the Australian dollar in relation to the yen on some term's that were mutually suitable. 
Japan is one of the greatest trading nations of the world. But trade is a twosided process, lt is a process that involves exports, and it is a process that involves imports. What is called the exchange rate that is arrived at at any particular point in time is something that is supposed to satisfy both sides in transactions of this kind. When the point is reached where uncertainty exists as to what an exchange rate should be, there are some people in each country who are advantaged either as exporters or as importers when the exchange rate is fixed at one rate rather than at another. This is where room exists for mutually satisfactory arrangements between the 2 sides concerned. 
We see this here with some people who in many respects are quite contradictory in their altitudes. I refer particularly to members of the Country Party who on the one hand want devaluation because it would favour the export of rural products but who at the same time claim that one of the difficulties facing rural industry is the level of tariffs in Australia. After all, devaluing the currency is equivalent to increasing the tariff. Other people adopt a different attitude. I refer to the metal industries in particular which, because they thought some years ago, for shrewd reasons, that the US dollar was the currency that would stay perennially as the strongest currency in the world - I think that it will not be very much longer before it will become so again - for sheer economic reasons chose to have the sale prices of Australian minerals to countries like Japan quoted not in Australian dollars but in American dollars. Naturally enough, that industry wants devaluation. But there are other interests in the country which believe that a good sifting out of some Australian problems would be achieved if our currency was revalued or appreciated. 
I would like to go on record individually as saying that I do not think that there is any case for the devaluation of the Australian currency. I am not too sure that there should not be some caution as to how far and how fast we might want it to move upward. We stuck for a while with sterling when it appreciated, relative to the 
US dollar. Now we are not quite sure whether the luck of sterling will Hold much longer. 
The honourable member for Stirling is speaking in a much more dispassionate fashion than I am. As for the American dollar, I think it is time that we gave a little bit of separate and special consideration to our problems with the yen. I am one who believes that exchange rates should be adjusted for the benefit of trade. They should not be adjusted for the benefit of financial speculators who indulge in transactions which have nothing whatever to do with the welfare of people but have a great deal to do with their own speculamania'. 1 think that the time is ripe for some high level talks to take place between Australia and Japan about our future trading relationships. I think that this would be to the mutual advantage of both of us and might stir some of the' giants into realising that occasionally the smaller interests of the world should be considered as well as the greater ones. 
 I must confess to being astonished at the attitude taken by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  The honourable member for Kalgoorlie.  (Mr Collard)  has raised for discussion as a matter of public importance: 
The urgent need for the Government, to provide assistance to the gold mining industry to prevent the' large scale unemployment and population and economic disruption which must otherwise occur on the gold fields of Western Australia. 
I would have thought that the Minister might at least display a little bit of sympathy for the cause. He attempted to pass it off as a cheap electoral trick on the part of my colleague, the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. To my mind, this is to disparage the claims being made on behalf of a population of between 23,000 to 25,000 and on behalf of an industry which has contributed a great deal to the prosperity of this country and which can continue to do so if it is looked at sympathetically. 
As I understand it, every member of the House has received a copy of this document which has been prepared by the gentle.man who has been mentioned in -.his debate,  Mr Brodie-Hall.  The document is entitled The Gold Subsidy Case',  ft  carefully sets out the .specific reasons why an increase in the gold- subsidy has been sought. I might have understood if the Treasurer had indicated that he was in some difficulties by reason - of contractual arrangements with the International Monetary Fund which affected what he could do in this case. But he did not even attempt that. He seemed not to think that the matter was of great concern. On page 2 of this document, the compilers state: 
Increasing the gold subsidy is justified because it would mean; a minimum interruption to the development of Kalgoorlie ... . 
Surely that is a worthy enough objective in itself. A statement by a former Treasurer - the statement was made in 1968 so it must have been the gentleman who is now Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  - is quoted. He thought that on the basis of circumstances in 1968 the advancement of the nickel industry might well look after this problem. But circumstances have changed quite rapidly since then. 
I refer to an article which appeared in today's edition of the. Melbourne 'Sun'. Certain remarks are attributed to the West Australian Minister for Development and Decentralisation,  Mr Herbert  Graham. He said:   . . he would be 'disappointed but not surprised' if Poseidon Ltd decided to defer production from its Mount Windarra ,nickel deposit. 
The report goes on to say that:    . . he would not be surprised if this was the case while the present economic situation prevailed and if Poseidon did defer production it would conform with a world-wide pattern. 
On the other hand, the second point made by the compilers of this report to justify increasing the gold subsidy is:   . . the maintenance of the present value of its infrastructrue . . . 
The figure in this respect, as quoted by them, is approximately $130m. If we take the minimum interest rate on this kind of activity - these days the ruling rate seems to be 6 per cent or 7 per cent - a return of approximately S9m annually is in jeopardy here. I would contrast the type of attitude that seems to be expressed about attracting new capital to a country with the position of capital that is already there but which could be more satisfactorily utilised if the Government would lift a finger or two to do something about the situation. 
The compelling point in this document is the third point made in support of an increase in the gold subsidy. This is:' 
. the capacity to generate further funds for the Federal and State Governments.  lt is suggested that this matter should be considered in terms of the situation in 1980. Surely we no longer think in terms of the present. 1 think that this Government approaches problems on a week to week basis instead of on the basis of what may be the situation and requirements 10 years forward. This document suggests that by 1980 Kalgoorlie and its environs ought to be producing exports of the magnitude of S2,000m of which, it is expected, approximately $280m would return to this Government in the form of taxes. This is the sort of perspective that we hoped the Treasurer might have been moved to express this afternoon. But he has tried to pass responsibility back to the States by saying: 'Well, we are giving you more money; you could do more'. Perhaps the States could. But so could the Commonwealth. This is what the purpose of this exercise is. The Treasurer has had this document, as has every member of this House, for some months. What has made these people come here now is that the situation has deteriorated so dramatically in the last several months. Part of the deterioration is due to an internal change of circumstances and part of the deterioration is due to events overseas such as the prospects for the development of nickel in the future. 
Here, however, is a classic case in which the Government could grapple with a problem which could affect existing decentralisation in this State. Apparently the Government is not concerned that people in Kalgoorlie may have to move from the district to Perth and Fremantle because of a sum of SI. 5m which will riot be forthcoming from this Government. 1 suggest that the attitude of the- Government is belittling this very real problem that exists in our midst, lt is said over and again that the future of the export trade of this country lies in the development of the mineral industries and sums of the magnitude of $500m to SI, 000m are spoken of. Here we have an established industry which has a capitalisation infrastructure in the town of Kalgoorlie itself of the order of SI 30m and for which the potential in the future runs into thousands of millions of dollars, yet, for the sake of an ha'p'orth of tar, the Government is only interested in trying to make political capital out of the situation. 
I would have expected better of the Treasurer. As I said yesterday, he is running the great danger of . becoming the greatest spewer out of economic jargon with which the country has ever been afflicted. He should get down to the problems. He should not be beset by the fact that we are a small nation in a very big world. Maybe Australia is, but it can be more influential than it is at present. Here we have a relatively small problem in a very large continent, but the Government is not prepared to look sympathetically at it. I am surprised at the actions of the Treasurer. 1 thought he had at least some elements of humanity about him and some degree of  enlightenment,  hut has vision whatever as far as this problem is concerned. The future of this town of something like 25,000 people, which is represented well by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, is in jeopardy simply because the Government will not contrive to find a simple solution which could give another $1.5m to it. It may be that the Government will not need to provide that assistance by way of the gold subsidy. It may be that the Government could give it direct to the local council or to particular industries. It may be that the Government can give some abatement on this rather than that. But for Heaven's sake have a look at the prospects instead of trying to secure cheap political capital at thu expense of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, who moved this motion - as he ought to have done - on behalf of the constituents who sent him here to represent them. 
-I give notice that at the next sittingI shall move: 
That the Government no longer possesses the confidence of the House because of the failure of its economic policies. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Melbourne Ports moving forthwith the motion of want of confidence of which he has given notice for the next day of sitting and such motion taking precedence of all other business until disposed of. 
I have moved the motion on behalf of the Opposition, which believes that the economic situation facing the nation is so serious that we must have a full scale debate in the House leading, if possible, to the defeat of the Government and a change of Government. Time and again at question time when questions relating to the economy have been asked both of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  we have been fobbed off with statements such as The Government has it in hand' or 'We are looking at it and we will act when we have to'. I submit that no-one in the nation, except the Prime Minister and the Treasurer, believes any longer that the Government is on top of the economic situation and that it is time that the issue be fully ventilated in the House. I do not want in the course of this motion, which is merely one for the suspension of standing orders, to outline in broad detail the attack which the Opposition proposes to launch; but nobody can deny that, in an economy under a government that claims itself lo be a believer of full employment, the employment situation is deteriorating day by day. One needs only to look at the Government's own publications, such as the Treasury Information Bulletin, to see that there has been a decline in the rate of economic performance for the three-quarters of the year listed in that document as compared with the three-quarters of the previous year, which was no year of good performance either. 
The White Paper reveals that in that year we had one of the lowest records in recent times of increase in real gross national product when corrected for increase in population and changes in prices. I do not think anyone can but be alarmed at the accelerating rate of inflation as evidenced by the consumer price index, the import index or the wholesale price index, whichever one chooses to look at. They show a rapid deterioration last year. In an economy in which employment is Calling and prices are rising and in which the majority of people who derive incomes do so by reason of employment or as recipients of pensions or fixed income pensions, how can people but be alarmed at the deterioration shown in those 2 indicators? 
One could go into more depth in relation to the economy. It seems that in many respects the Government is merely twiddling with the situation instead of reaching down to grasp the comprehensive problems that are the seat of this trouble. I would describe the Government as a Government that has neither nose nor nous. It has no nose to smell what is wrong and it has no nous to put things right. It is because of that that we suggest that this opportunity should be given to debate this matter and to let honourable members opposite debate it also. After all, there is a certain degree of difference on the other side. The Government is not the unanimous body that it claims to be and there are plenty of reasons in the economy at the moment why there should be dissent. Perhaps it is not easy to put one's finger on a neat programme of solutions but at least there are some things that it is within the power of a government to do which this Government is refusing to do. 
The Government can acknowledge that what is called the Budget strategy is far from being correct. It can do something about removing some of the taxes that were imposed. It can do something to relieve the circumstances of those who are dependent on fixed incomes - on pensions in particular - and the recipients of the unemployment benefit. The Government can do something to alter the tax pattern and something to bring down the rate of interest prevailing in this country even more than it tentatively has started to do, and it can do something to adjust sales tax. There are plenty of things on which action can be taken. But the opportunity should also bc given to this Parliament to debate what might be called longer term difficulties as well as the immediate short term ones. I think the Budget that we have just disposed of in this House shows more clearly than any other Budget that has ever been presented in this Parliament how inadequate it is as a prescription for the times ahead. It can do little more than adjust the course that was wrongly taken in the previous Budget and try to set a somewhat different course at the beginning of the next year. But there are limits to what a Budget can do and the Budget has to operate in the context of the whole economy. In fact, it is a bit difficult sometimes to decide with all the theories and jargon that are paraded these days whether ultimately the Budget balances the economy or the economy balances the Budget. There is no doubt, looking at the short term problem - this is a government that can scarcely be asked in view of its record to lift its eyes to the hills and look at the long term problems - that no longer does anybody, even the most devout supporter of the Prime Minister or the Treasurer, concede that what was done in the August Budget was the right prescription or, if it were thought to be right then that it is right 3 months later. This can be seen in the way in which the Treasurer and the Prime Minister will grasp at any sort of day to day set of statistics that are laid on their tables as they did last week about the document showing the national income for the first quarter of this year which can be only a preliminary assessment. All that it does show is some tentative sort of improvement on what previously had been one of the most depressed quarters in history anyway. But all the indices given in that document are uncorrected either for prices or some other matters not yet determined. It seems to the Opposition that the attitude of the Government is that everything will turn out right in the end. 
A modern economy such as Australia's is not only dependent on internal economic activity but also highly reliant on events outside and to suggest that we can run the economy any longer just on hunches rather than by some semblance of long term planning shows how deficient in economic thinking the Government really is. I have been surprised in recent days to find, even in quarters that one would have thought would have been the most avid supporters of this Government in the past, doubt as to whether they are going to support it in the future. I am also interested to find that sometimes the word 'planning' is no longer regarded as a dirty word so far as the total performance of an economy is concerned. But we are a country which believes in economic growth. We are a country which believes in stability of prices. We are a country that claims to adhere to full employment techniques. We are a country which believes in some equity as between one section of the community and another and we are one that acknowledges that the balance of payments, exchange rates and terms of trade are highly significant as far as the destiny of our people is concerned. 
There are the matters that we  want to  touch upon in the debate which would ensue if my motion be agreed to. We believe that this debate ought to have the highest priority in the arrangement of the business of the House. We are tired of the continual fobbing off by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer in particular as the two who ought to be the custodians of the overall economic health of the community. They evade answers, they appear not to realise the seriousness of problems. They even seem to ignore some things that everybody else regards as problems but of which they appear to be entirely unaware. Therefore for those reasons I have taken the second step, consequent upon the first step, of moving for the suspension of the Standing Orders, and I repeat the terms of my motion. They were: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Melbourne Ports moving forthwith the motion of want of confidence of which he has given notice for the next day of sitting and such motion taking precedence of all other business until disposed of. 
I move: 
That the Government no longer possesses the confidence of the House because of the failure of its economic policies. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  concluded his Budget Speech on 17th August this year with this rather bold declaration: 
On its own, the Budget cannot, of course, ensure that the nation's objectives are achieved. But this Budget, concerned as it is with the high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security, provides the essential framework for the attainment of these national goals. 
In some of the small print in the documents which accompanied the Budget Speech the following statement appears:   the likely economic effects of a budget can only be fully assessed in the context of the more important influences operating at lbc time in the economy as a whole.  1 wish firstly to outline briefly what might be described as national objectives as far as the economy is concerned and then to endeavour to look at some of the important influences and to suggest that, because of the way in which those influences are working, what is rather blandly described as the Budget strategy is no longer correct. I think it is probable that there is generally accepted agreement in Australia about the goals of economic policy. I would summarise them under about 6 heads. I do not necessarily put them in order because I think that they have to be integrated. One of the difficulties in Australia is that we are not able to pursue properly an integrated economic policy because of the failure of the Government to act in some areas in which it could act. The goals as I have listed them - 1 repeat that they are not necessarily listed in order of importance - are: Firstly, the maintenance of full employment; secondly, price stability; thirdly, a satisfactory rate of economic growth; fourthly, efficient use of resources; fifthly, equitable distribution of incomes in the community; and, sixthly and finally, what might be described as a balance of payments equilibrium. In none of those fields is the current performance of the Government satisfactory. 1 want to examine a few of these briefly, mainly by reference to documents that are published by the Government itself. One of these documents, for instance, is the most recent issue of the 'Treasury Information Bulletin' for the quarter ended September 1971. That document contains a table which shows an increase in civilian employment and it lists for comparison 3 quarters in 1970 and the same periods in 1971, the quarters ended February, May and August. Taking the figures for the 2 years - and these figures are seasonally adjusted - there has been a drop of over 43,000 in the rate of absorption in employment in 1971 as against the rate in 1970. Another ominous note - and this can be deduced from the employment statistics which are published monthly by the Government - is that as well as the increase in the number of unemployed and a slowing down in the rate of absorption there is also a reduction in the number of unfilled vacancies. 
The last monthly review, that one for October, shows that the number of registered unemployed was 17,500 greater in October 1971 than in October 197!) and the number of unfilled vacancies was 11,000 less. In total at that time there were some 62,000 people unemployed, chasing about 40,000 available jobs. This total seriously camouflages the position as between unemployed in metropolitan a'td non-metropolitan areas, between skilled and unskilled unemployed, between males and females unemployed and between single and married people unemployed. In fact the statistics are strangely deficient in regard to married people unemployed.  In  fie non-metropolitan areas - those areas outside the capital cities - there are 3 males seeking each available job and nearly 4 ladies chasing each job available for Female employment. Two-thirds of the total male unemployed in both categories, metropolitan and non-metropolitan, are in 2 categories - semi-skilled and unskilled manual. In the latter category, unskilled manual, there were 8 people chasing each job. 
Oddly enough, in the metropolitan area according to the statistics in regard to female unemployed, there were 9,800 job seekers and potentially 17,000 available jobs, which would seem to throw some doubt on the descriptive classification between jobs and job seekers. While the total unemployment figure is divided roughly into 29,000 in the non-metropolitan areas and 33,500 in the metropolitan areas the number of available jobs for the 29,000 people in the country is 9,000 and in the metropolitan areas there arc 32,000 available jobs. At least this points to quite serious regional difficulties as far as employment opportunity is concerned. So much for this question of employment. 
I turn lo another matter, that of prices. If one quotes the 'Treasury information Bulletin', the consumer price index in the September quarter was 1.7 per cent higher than in the previous quarter. Again an ominous note - the rise was the largest for a September quarter since 1956. It should be pointed out that these figures do not yet reflect the consequences of increases in indirect taxes in the 1971-72 Budget, but merely carry on the devastation caused in the 1970-71 Budget, lt ought to be remembered, too, that it was the December quarter of last year that indicated the acceleration of inflation for that year. The major part: of the stimulus to an increase in inflation was the strategy of the 1970-71 Budget. The 'Treasury Information Bulletin' goes on to note in respect of the recent September quarter: 
More than  half  the increase in the total index in the September quarter was contributed by the miscellaneous group -  and it adds -  due mainly to increases in the prices of health services and fares. 
Again, those matters are in the hands of one or other level of government in Australia. Whilst the consumer price index rose by 6.5 per cent from September to September - that is, over this 12 months period - the wholesale price of materials used in house building rose by 7.3 per cent, and import prices, it is noted, also continued to rise strongly. Time does not allow me to catalogue more in the price field but in an economy where the majority of people who derive incomes do so as wage earners, the awful combination of falling employment opportunities and rising prices deserves more attention than it has currently been receiving from the Government. Basically, this is the reason for the launching of this attack. 
I turn now to the matters that are more fundamental to the structure of the economy and, of course, if the structure of the economy is not working satisfactorily, it is little wonder that some difficulty is encountered in regard to employment opportunities. Again, the White Paper on National Income and Expenditure which was brought down with the Budget showed last year to have been a very poor one from the point of view of overall economic growth. That can be seen from the table contained on page 5 of the White Paper, which lists for a number of years the increase in the gross national product. As I have said, last year was the poorest one for many years. 
The other clay the Treasurer seemed to be obtaining great solace from the fact that the recently issued estimates for the September quarter showed, I think what he in one place described as, a 12 per cent increase. 1 take it that the 12 per cent is the figure for the gross national product, and 1 indicate that at this stage it is a tentative figure, to say the least. By comparing that figure for the September quarter of 1971-72 with the same figure for the September quarter of 1970-71, the Treasurer deduces that the increase is of the order of 12 per cent. Of course, what he docs noi say is that there was something like a 7.5 per cent change in prices in the same period. Of course, if one is talking sensibly about economic growth in an economy whose population is rising, whose work force is increasing or ought to be increasing because of the rising population, and where prices arc also increasing, it is a very shallow analysis to compare one period with another period without making some adjustment for prices. Had the Treasurer taken the comparison between some other quarter - for instance, between the June and June instead of between September and September - he would have found that the performance difference was 10.6 per cent. However, in that same quarter there had been a change in prices of 1.7 per cent. If one adds 10.6 per cent and 1.7 per cent and tries to deduce that an index of 12 per cent is good, I think this again is merely indicative of the Government grasping at straws instead of grappling with problems. An economy is a sensitive kind of instrument. If you like, it is a mechanism or a system and I think it is about time that it was acknowledged that economics cannot be other than very slightly stimulated by an assorted rag bag of varieties for everybody which is produced one night in August and which is supposed to set the course for the rest of the year. As I said yesterday, if ever there were a Budget whose forecasts and estimates were wrong almost from the time they were written, it was the 1971-72 Budget. 1 suppose the Treasurer was unfortunate in that the Budget was written just prior to measures announced by the  President  of the United States of America with regard to America's own economy. I submit that, on most of the evidence which is available from both government sources and elsewhere., there is no great indication that the economy is buoyant, lt is not fully stretched. 
The other significant thing in an economy is that there should be efficient use of resources and that means not only natural resources, materials and so on; it also means manpower as well. In a country such as Australia, which cries out for so much basic development, it is a sign of gross mismanagement when there is any significant degree of unemployment at all. Now that it seems that unemployment is spilling over into the skilled as well as the unskilled field, unless it is grappled with it will become very hard to change in a very short time. One thing which was fairly evident both from the documents attached to the Budget and from observations contained in the Reserve Bank report and of the manager of the Commonwealth Trading Bunk is that, whilst the Austraiian Government rightly or wrongly was trying to pursue a certain kind of monetary policy, to a  great  extent that policy was being nullified by the abnormal inflow of capital to Australia. The previous Prime Minister made the rather astonishing admission as far back as February of this year that Government sources did not know where a lot of this capital was flowing. The feeling was that it was flowing into building construction other than dwelling construction. Again, the figures contained in the White Paper bore out that feeling because they showed a decline in real terms last year in building construction for dwelling purposes, but a significant increase in other 
21 368/71 -  R-  1138) 
kinds of building. The White Paper showed also, when related to real terms, that there had been a decline in the provision of infrastructure^ - the expenditure by the States and the Commonwealth on public works. lt seems that that unabated flow of capital is still continuing. Surely, with all the devices that are supposed to be available to the Treasury and the Reserve Bank, it should be possible for some sort of control to be kept upon the flow of capital into this country. Surely if money comes in it should come in for purpose and not for speculation. Surely the Government can say it ought to be for purpose and not just for some speculative venture because the interest rate on investment is higher here than somewhere else. Tt might be difficult to exercise this control, but difficult tasks dismay this Government. But the misplacement of action i? wrought upon the ordinary people in the community and many of them are beginning to rebel. 
The other economic goal I want to say a little about because time is running out - I will finish on this one - is the balance of payments and the equitable distribution of income. Despite what some people claim, we are not one of the most highly taxed communities in the world, but 1 would suggest that if proper tests were applied to the distribution of what is collected in both income tax and indirect tax they would show that we are one of the most inequitably taxed countries in the world. The present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  to whom the previous Prime Minister did not regard as fit to continue as Treasurer, thought, when he was the Treasurer, that the taxation structure ought to be reformed.  His  successor as Treasurer, not liked by the next Prime Minister, thought so also and made a speech to that effect attacking the measures of his colleague. The present Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  apparently pays some deference to the idea of taxation reform but there is no action. Whatever increases in taxation were made recently only distort the balance in favour of equity and against inequity. What about equity of distribution for that large section in the community which numbers now about one-quarter of the work force - that is, recipients of social service pensions of one kind or another, plus those who are on private and public superannua- tion and whose incomes are fixed? How have they fared as far as equity of distribution is concerned? 
I come now to this question which involves both the balance of payments and this rather odd thing called the strategy of the Budget. Again I refer honourable members to the pages of small print in the Budget, the stuff that is written behind the scenes but which ought to be studied and which I am sure is studied but perhaps not as closely as it ought to be. On page 15 of the appendages to the Budget there appears a table headed 'Liquidity and the Volume of Money - Analysis of Formation Factors Movements'. Plunked in the middle of that somewhere is this rather curious item 'Budget domestic surplus'. I spoke about this matter in my speech on the Budget in August and 1 drew attention to the fact that it is not a plus as some people might imagine; it is a minus. At the bottom of page 15 of the document it states: 
As the table shows, the Commonwealth Budget domestic surplus withdrew about $460m from the volume of money for the year 1970-71 as a whole. While this was less than originally provided for -  1 think the Treasurer indicated, using a rather choice word, that it had changed adventitiously' during the year.   . . and smaller than in 1969-70, it was nevertheless substantially greater than in other recent years. There was also in the last financial year a relatively large increase of about $277m in the holdings of Commonwealth securities by the non-bank private sector which added to the contractionary monetary effects of the Commonwealth's transactions. 
This year, the item 'Budget domestic surplus' is pitched, it is said, at a level of $630m. I ask honourable members to contemplate that this is not what mathematicians might call an independent variable. It is more correctly described as a dependent variable, unless the Government chooses to make it more independent than it would be, by itself taking action of an expansionary kind. But it is made up in the long run by additions arid subtractions from a curious entity called the volume of money. It is influenced by events from overseas. It is influenced by the policy followed internally by the Reserve Bank with regard to the purchase or selling of securities. These are what are called 'open market operations'. It is influenced also by whether people in the business, and particularly in financial institutions, choose to invest in Government securities rather than something else. It is conditioned by the rate of interest. It is conditioned by the flow of capital from overseas. 
We submit that in none of these fields has the Government indicated any measures as to the courses that it proposes to take. It may take certain short term and palliative processes, such as changing some of the taxes that it has imposed already, or by increasing social service benefits. Social service benefits ought to be increased for their own sake rather than as the result of some sheer, harsh economic doctrine. Or, the Government could get back to the old device of expanding public works particularly in the fields of education and health. But on the external impact of the economy, and despite what the Government says about the greatest contributor to inflation being the ruthless pursuit of wage demands, there is not any doubt that one of the contributants to inflation in Australia is that now we import it via the monetary system 
In many respects, it was put rather broadly by a description that I have been reading which pointed out that by default, one might say, America is becoming the central bank of the world. This is not anything that any country should accept without some serious contemplation of it. The internal economic destiny of a country ought to reside in the control of its own money measures. But it is foolish to imagine that a country can isolate itself entirely from external events, least of all a country like Australia, which is one of the highest, external trading countries. When, rather curiously, exports and imports are added together and expressed in terms of gross national product, we find that Australia is one of the biggest traders in terms of total economy than are most economies. For that reason, items like the terms of trade and the rates of exchange are highly significant. 
The Treasurer went overseas. The Prime Minister went overseas. They returned and they made certain veiled announcements about what was happening. But when we read what other countries are doing we see - I know that the Treasurer believes this as a theoretical principle, andI would support him - that trade is better if it is multilateral than if it is bilateral. If a country finds that pleasures are being taken bilaterally by others - and it is not endeavouring to match this by some kind of discussion itself - it is likely to be left out in the pace of events. Japan had talks with Germany. The United States of America had high-level 'talks with Japan. There seems to have been visitations by various Ministers from Australia to Japan. But there has never been any significant high-level group meeting to discuss together with that country our mutual trade arrangements. I submit that it is time the Government took some action on that. 1 also submit that when it looks at all the indicators that are available to it and realises that the Budget is a past event - almost a non-event -it will see that it is time that it announced a constructive programme and above all that the Treasurer sunk his pride and admitted that the Budget strategy was not correct. 
This Bill comes to us via the Senate because the present Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  resides in the Senate and not in the House of Representatives. The legislation that we have before us arises because of a decision which was given in the High Court of Australia in what was known as the Rocla Pipes case - that is a short description - or, correctly, as Strickland v Rocla Concrete Pipes Ltd. Section 51 of the Constitution states that: 
The Parliament shall, subject  to this  Constitution, have power  to make laws for the peace,  order and  good  government  of the  Commonwealth with respect  to: 
The section then lists 39 areas of jurisdiction. Placitum (xx.) states: 
Foreign corporations, and trading  or  financial corporations formed within the limits  of  the Commonwealth. 
Several years ago the Parliament enacted laws with regard to restrictive trade practices. Restrictive trade practices legislation is an admission that whilst competition is desirable it is prevented from operating reasonably in considerablesections of industry. 1 am fortified to some extent by a lecture given in Tasmania by the former Attorney-General, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  on 10th October 1970. He said: 
The Act- 
That is, the  Act  that was held invalid in Strickland v. Rocla Concrete Pipes Ltd -  is founded upon the position that competition in business is, generally speaking, desirable for economic and social reasons. While competition can be uncomfortable for those affected by it, its pressure tends to restrain costs and prices and constitutesa continuing inducement to businesses to improve their efficiency. 
He said much more but at least he indicated -I think it is a view which is held particularly by honourable members opposite -that we live in what is described as a competitive free enterprise economic system. Nevertheless, in Australia we often have some difficulties in this field because, as a result of the scale at which economic activity is conducted and in relation to our population, it must be acknowledged that perhaps one or two and certainly often less than 3 firms can be preponderant in a particular field. When the legislation was declared invalid by the High Court the reason given was that had it been founded on the power that I have quoted, namely, the power of the Commonwealth with regard to corporations, perhaps it would not have been invalid. The AttorneyGeneral said that the present Bill is designed to close what might be described as drafting loopholes. My colleague,  Senator Murphy,  who led this debate in the other place said that the new legislation might be described as:   . . a model of impotency, a monument to the Government's determination to put the interests  of  big business, monopolies and multi-national corporations before the interests  of  the public. 
At least the Australian Labor Party is greatly interested in what might be called the public interest. Section 52 of this proposed Bill attempts to define what is the public interest. It indicates some of the difficulties that confront us in trying to define public interest. The Bill is inadequate in many respects and my colleague, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  who is experienced in the law relating to this subject, will delineate better thanI am able to do our objections to this legislation. My colleague,  Senator Murphy,  described the public interest clause as: 
. a glaring loophole for those wishing  to  frustrate the spirit of the Act. 
If an attempt were made to define the spirit of this Act, I should think that there would be considerable ideological debate on the matter. What we come up against the power of corporate activity in the modern economy. I do not think that anybody denies that the sort of economic activity that is indulged in in most modern economies nowadays could not occur except via what we describe as companies or what other countries call corporations. When the word 'company' is used, 1 point out that there may be great disparities in the size of companies. In our law we have a kind of broad recognition of the difference in scope. We divide companies into what are described sometimes as private companies and sometimes as public companies. Statistics supplied by the Commissioner of Taxation undoubtedly would show that the majority of what are described as companies in our system are registered as private companies, but there is also no doubt that the most significant form of operation in Australia is the public company or, for want of a better term, the public corporation. Some of them, in relation to the total economy, are quite gigantic in their operations and, unfortunately, many of them are now inter-meshed with other corporations which have their headquarters outside of Australia. 
One of the circumstances bedevilling Australia at the moment -I think that to some degree, this was touched on during the debate on the economy this afternoon - is that more and more we see in Australia that the biggest operators in the corporate field are companies whose shares are owned entirely overseas or companies which are dominated considerably by either direct or indirect control of their operations. One need only mention such an enterprise as General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, which builds in Australia a product that still has a distinctively Australian name- the Holden motor car - but whose ownership is entirely outside of Australia. This is pretty true of the whole of the automotive industry in Australia, which is highly significant to this country. It is true that once it is here it is entrapped by reason of the fact that its assets are here and its activities are here. We occasionally raise difficulties about what are called export franchises. There is some inability on the part of General Motors in Australia to sell in places such as Singapore or Malaysia, and to some extent that position in conditioned by the fact that enterprises similar to General Motors in Australia operate in places such as Singapore and Malaysia as well. It is understandable enough, I suppose, that they lessen the degree of competition by dividing the areas to which vehicles can be expoited. Nevertheless this is a significant factor in corporate activity. 
When this legislation that we are now refining was contemplated its architect was  Sir Garfield  Barwick, now Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia. He had within the confines of his Jaw provisions that would have covered what are described these days as mergers or takeovers. When my colleague in the other place was debating this matter - I commend his speech to honourable members on both sides - he referred to some statistics that have been compiled by Professor Wheelright, the associate professor of economics at the University of Sydney, whom he described as one of Australia's authorities in this field. He said that Professor Wheelright had estimated that there now are 2 takeovers a week on average in this country. He went on further to say that Professor Wheelright's estimate is that over recent years foreign takeovers have averaged one every 3 weeks. Somehow we have to put these 2 sets of statistics together.  Senator Murphy  went on: 
Often, he says, these arein an unrelated field, the latest being the buying out of old established vineyards-- 
I think he means firms like Lindemans and Orlando Wines in South Australia and I think another one in the Hunter Valley - by a large foreign owned paper making company, a tobacco company and a food processing com pany. 
These are all indications of what has happened. Already successfully established industries have been subject to takeover by interests outside Australia. There is not any doubt that following the decision in Strickland v. Rocla Concrete Pipes Ltd this Parliament has power to legislate with respect to trading and financial corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth and also with respect to foreign corporations. 
We are a bit sceptical about the claims by the Government both in this House and in another place that the Bill that is before us is only a holding operation and that the Government has in prospect more comprehensive legislation. I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  himself indicated that the matter had been the subject of a departmental inquiry. He said: 
I should like to stress the holding character  of  this Bill. 
He went on to say that the Government is currently reviewing this legislation with a view to strengthening it. Yet oddly enough although my. Party had inserted in the Bill in another place provisions which it believed strengthened this Bill Government supporters in this House are now proposing to take them out. The powers inserted in the Bill in the Senate dealt with 2 subject matters - predatory pricing and monopolisation and something described as discriminatory dealing. We find it a bit odd that the Minister should claim on the one hand that the Government wants to strengthen the Bill and yet, certain provisions having been inserted in it in another place, the Government now wants to take them out. After all the Bill originated in the Senate. Whatever honourable members may believe, in relation to all measures with the exception of money Bills, the Senate has identical powers with those of this House. It can initiate as it did in this measure, it can amend or. can negate if it wants to. A majority of the Senate decided on certain proposals being inserted and now the Government wants to take them out. 
I presume that we will have to bow to the majesty of numbers in this place and that those clauses inserted in the Senate will be deleted and that the Bill will have to go back to the Senate in the manner that we often receive Bills from the Senate - with a message that the Senate has agreed to the Bill with amendments. Presumably this measure which is described as a holding measure will go back to the Senate with a similar kind of message saying that the House of Representatives has concurred in the Restrictive Trade Practices Bill with amendments. An interesting proposition is: Where do we go from here and what is the consequence if the Senate insists, as it is entitled to insist, upon retaining what is in the Bill? Will the Government drop the measure and leave this country without any defensive mechanisms to deal with restrictive trade practices? 
I think all parties accept the inadequacy of present measures, although the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the former Prime Minister this afternoon commented favourably on certain measures that had been taken. Reference was made to one in this Bill relating to what is called resale price maintenance. If it be said that those amendments were accepted with grace by the Government, I think it is a travesty of the description that they were conceded in the long run because there was public pressure to include them. I think, with all respect to the former Prime Minister, that most of the economic measures that he listed as having been achievements of his Government in recent times were reluctantly conceded after pressure both from the Opposition here and from forces outside the Parliament. 
The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  who is indicating his disagreement, is one who bows to the winds when they blow, particularly when they are cold enough. All I am saying at the moment is that there is no doubt that the Government will marshal the numbers to execute what it desires. I would ask those honourable gentlemen on the other side of the House who believe that some sort of restrictive trade practices legislation is necessary whether they think the Bill is weakened by the inclusion of the proposals from the Senate. If they do I will be interested to hear their arguments as to why that is. I think we are getting a little sceptical to say the least. The Government has been in office for about 20 years and it has had this legislation in force for about 6 years. When the validity of this legislation was challenged in court the Government had to bow to the decision of the court, and it now says that it has in mind strengthening the Act. 
I am asking the Minister to adjudicate on the merits of the amendments which were inserted in the Bill in the Senate for the purpose of putting teeth into the force of the legislation and which the Minister now proposes to take out. In fact, the Minister brushed them aside fairly skilfully in his second reading speech. He said: T will not argue about them. I do not think that they ought to be in the Bill. I do not propose to say anything about them'. 
With all respect, I do not think that the Minister gave very adequate reasons. I ask the other section of the Government coalition whether it is pleased with the scope of corporate activity in Australia and the kinds of things that have occurred in recent times concerning takeovers, mergers and the like. What kind of teeth should be inserted in this legislation? Those on my side of the Parliament have asserted for a long time that restrictive practices legislation with effective teeth was required. I hoped that this debate might deal with the kinds of teeth required. All I suggest with all respect to the Minister is that in this legislation the Government wants false teeth that it can take out when the situation suits it. I am sure that this is not what the Australian public wants. A great deal of public concern exists about what is described as the domination of overseas interests in Australia. These interests are getting into the basic economic development of this country. I have mentioned the automotive industry as one example. That is one of the earlier phase. The later phase that has occurred is in relation to such things as oil refining, oil exploration, natural gas development, mineral development and so on. In these instances, the magnitude of the capital expenditure required is such that on one or two occasions we have had to say: 'We do not think that we can encompass this in Australia'. 
All I am suggesting is that the Rocla concrete pipes case opened up some interesting developments as far as the potentialities of this matter are concerned. I do not know why there was any kind of scepticism in Australia about our powers constitutionally over what are described in placitum 51 (x.) of the Commonwealth Constitution as foreign corporations. It goes further and says 'trading or financial corporations'. It was suggested by my Party that banking had substantially changed in its character and that much of what is called 'financial activity' is conducted now not directly by banks but by something which, by deficiency of definition, falls between banks at the one extreme, finance corporations in the middle and something else called merchant banks at third remove. If was argued that we had no power to operate in this field, lt was suggested from our side that we would treat this sort of thing as though it was within the scope of the constitutional power. I would concede that we tended to suggest that we would regard il as falling within the banking power. The decision in the High Court was that no longer should there be any impediment to legislating in Australia in respect of financial corporations. 
 Sometimes 1 must confess as a layman to being a li tie bewildered by the kind of precision lawyers will have about circumstances until a case is decided. One of the astonishing things in the Strickland v. Rocla Concrete Pipes Ltd case was that although so much had been assumed as being beyond the power of the Commonwealth this seemed to be resolved almost overnight. Lawyers basically may be conservative gentlemen. I think that unfortunately for the most part they are. Occasionally at least parliaments ought to begin to think of the role of the corporation in modern society This is an untapped field in Australia. It is one which is awakening a great deal more interest in the United States of America and Canada. Again 1 commend the speech made by  Senator Murphy  in which he referred to cer ain legislation that had recently been passed in our sister dominion of Canada. He said: 'The Canadian legislation stands beside the Australian Act like a tiger beside a kitten'. 
Well, we are pretty used to windy rhetoric in this place. I think that, occasionally, we ought to let the winds blow out and listen to the still small voice. The still small voice would suggest that nobody loves the big corporation. 
The Postmaster-General says that that is not true. Perhaps it is misguided, but  1  do not think that it is untrue. 
1 said that nobody loves the big corporation. 1 would concede to the Minister part of his point. We must live with the big corporation. We must do so in Australia. But we must do something to restrain the predatory power of the big corporation. At least we are reaching the situation in Australia where we are becoming concerned about such problems as pollution, the size of the corporate undertaking and things that we loosely describe as bureaucratic power. 
Let mc express my hope concerning this projected legislation to the Minister who represents the Attorney-General. The Minister was Attorney-General himself at one time. I. regarded him as an Attorney of some distinction. That may be placatory after some of the comments that I have made. The Minister has indicated that an inter-departmental inquiry into these matters has taken place. I hope there is a little more realisation in Australia: I cannot see any reason for the need in the existing Act of provisions such as the secrecy of the register. Why should these things need to be secret when, for the most part, they are concerned with companies that like to claim that they are public companies? If they are public companies, why do they not wish to divulge the extent of their activities? 
I would like to see the provisions of the onus of proof clause reversed. My colleague, the honourable member for the Australian Capita! Territory  (Mr Enderby),  will say more about this matter later. Why should the whole process be bogged down, as the present  Chairman  of the Tribunal,  Mr Bannerman,  suggests, simply because thousands of agreements can be registered and these must be investigated apparently, technically, one by one? Why should not all these agreements be presumed to be obstructive in the first place or be presumed to be against the public interest so that proof to the contrary would lie with the person registering the agreement instead of reversing what .seems' to be the pattern which is followed in the legislation in Great Britain and in the United States and in the now projected legislation in Canada. If companies want the protection of limited liability and certain other rights in the community and want the right to be called public companies, I think that they are under the duty to expect some son of public restraint on their operations. This seems to me to be' what the ambit of restrictive trade practices ought to be. The presumption ought to be that if you are big your interests may be against the general interest and you should have to prove that is not the case rather than the onus lying the other way. 1 hope that when the Government is contemplating its substantial amendments they will be the kinds of things it wilt look aL ] hope that it will look at the role of corporate power which, if wc are not careful, can be one of the forces which overwhelms the reality of democracy in a modern economy. 
These 3 Bills cover a variety of Commonwealth-State financial relationships. One bill deals with capital assistance which the Commonwealth proposes to give to the States. The States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill, which is an annual one, provides for grants to the States of Tasmania and South Australia under the terms of section 96 of the Constitution. The Slates Grants Bill (No. 2) reorganises the formula for distribution of the amount which goes from the Commonwealth to the States under the uniform tax reimbursement arrangements and so on. The kinds of assistance that the Commonwealth gives to the States are set Out in the publication that comes down in association with the Budget described as Commonwealth Payments lo or for the States 1971-72'. 1 refer to the table on page 10 of the' document which sets out Commonwealth payments to or for the States and Australian Loan Council borrowing programmes. In aggregate this year the Commonwealth will pay to the States an estimated sum of $3,480m. So 1 1 per cent or 1 2 per cent of the gross national product is distributed from the Commonwealth to the States from resources 01 an annual taxing kind and a capital kind that become available to the Commonwealth. 
If one consults the rather voluminous statistics that are contained in the 38Hi report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission dated 1971 it will be seen that every State in Australia, including even New South Wales, is now more than half dependent - some are as much as two-thirds dependent - for total financial resources on what comes to them from the Commonwealth. I suppose this indicates the financial domination of the Commonwealth. I would regard the financial domination of the Commonwealth as an inevitable part of our functioning federal system at the moment. The Commonwealth is best placed to collect the principal tax, the income tax as it is levied on individuals and companies. The Commonwealth is the only level of Government that has any jurisdiction over the issuance of money, the flow of credit and the central banking or Reserve Bank powers. But what has not been satisfactorily worked out as yet, of course, are flexible arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States. I want to include also a third level of government that operates in Australia - the important level of local government. 
What we have not worked out is a flexible and equitable formula that will match finance and function as far as the proper operation of our federal arrangements are concerned. The fact that so many measures come before the Parliament each year shows the unsatisfactory nature of the piecemeal solutions at which we have arrived. I know it is very easy for those who do not have to raise money to suggest to somebody who does that they are not getting enough of it for the functions they have to perform, and it is no easy matter to secure an equitable solution. But nevertheless it seems that in this area as in many others, the Commonwealth Government is not as properly appraised as it ought to be of what the real problems are. 
As I indicated earlier, I want to say something about what might bc described as the third level, or the poor relation, in the Commonwealth-State-local financial relationships. The poor relation is local government. One of the difficulties in this situation is to be able to find adequate, up-to-date statistical material that satisfactorily separates from the functioning of Commonwealth and States the activities of local authorities. A publication called 'State, Territory and Local Government Authorities' Finance and Government Securities' comes out regularly from the Commonwealth Statistician. The latest one I have was issued in December 1969. I presume that there is a later one, but it does not make a great deal of difference to my argument. I shall quote from Bulletin No. 6 issued in December 1969. which relates to the year 1967-68, some 4 years ago. What is interesting is the high amount of indebtedness that local authorities have incurred and how much of the annual resources available to local authorities goes in servicing the debt that has been incurred over the years. For the most part they are restricted as far as revenues are concerned by what is known as the local rate or the rate assessed in relation to the value of property. 
The total debt of the local authorities - this is extrapolated forward a bit from the last figure - would seem to aggregate something like $ 1,500m. I refer to local authorities as such. There is also a variety of other bodies, such as statutory authorities, State electricity undertakings and metropolitan boards of work, whose debt is much higher. As far as one can see, their aggregate debt is in the region of $5,000m. One can at least obtain later information about the overall debt of the Commonwealth and the States in the publication brought down with the Budget entitled 'Government Securities on Issue'. The latest one, for 30th June 1971, shows that Government securities have aggregated something like S 12,000m of which over S9,000m, or about three-quarters, was attributable to the States and $2,700m, or a bit less than a quarter, was attributable to the Commonwealth. 
Of course, it has been a bone of contention for some time that the Commonwealth has been able to pay for its public works out of revenue but the States have had to borrow, or have access to the loan market for, all the funds made available to them. In many cases they were paid out of the surplus revenues of the Commonwealth and not out of loan raisings at all. But even though, as the argument runs, these funds had been collected as taxes, they were loaned and interest was charged upon them. In many respects I have often believed this sort of thing to be in the nature of internal bookkeeping rather than as a substantial argument about proper allocation of functions. Nevertheless, it is certainly a real burden for the other level of government, the local authorities who do not have direct access to any revenue of their own except rates and who. if they engage in capital works, have to borrow as almost borrowers of last resort from such moneys as are left over after the Australian Loan Council has made its arrangements. 
In many cases local authorities are forced to borrow at rates of interest well in excess of 7 per cent. Often they have to borrow from life insurance companies or to secure bank overdrafts at the rate of 8 per cent. Their finances are in quite a serious plight. The Government at least seems to have conceded the argument of the States about capital funds. One of the Bills before this House, the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill, is part of the recommendation made by the previous Prime Minister at a Premiers Conference held earlier this year when he said that over a period of years the Government would assume something like $ 1,000m of the States' debt and pay the interest and sinking fund contributions on it and also that part of the funds made available to the Stales in future for capital works, as distinct from annual works, would be financed out of funds that would not bear an interest component. At least that relieves the surface picture for the States. 
Let me refer to the item 'Interest' in the document 'Public Authority Finance 1963- 64 to 1967-68'. I am sorry that the last available figures are only for 1967-68. There is a table in this document which lists the aggregate finances of State and local government authorities. On the one side are their receipts of a current kind and their capital receipts, and on the other side current outlay and capital outlay. Again, it does not separate the local authority from the State authority. But in 1967-68 the total receipts of State and local government authorities were $2,81 6m of which SI, 050m came from taxation which they raised themselves. That includes the local rates. An almost equal amount - $ 1.057m - came from grants from the Commonwealth Government. The other principal item was the gross operating surplus of public utilities, that is, electricity undertakings, gas. fuel, railways and so on. which had a gross operating surplus of $582m. They were the major components on the current receipts side. 
But on the outlay side we find the item of interest. The aggregate amount of interest to be met out of those funds of $2,81 6m for 1967-68 was $59 1 m. Of course, this simply shows the very real difficulty that interest charges represent  for  the State governments and local authorities. They impact more viciously upon the local authorities than they do upon the State governments because the State governments do pick up some of it in the reimbursement arrangements, and there is some adjustment of it now in the second Bill. What the States were able to do so far as capital adjustment was concerned was mainly due to their successful agitation at various Premiers Conferences, but so far the local authorities have not been quite  so  successful. In my State of Victoria there is a body known as the Committee for More Federal Finance for Local Government. T have no doubt that most Victorian members know of it and I think there are like bodies ;n other States. This body has prepared a submission to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon; on the position of local government in Australia in 1971. but with particular reference to Victoria. 
I want to make one or two quotations from the submission because they highlight the kind of difficulties that are facing local authorities. The document is very well prepared and I commend the Committee for its quality, lt gives a brief history of local government and indicates that its origins in Australia were similar to those of a like body in the United Kingdom 't  has  evolved to what it is from the middle of the 19th Century but modern society demands the assumption by local authorities of responsibilities that were not acceptable before. Many of them are in the nature of welfare services. They have the o'd traditional services, of course, of rating, fire brigade, waste disposal and sewerage services. Those are historical kinds of assumptions, but in later times more  and  more has it been expected of the local authorities that they should go into the fields of health and social welfare services. The document lists such responsibilities as family casework, family counselling, day care centres, home help services, care of the aged, low cost meals or meals on wheels as they are called in some areas, community centres, citizens advice bureaux, clubs for children, young people and the aged, and day camps and other holiday camps as well. All of these aggregate quite considerable sums of money and the document quotes a number of individual instances. The document mentions the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant). 
For the year 1969 in Brunswick - these were figures given in a 1971 submission - out of a total expenditure by the Municipality of Brunswick of $1,420,000, an amount of 8165,000 - that is, close to 12 per cent of the available income of the Municipality of Brunswick - was spent on health and welfare. The document points out that costs are rising yearly. In Brunswick, for example, home help and elderly citizens charges rose from 0.67 per cent of the rate revenue in I960 to 4.32 per cent in 1970. The document also goes on to refer to a council in the electorate of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock).  The Kew City Council pointed out in its 1971 submission that whilst the cost of maintaining those services is subsidised by government, increased costs make the subsidy inadequate. The document reads: 
In Kew. for example, infant welfare centres cost, the council in 1970 $18,276 wilh a government grant of $3,700, i.e. 31 per cent . . . Pre-school kindergartens cost the council in 1970 $34,400 with a government' grant of '$20,900, i.e.  6f  per cent . . . The provision of pre-school facilities for all is a prerequisite lo the development of education in Australia and the need to use manpower to its greatest efficiency. 
The document goes on to describe such matters as meals on wheels, lt then lists a number of matters for which councils are now increasingly being asked to share responsibility, or even to take full responsibility for. The document mentions pollution, and states: 
The control of the pollution of our environment has become a problem that concerns all mankind: and in this local authorities have a pari to play. To prevent pollution requires however adequate finance. 
This is a national problem. The document then lists the other problem that is rather broadly described these days as urban renewal, facing up to the reality that in Australia the majority of our population lives within a 50-mile radius of the capital cities. If we were to take an area of about 50 miles around the centres of Melbourne and Sydney we would encompass something like 40 per cent of the population of Australia - certainly more than half of the population of New South Wales and Victoria. In the Commonwealth Giants Commission report there is a rather interesting table showing the degree of urbanisation in Australia. I think Victoria has 65 per cent of its population in metropolitan areas while New South Wales has something like 58 per cent. This simply highlights the fact that while the majority of people, who are the ultimate responsibilities of government, live in these metropolitan areas, the resources that the councils or (he local authorities have are quite inadequate to meet the new demands that are being thrust upon them. As well, there is the rising burden of the interest rate. A document that I have indicates that, again taking the City of Brunswick as an example, nearly one-fifth of that council's rate revenue goes to service annual interest payments on its debts. The Brunswick City Council in its 1971 submission staled that loan liability had increased from $220,000 in 1950 to $1,436,000 in 1970- more than- 6 times the amount in 1950 - while the rate revenue, which is the source or funds to repay this debt, had increased only 3.8 times and the proportion of rate revenue required' to service the debt has increased - from 12.6 per cent in 1950 to 18.1 per cent in 1970. lt is the belief of my Party - and this view has been expressed persistently and with eloquence by the Leader of the Aus-  tralian Labor Party  (Mr Whitlam)  - that it is time it was acknowledged that (here is a need to make some separate reimbursements to these local authorities. I know that this would not be a very easy process to accomplish because in many ways sometimes the existing arrangements are not always the most satisfactory in handling some of these broader problems. But these, broader problems are being thrust upon the councils, as they are at present constituted, to be dealt with without any additional resources, lt is true that a number of piecemeal arrangements have been made, such as assistance for the mealsonwheels organisations and so on. Rut in the aggregate these arrangements are quite trivial. I do not mean that the functions of these organisations are trivial but the resources which go from the Federal Government to the local authorities are quite trivia! when we have in mind what is expected of them in 1971 and in the years ahead. We all talk about pollution. We talk about delinquency. We talk about the problems of cities. We talk about access roads and all sorts of things. It is pretty difficult to assign the ultimate cost of these things in any precise way to individuals merely because they live in this municipality rather than that municipality. As I said earlier, in many respects the local governing authority has become the poor relation in the system. 
The organisation to which I referred, the Committee for More Federal Finance for Local Government, recently sought an interview with the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  but as he was away the Minister for Repatriation received the deputation in his absence. That deputation presented to the Minister this document from which I have quoted. The people on that Committee are very worthy people who so far have contributed funds out of their own finances to bring to the notice of the Government the kinds of problems which they feel exist and which they think there is no thought of remedying. I commend them for their zeal. But I hope that the Government in assessing the total constitutional pattern in Australia will give consideration to that Committee's representations. There is no doubt that whilst the dominance of finance is here many of the functions that constitutionally have to be performed by governments still remain as part of the province of State and local authorities and to be carried out by them. 
It is the problem of better matching function to finance that has become a critical problem in the State and local sphere. I hope that the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  will draw to the attention of the Government the seriousness of this situation so that it may begin to grapple systematically with the problem. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we, citizens of the Commonwealth, earnestly request our government to: 
increase, immediately, Australia's contribution to the refugee appeal by 10 million dollars. 
press for a just solution to the conflict, so that the refugees may return to their homes. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
There may have been very little but all I am saying to the Minister is: Why have you waited so long to debate this kind of proposition? After all, this is a technical matter in which we are to determine whether we should have .one more member on a board of several and whether we should sever the kinds of matters which the Board determines. We have argued this sort of thing before. The case for single-member boards again is a technical kind of matter. However, we are debating the Bill as though we are arguing the whole question of the tariff, and that is not what we are arguing at all. As 1 have said, this is a sheer mechanical matter. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who spoke before me raised the question of primary industry as against secondary industry. Surely we are past the stage where we argue whether primary industry is more important in aggregate than secondary industry. The point about this argument surely is whether much of primary industry - and the wool industry is a principal example - depends upon internal markets or external markets. I thought that the honourable member for Maranoa was going to speak at some length upon the question of the tariff and how much we are to allow industry inside of this country to compete relatively with industry outside. 
I should have thought that the Minister would have brought forward this Bill several days ago when we had much more time to consider these matters than we have now. It is absurd to be talking at half past one in the morning about a matter that relates to something like a quarter to one-half the gross national product of Australia. In many instances, it is a purely technical kind of matter. To my mind the gravamen of this kind of thing is not how many members there are on the Tariff Board but what resources are available to the Board to do its duty. Surely this depends on having economists and on having people expert- 
Mt  Buchanan - Econometricists 
Econometricists, if you like. Like the honourable member for McMillan, I have great difficulty at this time of night in getting my tongue round that term. Nevertheless, I think it is a significant term. I understand it means merely measuring the economy. 'Oikos' means 'house', 'oikonomia' means literally management of the house' and 'metrikos' means 'concerned with measurement'. Surely this is significant as far as the total economy is concerned. We have got past the stage of being a peasant economy. Our economy is dependent much more on the basic state of industry in the country as a whole. What I think is wrong with the Government at the moment is that it has no sense as to the overall purpose of the economy. ff there is one point at which one determines the purpose of the economy it is surely this question of the tariff. I have often talked on this question of the tariff. People sometimes talk about the tariff as though, as I said earlier, it is a pound of butter. It is not. ff I may simplify the definition, the tariff is a tax that one hopes one will not collect because the purpose of the tariff is to keep out of one's internal economy goods that might otherwise come in without it. The whole purpose of the tariff is the proper allocation of resources. Surely a significant matter in any economy is whether the tariff is operating in such a way that certain goods which could come in cannot come in - and it is silly not to let them in - or whether it is operating to protect what are sometimes described as infant industries' in order to diversify the economy. Australia, of all places, is put in such a position in the world that it has to give more concern to these things than most other places. I see this Bill as being a purely mechanical one. It enlarges by one person the number of people who can sit on the Tariff Board in total and it divides the activities of the Board, but it does not get down to determining in any way why we have a tariff at all and what is the significance of the tariff in the totality of our economy. That is why I think it is rather absurd that a Bill which has been on the notice paper for several months should be brought on for debate at this time of the night when matters of not much significance have been brought on for debate at more opportune times. 1 am sure that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who, if I may say so, has always been a great agitator us far as the principles of the tariff are concerned 
Perhaps the honourable member for Wakefield will explain later what word he would have used. 1 am sure that if the honourable member explained it now there would not be too many who would listen to him. In view of the business that this House has been transacting over recent weeks surely this kind of measure deserved a much more significant place on the notice paper: 
My colleague wants to go to bed. Maybe that is a good suggestion. With respect to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who puts the gag on us whenever he can, a matter that appears on the notice paper is as significant to some honourable members as any other matter. The question of when to bring it on is surely of some significance. This matter has lain around for many months. Why does it have to come on this evening? If the honourable member wishes to gag the debate it is up to him. All I am suggesting is that this does not reach the significance of the problems of the tariffs. Whether we augment the numbers of the board by one member is the least significant part of the problem of how to evaluate the tariff in an economy such as Australia's. I hope that when we come back for the new session in February greater opportunity will be given to this House to debate the significance to the total Australian economy of the tariff. 
And earlier in the night. It camouflages the realities of a serious situation over which even in my own Party there are differences. 
Yes, you do. When we ask which industry and on which aspect we should lower the tariff the Government has the same kinds of problems as we have. We then move into the textile industry and consider shirts, woven goods and so on, and every honourable member on this side asks: 'Which particular aspect and which particular industry?' I hope that, not in the early hours of the morning but in the early days of the next session, we will get down to the fundamentals of this very significant problem. 
The Statement of Expenditure is, of course, one of the supplementary measures to complete last years financial accounts. The item know as the 'Advance to the Treasurer' is included every year in the Estimates because it is recognised that in an undertaking with expenditure of the magnitude of what Government expenditure in Australia now is - I think it is running at close to $9,000m in this Budget - it is not possible to foresee everything with precision at the beginning of a financial year. This item is included, I think, in both the ordinary Estimates and in the capital works estimates. This year - I suppose this is indicative of the process of inflationthe amount is $25m instead of $20m. Nevertheless it is a formal kind of matter and at this stage I do not propose to debate it any further. 
I must say that 1 concur with my friend, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  in his view that we are entitled to take the utmost steps that we wish to take with respect to what appears to be an intent to subvert the provisions of the Act by what might be called legal contrivances. The Casuarina case which the Treasurer mentioned is an instance of what I mean. I take the firm view that most people in the community cannot avoid the legal obligation to pay taxation and that those who try to be clever about the inadequacies of the law deserve to be met with the harshest consequences if it is felt that they are subverting the principle of an Act. 
Early in his speech, the Minister said: 
There will thus be provided a full opportunity for the terms of the Bill to be considered within the Parliament and outside it before the debate takes place. 
No opportunity will be provided within the Parliament to debate this matter until we resume in February. I hope that an opportunity will be given early in the next sessional period, before the Bill comes on for debate, lo discuss some of the principles involved. I must say that I am at one with the Treasurer on this issue. Legal gentlemen try to draw very fine distinctions between the evading of taxation and the avoiding of taxation. They become rather sensitive when one term rather than another is used. Candidly, J find it a bit difficult at times to know what is the difference between 'evading' and 'avoiding'. Legally there are some distinctions. 1 hope that we will be given some kind of opportunity to debate this matter and i hope that those people who are affected by matters of this type will make their representations. 
I suppose that the proposition that I am about to put is implicit in the whole taxation structure. I take as an example the manufacture of boot polish. If a company is unsuccessful in making boot polish - most boot polish manufacturers in Australia have been quite successful; the Kiwi company is a good example, but my remarks refer to any company that is unsuccessful in prosecuting a particular endeavour - and it has capital resources, that company then can go backwards, if you like, from boot polish manufacture to making boots. On the other hand, if a company is successful in manufacturing tobacco should it be able to move forward into the manufacture of, say, lemonade or wine? These are some of the matters that we have to face up to and this leads me to deal now with loss companies. This is a curious device. It involves firms which, if they were individuals, would be declared bankrupt, but which, because of the provisions of the law, may be bought as loss companies, as they are called, and there is a tax value in such companies to the buyer. Candidly, I would like to remove that kind of opportunity. In my view if one has been unsuccessful in one endeavour that may be a tragedy to him. but his business should not be available as a grab for someone else who is successful in another endeavour. I would like to see these matters contemplated in some detail before the House considers them. The Treasurer and I are at one on these issues. Part of this legislation deals with the ability of a private company to become a public company simply to accept the taxation advantage involved. The law should not allow such an opportunity. I was interested the other night to hear the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  ask a question about this matter. I suppose there are some disadvantages as well as advantages in dividend stripping, as it is described. But to most people it is an occult science, lt. has overtones of mystery and so on. The Treasurer on occasions has apparently felt that I was hostile, rather than sympathetic, towards him. On this issue 1 am at one with him and I acknowledge the practical difficulties involved when the law takes a certain view. The law tries to set out a code of behaviour. I have often quoted the view of  Mr Justice  Mansfield of the British courts that an individual is entitled, if he wants to, to drive a coach and horses through the law, but the law is also entitled to block such people. I am on the side of the law in blocking these activities 1 have been speaking about. 
One of the difficulties in our system is that the majority of people who are described as taxpayers have no ability whatever to evade their proper and legal responsibilities. But there is the clever group who, by one means or another, within or without the law, or by means of the interpretation of the law, reduce the tax payable by them and this short fall in revenue has to be made up by those who have no legitimate device by which they can reduce their taxes. I and my Party are with the Treasurer on any legitimate attempt to close these loopholes to those who might be described as the shrewd lawyers in the community; alt praise to their professional ability but no praise to their zeal as far as bending the law is concerned. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The Opposition welcomes the intent of this legislation which at least spells out for the future a code of behaviour as far as what is described as general insurance is concerned. I think that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  described it as a large and important business. I do not think it is always realised that in aggregate the premiums of what are described as general insurance - covering such things as fire, marine, workers compensation and housing insurance - amount to over $ 1,000m annually. The amount of premiums is getting pretty close to the amount which the Government spends annually on defence. 
Government defence expenditure is about $l,200m. It is not half. The Treasurer will have to learn his arithmetic a little bit better than that. This amount is getting close to the magnitude of defence expenditure, but nevertheless up to date it has not been subject to any overall regulation. 1 shall quote section 51 of the Constitution, that great section which delineates the fields in which the Commonwealth may make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth. Placitum (xiv.) states: 
Insurance, other than State insurance; also State insurance extending beyond the limits of the State concerned: 
At least we entered into the field of life assurance and were quite successful in carrying out that responsibility. Many years ago when the Treasurer was in a less distinguished position - I think that he may just have emerged as the Attorney-General - I asked why the Government did not appoint a Commissioner to be responsible for this type of insurance. If he looks back in the Hansard I think he will find that in the early 1960s or the late 1950s I asked why the Government did not appoint in the field of insurance other than life assurance a commissioner similar to the one who operates in the life assurance field, and I think the Treasurer suggested to me in reply that he did not think it was necessary. At least he has now acknowledged this need. I pay tribute also to one of my colleagues, one of the new members, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  who has had some experience in this field. He has raised this kind of matter also. As recently as the last debate on the Treasury Estimates only a few weeks ago I suggested - I appreciate the difficulties in legislating in this field - that we have somebody to examine general insurance; that the Government should appoint a Commissioner who could at least explore the field in advance and indicate the scope of the legislation required. It seems to me that the Treasurer has at least now indicated a code. 
The need for this kind of legislation has been brought home to us recently by the experience of the sort of straw companies that have operated particularly in the field of motor insurance. I think it is a terrible thing in the community when literally anybody with virtually no capital, and not having even to indicate any provision in relation to the policies he writes or in relation to the risk that may be incurred, does not have to spell out any kind of ratio. At least the Treasurer has now indicated that legislative action will be taken in this field and 1 commend him for it. Again I thank him for indicating in advance the nature of the proposed legislation. I think we appreciate the difficulties that are involved in bringing this legislation forward, but I hope it will be introduced early in the next session. When the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes),  who was in the chamber at the beginning of the debate but who is not here now, was AttorneyGeneral I asked him a question at least 12 months ago about whether certain straw companies were using the facilities of registration in Canberra when in fact they were operating in other States. I must say that I was assailed by all sorts of telegrams the day after I raised this matter with the Treasurer's colleague. AH the companies that protested their innocence have since gone broke. At least it was indicative that there was at least a smell in that field. 
Motor insurance is one type of general insurance. In this country something like 500,000 new motor cars are bought each year. Apart from America and Canada we have almost the highest ratio of motor cars to population of any place in the world. So motor insurance is an important field of insurance. Other types are workers' compensation and fire insurance. Premiums for all these types of insurance add up to something like $ 1,000m annually. At least J welcome the proposition that now, belatedly, the Commonwealth is moving into the general insurance field. The Government having acknowledged the need to go into this field I hope that it will move as quickly as is possible, and I would hope that when we come back, discounting for the moment all the talk about an election later next year, we will be able to consider this legislation on insurance with some degree of tranquillity and some degree of detail. I hope that the Treasurer and his advisers will press on in the next 2 or 3 months and have the Bill ready for us when we resume next year. 
I hope that the Treasurer will lay the Bill on the table for a few weeks so that those who are involved can give us the benefit of their expertise. I had to take part in a broadcast today, and someone said: There is a lack of expertise on the Opposition side'. I said: ' "Expertise" is an awful word'. I think there is a place for expertise, but once we start talking about expertise it gets  a  bit tedious. But at least the expert can tell the not-so-well advised in a field what he thinks should be done, but ultimately it is up to the Ministers to determine the code of operation. At least the Treasurer tonight has spelt out a code in some detail, and I thank him for it. My only regret is that the Commonwealth did not decide to enter into this field much earlier. I am directing my remarks not so much to the Treasurer as to his predecessors. 
I  hope that when we come back here in February ari*d early March this will be one of the first Bills placed before us and that we will have time to look at it in detail and have a proper committee debate on it. Committee debates where we can get down to details are lacking in this House. I would hope that the Treasurer will not think that the only expertise or the only expert information available is on the Government side and that he will give kindly consideration to sympathetic amendments moved from the Opposition side in this field. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
If anyone had doubts about the integrated nature of an industrial society, those doubts would have been removed after the electric power hold-up in Victoria. It began in an atmosphere of bad industrial relations between the State, as the public employer, and its employees. After a week, it threatened to spill over into other States and to bring all industrial activity in Victoria to a standstill. On the other hand, if anything demonstrated a lack of integrated economic policy in Australia, it was the events of last week. The Commonwealth Government portentously meets with the Premiers of all the States to announce to them steps it could and should have taken months before and to brag about sums of money of the magnitude of $50m to $100m being injected into the economy. The next day, one gigantic firm announced a decision made behind closed doors which would take at least $30m out of the economy in the form of higher prices. It was a confrontation of political impotence and naked economic power. It contrasted the iniquitous ease with which prices can be raised with the rigours that apply to the fixing of wages. 
One of the measures announced by the Government - the restoration of the investment allowance - was a golden handshake to the owners of industry. It contrasted with the Government shaking an iron fist at the wage earners in the same industries. Yet, we hear talk of integrity. Was there not a threat to the integrity of the socalled independent wage fixing tribunals in this country by the suggestion from the Government that they ought to be cautious in awarding increases? To hold wages down and to allow prices to rise is social injustice. While that injustice continues, the tempo of the economy will decline - I want to explain that in a moment - and it will continue to do so until we do something along the lines that the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, as far back as 1959, suggested was needed in Australia. It suggested that there should be an integrated economic policy. I have not time to quote all the recommendations of this all party Committee which are contained in paragraphs 979 to 982. However, it stated: 
The Committee considered that the Commonwealth now had to discharge a responsibility of government which did no; exist when the Constitution was originally framed, namely, to safeguard and promote the economic welfare of the community of Australia. 
That is what is in jeopardy at the moment. What has been shown is that Government policy, taken for supposedly good reasons, can be negated by unchecked acts by what is called private enterprise industry. This is only another example of the negation of what is pursued as Government policy. 
I refer io the observations in the latest report of the Reserve Bank of Australia. They show that the monetary policy which rightly or wrongly this Government is trying to implement in Australia is frustrated because of the flow into this country of capital from overseas. Much has been said about the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. The case of BHP is only an example of the difficulties with which we contend. Last year, while company profits for most groups declined in aggregate, one group - financial companies - actually increased their profits by about 20 per cent. I am becoming a little tired of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  saying that because wages rise 1 1 per cent and prices only 8 per cent it is wages only that have to be looked at. Let us take the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd as an example. Its annual report - a curious document - gives everything except its turnover. However, it shows that the company paid $253,070,000 in salaries and wages. Another item which is as significant is the item 'profit before fixed asset utilisation and income tax $248,490,000'. That part of the company's operation is just as significant in the total price structure as are wages. It is an element that can be looked after. I estimate - it is time the Treasury obtained some accurate figures on this - that if prices rose by 8 per cent, approximately 3 per cent of that increase would be due to wages and salaries. A further 3 per cent of the increase would be due to the profit item components, including provision for capital plough back and the other 2 to 3 per cent of the increase would be due to Government taxation policy. The Government should at least look at all these elements and not simply blame the wage earner. 
The great dilemma in which the Government finds itself in this industrialised society to which 1 have referred is that not only is the wage earner the greatest single cost, but ako he is the greatest single source of consumer expenditure. If Government members studied the figures properly they would find that last year the increase in total employment in Australia was 92,000. Twelve months before that, the increase in total employment was 170,000. That is the genesis of the unemployment position at the moment. It is the rundown in the tempo of the economy. Who are the victims of this rundown at the moment in yet another piece of Government policy which is being negated? The greatest single group of unemployed workers at the moment are adult males in the group described as semi-skilled and unskilled manual workers. The greater part of this group comprises adult males who were brought to Australia from other parts of the world. 
Last Saturday 1 attended one ot the most tragic meetings I have ever attended. It was a meeting of unemployed migrant workers in St Kilda - just one municipality. About 50 people attended the meeting. There were people from Mauritius, India, Egypt and even one person from Chile. Full employment and immigration go together. Migration is part of the full employment programme. It is criminal to bring people into Australia from overseas when there is unemployment among those already here. I believe - the Australian Labor Party supports this view - that our problem in Australia should not be one of people seeking jobs. The problem ought to be that more jobs are available than there are people to fill them. Some people do not like that because it becomes too difficult to regulate the economy. But it is time that some attention was paid to the economy as a whole and not just to bash unions because they seek wage increases. Wages must continue to rise while prices rise, not only in order to use the goods and services at the higher prices but also to give the workers a share of the productivity which everybody talks about and which cannot come about without cooperation. There must be trustful cooperation between the employers and the employees, with the Government keeping the ring and not taking the side of the employer against the employee. It must not give the golden handshake to the boss and hit the worker in the face with the iron fist. That is not a solution for a humanitarian democratic society in 1972. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa - Leader of the Opposition) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have been misrepresented and this might be a convenient time for me to correct the misrepresentation. 
Is it not true the Government knew beforehand about this? 
Oh, yes, the Government knew. We told the government. 
How long ago? 
Well, they have known for some weeks that we intended to increase prices. So have our customers and it has been speculated in the newspapers for same weeks. I don't think you can say that anyone is surprised . . . Our approach was to advise the government of our intention. This (the decision) is regarded by us and by the government as a normal commercial decision. 

 Mr McMahon has made no representations to BHP to defer the rises or stop them? 
No. 
Did the. government know prior to your announcement the exact timing as to when you would be making that announcement? 
They knew shortly before, yes. Q. Was it yesterday or say a couple of days ago or how long? 
Don't try and pin me down on this. It was a couple of days before the actual announcement was made. The actual announcement was made at five o'clock yesterday (Feb. 15). They knew on Monday of the timing. 
Secondly, I was misrepresented by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  who is the Minister for Trade and Industry. My authority for this is an article which appeared, I think, on the front page of the Sydney Morning Herald' of 18th February. I shall quote the introduction, and the words of the Minister for Trade and Industry which are in quotation marks. The article stated: 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  came to the defence of BHP yesterday in the national controversy over the 5.3 per cent rise in steel prices. 
The Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  through a spokesman has deplored the rise, particularly the timing of it. 
But  Mr Anthony  said in a speech in Maitland yesterday: 
The iron and steel sections of BHP are in real trouble  profitwise  "They have no alternative but to pass the costs on, as other industries do and as State and local Governments have done. 
It is wrong to attack BHP for their actions when they have had a good record in war and peace, and have sold most of their steel at prices below those of other steel-producing countries.' 
I can understand the difficulties they have had in absorbing enormous wage increases over the past 12 months,' he said. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Treasurer- Bruce) - May I have the indulgence of the House for a moment. I apologise that I was not here at the outset of the remarks that were made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Therefore I did not hear the early part of what he had to say. I will look at the Hansard report of the part which I did not hear. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
What is the total area in Australia, onshore and off-shore, under petroleum titles in each of the descriptions of (a) authorising, (b) prospecting and (c) production. 
What areas in each description are held by (a) Australian companies and (b) non-Australian companies. 
What percentage of fields actually in production are held by Australian companies, e.g. Bass Strait, Moonie, Barrow, Moomba and Gidgealpa. 
What is the actual Australian equity in these producing fields. 
What is the extent of Australian equity in fields where commercial reserves have been discovered but are not in production at the present time. 
I should like to quote from the last part of the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  I shall quote words which did not seem to raise much cheer on the Government side of the House when they were uttered. The Treasurer said:   . . I have reiterated our firm commitment to achieving a steady rate of economic growth while at the same time maintaining a high level of employment. Equally firm, however, is our commitment to tackle the problem of inflation. 
Earlier he observed that he believed that the Australian economy was dynamic, flexible and continually moving. I suggest that if regard is had to some of the recent statistics published in this country the only steady thing about the rate of the economic growth is that it has almost stopped. This is most evident in the preliminary quarterly statements on national income issued on 23rd February 1972 by the Commonwealth Statistician. They contain figures expressed both at current prices and at average 1966-67 prices. The purpose of the latter figures is to keep them at constant prices and to take the question of inflation out of the effect of the figuring. If these seasonal figures are noted it will be seen that there is scarcely any growth whatever in the Australian economy. 
I want to say one or two things about economic growth. It is easy to bamboozle people with figures if you imply that they are related to a firm base when in essence they deal with a shifting set of circumstances. After all, what is the perspective of the injection pf $122m into the economy? That sum will be injected into it over a period of time as a result of the changes made in the Budget since August 1971. If there has been a change of that magnitude there must have been something wrong with the figuring in the first place, or in the strategy of it, which is the more common description these days. 
The Treasurer said that there will be an increase of $122m this financial year as a result of measures undertaken not only last week but some months ago. What will that increase mean in relation to the total expected Budget expenditure, as at the time of the Budget speech in August 1971, of near enough to $9,000m? That figure of $122m represents about one and one-third per cent of the estimated expenditure of the Budget but from the time the Budget was introduced in August 1971 up to the present time, some 6 months later, there already has been an increase in prices of over 4 per cent. So at least in real terms Government expenditure actually will be less than was estimated at the time the Budget was propounded. These are some of the things that the Government is not looking into. The Treasurer made a rather curious observation in his speech. He said: 
As consumer prices have accelerated markedly over the period, the rate of growth of personal consumption expenditure in real' terms has slowed. 
At least he acknowledged that people are spending more. But they are paying more for the same goods and therefore in real terms there has been a real decline. The figures for the December quarter bear that out. They show that personal consumption for the December quarter of 1971-72 was $4, 141m as against $4, 178m in the previous quarter. This is the first time that I have been able to find an example of where there has been a decline in personal consumption between the September and December quarters. After all, the December quarter includes what is supposed to be the Christmas rush. In real terms consumer expenditure declined and he has observed that.  His  next statement is the thing that I think needs spelling out and thinking out so far as honourable members on the Government side of the House are concerned. He continued and said: 
Perhaps one corollary of that could be that if we could enjoy a greater measure of success in arresting the rate of rise of costs and hence prices, the rate of growth of real consumption might increase somewhat faster than it has of late. 
I submit - and we said this only 2 days ago - that insofar as consideration is given only to wages as the generator of inflation in this community, this economic decline will continue. I think we of the Opposition expressed it in this way: While wages may be the greatest single element of costs in any community they are also the greatest single source of consumer spending. This is the kind of adjudication that sensible government has to do. There has to be equity between wages on the one hand and prices on the other. 
The Treasurer talked in the course of his speech about something that is so glibly referred to as 'productivity'. I simply ask quite categorically. Can you give us any examples in recent times of prices that have fallen? Unless wages increase they will not purchase the same real goods as they did previously, let alone give to the wage earner any share of what is described as productivity. I think that is axiomatic. But all that the Treasurer does, in the name of the Government, is to reiterate over and over: "We believe in hal' Lng inflation and we think that the greatest source, if not the only source, of inflation is wages.' We on the Opposition side deny that. Wages are significant but if prices did not rise wages would not need to be increased as much as they do. Nobody can say that if wages did not increase prices would not increase. Surely this is the nub of the situation. 
I was intrigued by the Treasurer's prescriptions for inflation. Lest honourable members did not notice them very carefully 1 will read them again. He said: 
The Government has. of course, implemented, a wide range of policies to that end. 
He means to the end of halting inflation. He lists those policies and the 'first in his list is this:   . . we are doing what we can, as a Government, to oppose excessive wage claims wherever the opportunity arises. 
The opportunity arises every time there is a case before the court in which the Commonwealth Government can intervene. It does intervene and the Treasurer says that the Government will continue to do so m the national wage case that is now before the court. That is the first policy to hak inflation. The second' policy was revealed when he stated: 
We have also been seeking, as a matter of some urgency, to find ways of strengthening, competition within the economy, to .ensure, that pricing decisions are made in a more competitive atmosphere. 
I hesitate to mention again in this House the matter of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd about which we have heard so much in the last week or so. There is no competition against its production and it made a blatant decision to increase prices. The Government did nothing about that matter except to hold its hands up in horror and make clucking noises after the event, lt knew that the increase was going to occur. Yet the Treasurer said: 'We will ensure that pricing decisions are made in a more competitive atmosphere'. I say that that is sheer humbug. Nobody believes it any more. How can people believe it after the Premiers' meeting held here recently ' at which the Commonwealth doled out to them money that could have been spent before. Some of the money was required merely to make up a budget deficit in New 
South Wales. Approximately $30m is being taken out of the economy by a decision made by only one firm. That is only the first impact of the decision. The Treasurer went on to say that one major step is the broad review of the tariff which is under way. What is the broad review of the tariff which is under way and when will it have any impact in halting inflation? 
I think it was a surprise to many people that it was under way at all. 1 think that everybody thought it was out of sight like many other things. The Treasurer said:   . . and we expect to bring forward in the current parliamentary session some effective legislation in the area of restrictive trade practices. 
I ask him to give us some of the details of it. At the moment, there is very little abatement in the rising level of prices. Again, we hear this spurious quoting of statistics. What does not seem to be realised about the Australian economy is that it has been declining not only during the last 6 months but also since the time of 2 Budgets ago. That was the genesis of the economic decline, the time when my friend was relegated to the back benches. 
I wish to cite some figures in relation to housing. I am indebted to my colleague, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  for supplying them. For the 12 months ended December 1969, housing commencements numbered 75,144. In the 12 months ended December 1970, the figure was 68,915, which represents a decline of 7,000 homes. To the end of 1971, this figure built up again to 71,620. A good result is obtained if the recent rise is compared with the lowest declension. But if we return to the point to which we ought to return, which is December 1969 instead of December 1971, the figures are still below the levels of 1969. Were there fewer people in Australia to be housed in the 12 months ended December 1971 than there were in the 12 months ended December 1969? The figures repeat themselves if we take the 2 major States, Victoria and New South Wales. In Victoria in December 1969, housing commencements numbered 20,132. In December 1970 they were 18,281 and in December 1971, 18,145. That last figure is still below the level of the previous 12 months and approximately 10 per cent below the level of 2 years ago. The position is similar in New South Wales. At December 1969 housing commencements numbered 26,472. In December 1970, they numbered 23,552 and in December 1971, 23,987. There was a slight increase from 1970 to 1971 but they were still approximately 9 per cent below the 1969 level. 
If this economy of ours, to use the words of the Treasurer, is dynamic, flexible and continually moving, this has to be demonstrated in terms of the context of the realities in Australia. The population has increased by approximately 250,000 persons per annum. In past years, about half of that increase has been due to migration and the other half of it due to what is described as natural increase, the excess of births over deaths. The gross national product of Australia, even if prices remain the same, would need to increase by about 2 per cent per annum as a minimum to keep the standards per capita as they were before. In addition to that, if at least some part of increased productivity is to be bestowed upon us in this affluent age, the gross national product has to rise- by more than 2 per cent. What are we getting at the moment? We are supposed to be gratified that by June 1972, this year, there will be an increase in the gross national product of 4 per cent, which will be the lowest increase for a considerable number of years, except last year. Last year there was a decline of 1 per cent to  H  per cent in the normal percentage increase of the gross national product. 
I can cite some accurate figures in relation to this matter. In 1966-67 the gross national product increased by 6.5 per cent. In 1967-68 it increased by 3.9 per cent, in 1968-69 by 8.3 per cent, in 1969-70 by 5.6 per cent and in 1970-71 - last year - by 3.9 per cent. Apparently, we are all to be gratified that it will increase by 4 per cent this year. Suppose the increase had remained the same as in the year 1969-70, at 5.6 per cent instead of 4 per cent. What would that mean? Let us look at what it means in terms of the production of additional physical goods. At today's prices 1 per cent of the gross national product represents about $330m to $340m. So the additional 1.6 per cent would represent an increase in the goods and services being produced in Australia of approximately $500m. That is the extent of the decline in economic activity this year over last year. If we go back 2 years this would represent a figure of the magnitude of $ 1,000m. Yet we are told that the Government has now made a review of this dynamic, flexible and continually moving economy. Nowhere do the figures bear this out. 
I ask honourable members to look at the figures for what should be the principal generator in what is still described as a private enterprise economy. One of the poorest performers is the gross fixed capital expenditure in the private field. 1 ask honourable members to look at it as expressed in 1966-67 terms. It has been constant for Iti months. Now we are told that the economy will be lifted by the restoration of the investment allowance. The Government asks: Why should anybody be alarmed about the future? What the Treasurer will not acknowledge is that private enterprise in Australia will not be activated until real consumer expenditure begins to expand. That is being overlooked here. That is why my colleague, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  suggested the other day that the economy can be stimulated quickest by putting purchasing power into the hands of the people who can spend the money. There are still many people in the Australian community who do not receive enough. 
The other kind of indicator as to how the economy is running down is the figures, not for unemployment but for total employment in Australia. I reiterate that, to absorb into creative employment in Australia the young people Who leave school every year, we are expected to find approximately 200,000 new jobs minus 30,000 to 40,000 vacancies caused by deaths and retirements. That means that 160,000 to 170,000 new jobs have to be found every year. That had  been the record of the Australian economy 2 years ago and up until last year. I will quote the figures we have for a complete year, from November 1970 to November 1971. I think I cited these figures the other evening. The increase in total employment, in Australia last year was 92,500,- whereas 12 months previously, from November 1969 to November 1970, the figure had been 171,000. That is the source of increased unemployment at the moment. The only sort of acknowledgement that the Treasurer seems to make is that he recognises there is a little more unemployment in the country than he would like to see. What he is not acknowledging is that the major part of the unemployment in Australia today is among adult males, many of them married. This is happening in a community that calls itself a Christian community which is supposed to believe in the blessings of family life and so on. lt is serious when adult males who have families to support arc o st of work. The greatest number of those who are out of employment are in the categories that are defined as unskilled and semi-skilled. Reading between the lines of the Treasurer's statement, he seems to suggest that somehow there has been something good about this increase in unemployment. It has reduced labour turnover; it has made people more disposed to stay when formerly they would have wanted to move. I do not know whether that is the doctrine. Candidly. I am not one who believes that unemployment is deliberately created but I think unemployment is being created in Australia out of economic mismanagement. Until one removes that economic mismanagement and looks at what the seeds of it are it is going to increase. 
Now to return to these adult males who are out of work. About 45,000 of them, or one-third of the total unemployed, are in the 2 categories of semi-skilled and unskilled manual; I think that is what the statistics call them. They are not only old Australians but also new Australians. At the moment the Government is killing the hopes of people who come to this country expecting it to be a place where there is economic opportunity and security for children. I was astounded at the kind of stuff we listened 'o here the other night during the debate on the increased unemployment benefit. A suggestion was made that if one increased the payment of unemployment benefit from $10 to SI7 this is s'ill better than the SI 2 paid in France or the something else which is payable somewhere else, ls that the way to look at the position? 
Last Saturday I attended a meeting in my electorate - I described this the  other evening - mainly of unemployed migrant workers. Some of them are married with children. I ask honourable members opposite how they would like to live on §30 a week, or thereabouts, out of which they  would be paying anything from $15 to S25 in rent for something which is euphemistically called a fla but which is often 2 rack-rented rooms let by some unscrupulous landlord. Plenty of that is going on. To suggest that there is in Australia a surplus of houses of a decent standard is  absurd. We are going to have social problems of considerable magnitude in this country in the months ahead. 1 think the Treasurer twitted my leader because he talked about another 50,000 unemployed. 1 shall quote what he said: 
False pride and failed policies threaten at least another 50,000 Australian jobs. 
What he meant - if it were not clear enough - is that if action is not taken this situation is going to get worse. Any action taken by the Government last week and in the days before will not do much to absorb into employment the unskilled and semi-skilled males in Australia. If unemployment even maintains itself - I cannot see that it is going to decline below the level of 100,000 for the rest of this calendar year - a preponderant number will be these unfortunate people who have no-one  and nothing else to fail back upon. Are they going to live through a summer, an autumn and a winter to a Christmas on - sums of the magnitude of $35. Will anybody on the other side of the House say that 4 people living together in a "family unit in Australia can do so decently on less than $50 a week? Yet that is the magnitude of the Government's approach. We believe that the unemployment benefit ought to be treated as what it is - a benefit, and not just a dole. Surely honourable members cannot say (hat these people are out of work and it is their own fault. Least of all can they say that about any junior who is out of employment. He has left school in the hope and belief that constructive employment was ready for him. 
Maybe those are the short term difficulties but the long term problems of this economy are serious and they are not being looked at by this Government. It looks for something to turn up. Tonight the Treasurer said that he could find 24 out of 33 selected statistics which suited his argument. I suggest that he have a look at the structure of unemployment and at the quarterly figures adjusted for current prices. Then can be say that he believes we have a dynamic, flexible, continually moving economy? We do not have any such thing. We will not have it until we begin to have some sense of social priority in this country. We have said - and I reiterate - that people in the country know there is a desperate shortage of certain amenities. We in the cities know there is a shortage of all kinds of things - cultural, physical and so on. In Australia what we should have all the time are more jobs available than people to fill them. If we do not have that it is because we are not properly managing the economy. Honourable members can argue if they like that there are too many people in this kind of industry as against too many people in that kind and that if there is a shortage of manpower then there ought to be some sensible priority for getting one lot of people from one industry to another. But, for instance, can anybody say that the people who were discharged from General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd a few weeks ago were discharged because of the theory that , people should be spilled out of that industry into some other industry? Those people were laid off because, as I read earlier from the Treasurer's statement, there had been a decline in the real consumer spending and people who previously would have bought a car were either holding off or not buying at all. In that sort of context it would have been more sensible to lower the price of the car. The Government could have done this by lowering the amount of sales tax which it imposed. 
But what is more pathetic than the defences in this speech about finding employment in rural areas and the old devices of sweeping up leaves or filling potholes instead of doing something which is socially constructive? I suppose it is belter to do that than to do nothing but, that is not what a purposeful social policy ought to be in the 1970s. I shall conclude on this note because I think this is central to the theme that it is time the Government got off the stool that the only thing wrong with the economy is greedy wage earners seeking higher wages. There is talk about what is being described as an incomes policy. There are a lot of arguments for and against this. Candidly, I am against it. I must say that if it were to be introduced 3 conditions would be essential to its introduction. There must be agreement between government, employers and employees upon the detail of the scheme. It is not a scheme which can be forced down from the top to the bottom. The very fact that the Government goes into the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to resist wage increases is not much of an indication of a bona fide desire to develop trust or co-operation between the productive elements in the economy, lt is about time there was a more civilised attitude to this problem. I commend to those who are concerned about this scheme the short notes which were issued on one of the library lists the other day. This is an account of an outline of an address given by the Right Honourable Aubrey Jones to the Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand, Canberra branch. He indicates that what we have to try to build is a better relationship between employer and employee. I would suggest that a tightening of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and intervening in the court against wage increases that are inevitable, as long as. one does nothing to regulate the price of goods and services, will not build good industrial relationships instead it will bring about a good deal of discontent in the future. 
 I do not know why the Treasurer made his statement this evening because nothing has been added that one did not know. There is no change in the attitude of the Government which still thinks that the problems of the economy will solve themselves. Unless there is more active participation and consideration of what - are the roots of our present discontent, the situation unfortunately will not get better; it will stagnate and get worse. The victims will be the unskilled and the semi-skilled in our country, as well as those who have been brought to its shores. 1 submit that immigration ought to be stopped until unemployment has dropped below the current level. I think it is criminal to bring people to Australia while . unemployment exists. Among those who were sacked by General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd the other day were a large number of Egyptians. The Australian motor car industry could not have been built to its present strength without migrant workers. Surely there is some social obligation upon a company of this type which has taken millions of dol lars annually out of the hides of Australian users of cars, to do something humanitarian about its employees. But these companies make a bad situation worse by simply saying that because no cars are being made this week or next week as a result of a temporary slump in the economy, the services of its employees will be dispensed with without waiting until the slump eases. I do not know either whether that large firm, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, has exercised much more social responsibility this week. Unless those who wield large blocks of economic power in this country display a degree of social responsibility, trade unions will continue to do the only thing they know - to organise collectively to maintain and to improve their conditions of employment. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fox)  adjourned. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill in its present form should be withdrawn because it is unselective in its application and gives no consideration to balanced economic development. 
I think it is significant that this debate should follow the one that has just been adjourned. This is an example of how bullheaded the Government has been in facing up to the problems that beset the economy. 1 would like to quote some words that I uttered almost 10 years ago when this legislation was first before the House. I want to explain in a few minutes what the investment allowance is. I described it as 'a specialised subsidy which will be paid under the subterfuge that it is an income tax deduction'. Let me make that point quite clear at the beginning, lt is necessary to do so, otherwise one may be accused of being against something that is going to be of considerable benefit. 
In essence the investment allowance is a gimmick, a fiction, which suggests that something that costs $1,000 - one can use any unit - shall be presumed not to have cost $1,000 but 20 per cent more. In other words, any plant that one buys that costs $1,000 is presumed to have cost $1,200. In the year in which the plant is installed the difference, the fictional amount - there is no logic about it - is allowed io be written off for taxable income. I make this point iri the first instance simply to show the blatant, illogical nature of this kind of thing. The restoration of the investment allowance is, in my view, simply a triumph on the part of the public relations sections of the chambers of manufactures in Australia. It indicates the weight which this Government places upon representations made from business in defence of capital, compared with its attitude to the people who are employed in industry. 
I say this categorically, and I think these are the sorts of things we have to face up to: Restoring the investment allowance means providing a benefit of something like $S0m to $60m annually to those industries which happen to install any plant after the date of the commencement of operation of this measure, which, I think, is 7th February 1972. What has been suggested is that this will be a stimulus to industry. I suggest that it is being achieved at the moment as a result of the belly-aching on the part of manufacturing industry, which is not at the moment utilising all the plant at its disposal. If anybody wants a good example of that, there is no better example than the motor car indus try, in which there is unutilised plant while the industry is claiming the restoration of this allowance as a triumph and as an incentive that will enable it to install new plant. That is the first kind of attitude one needs to take to this problem. 
The other point made in the amendment is that the Bill is undiscriminating in its application. Whether new plant is installed in the declining motor car industry or in the growing brewing industry, both of them are entitled to claim the investment allowance. It is time that this country produced not only an economic policy but also something that might be called an industrial policy. What is the social purpose of industry in the years ahead? This debate has been going on in this Parliament for the last several sitting days. I still make the statement that, if the economy of Australia were being properly managed, our problem would be a surplus of jobs in relation to the people available to fill them. In some people's minds there is an ominous feeling that, if 2 people are seeking every job, it is a good discipline for workers in industry. I regard that as a very dismal attitude as far as human beings are concerned. If one looks at the potential of this country one finds that the problem ought to be the other way round. I want to use one or two examples to show what I think is a lack of vision on the part of the Government. My Party resisted the investment allowance when it was introduced. We supported its removal. We are consistent now in suggesting that the Govern* ment, in reintroducing the investment allowance, is not doing so on any selective basis or in relation to a proper plan of balanced economic development. 
This morning I happened to come across a paragraph in the 'Australian Financial Review' which dealt with the graduates of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology. We hear a lot of talk in this place about productivity. In the long run productivity depends on better management, more machines and better trained operatives to utilise the machines and the management potential. In my view, the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology is a magnificent institution that has existed in a rather difficult environment. Unless one lived in the city of Melbourne one would hardly realise what the difficulties were. At least the Institute suggested that the people it turned out would not be granted diplomas unless they were first able to get some practical field work. This year it has found that the field work is not available. Some of the areas in which the work is not available are mining and geological surveying. That simply highlights to me the inadequacy of our approach to what might be called an industrial policy. Surely the future of this country depends upon switching over from products like wool, wheat and sugar into the direction of minerals, oil and natural gas. Yet there are not enough jobs available even to give temporary work between the times when diplomas are awarded to graduates of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology. 
On page 2 of the January-February 1972 issue of the Australian Industries Development Association bulletin there is an article titled 'Wage Push Inflation and the Skilled Tradesmen Shortage'. One of the incredible things that has happened in the last several months, at a time when this Government in conjunction with the States has been devoting more money than ever - it must devote even more yet - to higher education through universities, technical institutions and colleges of advanced education, has been a lesser demand for apprentices than previously. That is the burden, if you like, of this article. I will quote one paragraph: 
The claim of the tradesman for higher differential may well be valid, but it should be settled on fis merits and not depend on a shortage for much of its force. A shortage of skilled tradesmen is a severe hamper to the growth of efficient, competitive manufacturing industry. 
The article continues: 
The drop in the numbers of skilled tradesmen migrating to Australia is largely due to the increased competition for skilled migrants abroad. 
Another reference states: 
On the whole, there will continue to be a shortage of skilled labour and as things stand at present the problem will be accentuated as demand increases faster than supply. Given the reduced opportunities for new apprentices, coupled with the four or more years required to train a skilled craftsman and the questionable outlook for increases in migrant intake of tradesmen, the prospects for a significant expansion in the supply of skilled labour are not good.  1 submit that the Government is wrong if it thinks that industry needs to be subsidised. I repeat that that is what the investment allowance is. I suggest that there are one or two other areas that the 
Government could look at first if subsidies were to be regarded as the order of the day. One area would be as was suggested in the article, which reads: 
Given the above situation- 
The above situation is clear enough -  there is ample argument for action to increase the supply of skilled labour to meet expected levels for future demand. One positive step would be a national survey to forecast needs over at least the next five years. This was one of the conclusions reached by the National Conference on Training for Industry and Commerce which met in Canberra last May. The Conference also noted the desirability of incentive payments encouraging employers to take on greater numbers of apprentices. Finally, it was recognised that if better training facilities were to be provided in technical colleges in the way of staffing, buildings, equipment and hostels, it would be necessary for increased finance to be made available to Departments of Education for that purpose.  1 submit that this proposition means an indiscriminate handing out of $50m to what is described as manufacturing industry al a time when plant capacity is not being fully utilised. That advantage is available technically to those who are lucky enough to be putting in new plan after 7th February 1972. Is that an example of properly facing up to the problems in the Austraiian economy? Is there any sense of priority? 1 would suggest this as one proposition: Why not make the investment allowance available only if it were for plant manufactured in Australia? Why not make it available only to those industries in Australia that are substantially Australian-owned? We have heard a lot of talk today from honourable members on the other side of the House about the misapplication of tariffs. This investment allowance has the effect of increased protection for anybody who takes advantage of it. Again, it seems to me that there has not been much thought given to its implications. Perhaps in 1962 when the wretched thing was introduced there was some logic in it. But there is none in 1972. After all, the allowance was reduced in 1971. supposedly to counter inflation. That was at a time when inflation was not running even at the same rate as it is now. What is the logic of its reintroduction in 1972 if there are any virtues in removing it in 1971. 
I recently received a letter from Moore Road Machines (Aus) Pty Ltd, a firm in my area. Malcolm Moore Industries is one of its subsidiaries. It belongs to an organisation known as Construction Equipment Manufacturers of Australia. On 10th December 1971 that organisation wrote to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  I want to quote one or two relevant passages from the letter. Firstly, it is suggested that the normal total sales of construction equipment in Australia, including servicing, are approximately $2 10m per annum. The local content of this is approximately Si 05m. So it is about a 50-50 basis as between locally manufactured equipment and imported equipment. It is therefore a very substantial industry which employs nearly 9,000 people. This is the pregnant passage of the letter. It states: 
The current position, as vouched for by our members, is that the industry turnover has fallen by 30 to 40 per cent compared to recent years. This decline, starting in February last- 
That is, February 1971, a year ago -  has been continuing ever since. 
It certainly has not declined in recent months. The letter continues: 
Although a temporary fall-off in orders can be caused by simple delays in purchasing whilst potential customers make do with old equipment, it is our belief that the situation has now developed where, in fact, the 'dirt being moved' in Australia has actually lessened by 30 to 40 per cent, which must have a very important impact on the future productivity of this country. 
In other words, what is suggested is that the capacity that is already there is not being utilised for such works as building roads and dams which do not come within the scope of the investment allowance. The firm that is in decline is not in a position to install more plant because it is not utilising what is already there. I deplore the fact that at times the Government uses those kinds of words and the sort of piffling defence that was given this afternoon in the name of the Government against the attack which I launched the other evening on the economic statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  It is not the job of the Opposition to say what it will do. Our job at this point is to show the deficiencies in what the Government is doing and to indicate why there is a need for a change of government. Does anybody believe, to use that phrase of the Treasurer, that we have a growing, dynamic and flexible economy at the moment? That is sheer rubbish and humbug. I will quote what this association of serious businessmen states: 
The meeting of our members revealed: In our factories and servicing facilities, overtime has been drastically reduced and is now virtually nonexistent. 
Does that sound like a section of industry that has to be stimulated by the reintroduction of the investment allowance? The second point reads: 
Prominent members of our industry have carried out substantial retrenchments of personnel and further retrenchments are contemplated. 
Does that sound like waiting for the investment allowance to be introduced? The third point reads: 
In all cases the amount of work being let out on a sub-contracting basis has been greatly diminished. 
The fourth point - and this is a tragedy at a time when we are devoting additional resources to education - reads: 
The .number of apprentices hired has been substantially cut, in many cases by 50 p:r cent. 
Will there be a greater increase in productivity in Australia as a result of reintroducing the investment allowance rather than taking on more skilled tradesmen into industries that are in decline even if the same amounts of money are used to achieve the same kind of end? The fifth point reads: 
No member has any, existing plans for the expansion of manufacturing capacity and any plans that did exist have been completely shelved. 
The final point reads: 
The retrenchments in personnel have not only been in areas of normal replacement such as skilled artisans, but also in areas of lengthy technical training such as draftsmen, engineers, where the time taken in training extends over many years. 
I suggest again that honourable members read carefully the statistics that are published monthly in what is called the Monthly Employment Survey. It is a tragedy that whereas in the past the preponderant part has been semi-skilled and unskilled manual, it is now flowing over into skilled as well and particularly in fields like earth moving equipment, electrical and so on. The association also stated: 
The erosion of key personnel, the cancelling of research programmes and other similar events will have a permanent effect on our industry and the depth of the effect will be directly re'.--'* i" '!v -ne taken for corrective  action  by the Government. 
What is the corrective action? It is restoration of the investment allowance - the giving of ounce, if you like - to certain people in industry who will put manufacturing plant into operation from now on. I think we ought to look at the statistics that are available in the 49th report of the Commissioner of Taxation. When the investment allowance was in force, for companies it amounted to $86m for the year ended June 1969. These are the last available figures. With company tax at about 45 per cent the cost was about $40m. There was another $23m in respect of individual persons. Of that $86m there was $45m for companies which had a profit in excess of $2m a year. Where is the selectivity in this kind of situation? 
I said in this House the other evening that I could see some logic in reducing employment in the motor car industry if you had some sort of formula whereby if there is excessive investment in the motor car industry people are put somewhere else. But about half of the people who are out of work in the motor industry are people who have been brought out here as part of a planned programme of migration and they are not going to be absorbed anywhere else. Surely this is the sort of place that the Government ought to be looking at when it comes to a restoration of this investment allowance. This is why we have moved an amendment. Of course, industry throws up its hand in glee when this allowance is restored just as the individual taxpayers would if their taxes were reduced, but what is the logic? What is the equity of giving $50m indiscriminately to those who happen to be putting in new plant after 7th February as against some other sort of concessions that might be made? 1 suggest that if the Government were going to subsidise industry there were several ways in which it could have done this. It could have given a subsidy to particular industries for particular purposes. It could have given a subsidy to industries that would say: 'We are going to take on more apprentices in future'. It could have given a subsidy to those country industries which say: 'We will employ people in the country rather than in the metropolitan area'. I think the thing that has to be looked at - and this is spelt out in the Australian 
Industries Development Association bulletin - is that we are living in a period of technological change, and one of the tragedies is that we are still training people to do jobs that are not wanted and we are not training people to do jobs that the technological revolution demands. Those figures are starkly portrayed in the monthly bulletins which are available. 
In a previous debate I mentioned the curious phenomena that in terms of aggregates in the metropolitan areas of New South Wales and Victoria - that is, Sydney and Melbourne basically - there are more jobs available for females than there are females to fill them yet about 2,500 of those females are on the dole in those 2 States. This throws serious doubt on the categorisation between jobs and jobless. It is the great tragedy in Australia at the moment that instead of looking and planning an industrial policy the Government talks about an overall economic policy. If it thinks that all that matters is that everybody should be employed whether sweeping leaves or filling in potholes, rather than looking for quality as well as quantity, there is something radically wrong in the Australian economy today. No defence was made in this House this afternoon on behalf of the Government as to why the absorptive capacity for total employment of Australia is declining. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  quoted figures this afternoon and stated that we absorbed only half as many people in the last 12 months as we did in the previous 12 months. That is the key to increasing unemployment in Australia at the moment. If 1 may repeat it, I do not think that the jobless are deliberately created because I think that even the stupidity of this Government would not deliberately put out of employment the people it has invited to this country via a migration programme. But the fact that that is what has happened shows gross economic mismanagement and doing this kind of hand-piece job indicates that the Government is not aware of what the problems are. 
I make no apologies for having a vested interest in this matter, which involves an industry that employs nearly 4,000 people who live in the electorate which I represent. Fishermen's Bend is wholly within the electorate of Melbourne Ports. I suppose it is some assurance to hear the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  say that he believes in the necessity for a viable aircraft industry and the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  indicate that the Government is apparently hastening slowly insofar as the working out of terms of any new arrangement is concerned. I hope that both 
Ministers will keep the House informed from time to time as to the progress of any changes that may be upon us and that any merger proposition will come before the Parliament for its consideration. 
The Minister for Defence claimed that we need a viable aircraft industry. With due respect to him, I do not think that he spelt out very clearly what are the terms of that viability. I am not too sure that the word 'viable' is necessarily the correct one to use in the sense in which that word is usually economically. The word 'viable' usually means being able to pay for itself. I think it must be acknowledged that the aircraft industry in Australia as well as anywhere else must depend basically on government orders for its existence. I think that is true even in the United States of America, but the magnitude of the expenditure in that country is so great that ordinary economic criteria cannot always be applied. 1 do not mean by that that one should be reckless in one's expenditure. But one has to bear in mind that Australia is a country which is remote from most other countries and that even if it could not - and I do not believe it could - build all the aircraft that would ever be required in Australia it could certainly specialise in the makng of some types of aircraft and it should also be able to maintain its own aircraft, both civil and military. To that extent there is always a need to have some kind of aircraft complex behind the scenes. I think that the Government has itself from time to time said that there are really 4 arms of the defence activity. Three of those arms are the Army, the Navy and the Air Force. The fourth arm is the defence capacity of Australian industry. Here, at least, is part of that defence capacity of Australian industry which is not very certain about its future. 
From time to time, generally in these periods of crisis when the employees are worried about the future, I visit the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. The employees have every right to be worried. When I visit the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation it is generally when there is some difficulty about future orders. Much has been said today about Project N. I read some months ago, as I suppose most people concerned with this matter did, the article by  Mr John  Stackhouse in. the Australian 'Financial Review' of 4th October 1971. The heading stated: 
Aircraft export prospects help bargaining stance. 
The article involved this question of offset orders. I think both Ministers who have spoken in the debate referred to the fact that a little give and take is involved in this matter. If we are to buy aircraft from someone else and we have an industry of a kind, we use the fact that we want to buy in an attempt to obtain offset orders. But I also found out from the management of CAC that one of the difficulties involved in export prospects, particularly for the Project N aircraft and more latterly because the Corporation has an interest in the selling of Cessna aircraft, is that many of the developing countries which could be customers for these kinds of aircraft have had difficulties obtaining long term credit. I think that this is a point that well could be pursued by the Ministers involved in association with the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  After all, Australia must be concerned in the future to increase its exports of capital goods. 
Here is a chance for the aircraft industry. As with any other industry, costs would be lowered by reason of the volume of sales. It seems to me that many potential customers for the project N or Cessna type of aircraft would buy if payment could be made over a long term. It is time we used the agencies of such bodies as the Export Payments Insurance Corporation to try to encourage further sales overseas. What is overlooked sometimes in these considerations is the pride that the people who work in this industry have in the work they are doing. One of the sad things I notice sometimes when I visit the factories, is that skilled tradesmen nave very little work to do because of the difficulty in obtaining continuity of orders. This is frustrating to their sense of craft as well as not being very sensible anyway. This is why it is time the Government was a little more definite as to what it really thinks are the criteria for viability in this industry. I think that the matters I have suggested have to be taken into account. We have to be able to service both civil and military aircraft. 
For instance, I find that employees at the Government Aircraft Factories like to think of themselves as separate in the course of production. Even if a merger were to take place, they have suggested that they would still like to have a separate identity within the terms of the merger. These are matters that have to be considered. I do not know how much the ordinary employees are considered when mergers take place. When I go to talk to them, I discover their feelings of unease. Many of them think that the Government will sell out to what is called the private company. I am not too sure sometimes whether some of these private interests in the company might not be prepared to do the reverse. They might like to unload their capital, put it somewhere else and leave the Government to handle the merger. I do not think anybody imagines that vast fortunes will be made in the merged industry. The experience in America and more recenly the aviation section of RollsRoyce in Great Britain indicates how vulnerable these kinds of industries can become in the face of technological change. Sums of the order of $30m to $40m have been mentioned in regard to capitalisation. I suppose that the wages bill for the 2 factories which employ approximately 4,000 employees would aggregate $15m to SI 6m. So this is a significant industry. 
The Opposition has raised this issue today mainly because it feels that there is an atmosphere of doubt and uncertainty as to the future of this industry. At least we have received some assurances from both the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Supply that they believe an industry is necessary and that they will not transact any mergers without some consideration being given to the public interest. I hope also that they will have concern for those people who are employed in the industry. 
I support the amendment to the second reading of the Broadcasting and Television Bill. The amendment states:  the Bill be referred to a joint select committee to inquire into and report upon the conditions under which television and broadcasting station licences are granted and renewed' 
I was astonished to hear the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  asking why the Opposition wanted to set up a committee of this kind when a committee of the Senate is already in existence. My response is that if there is a committee of the Senate in existence, why are we considering legislation before the senators have completed their deliberations? Surely this is the relevance of the matter. The only reasons I suggest that we should have a committee of this House is that it is my belief that there are too many Senate committees and not enough committees of the House of Representatives. Where better to have a committee to inquire into this matter than in the House of which the Minister is a member? However, I shall let that matter pass. 
The Bill before this House at the moment is in suspense because certain people are making representations about it. lt is a Bill about dividend stripping and about chains of companies. In his explana tions the Minister talked about companies A, B, C and D. I refer to the Ministers second reading speech where he said:   . . it is  possible  for a person having protected interests to be inadvertently placed in contravention of the Act through no fault of  bis own  and no action on  his  part. 
All I point out to the Minister is that a person mostly means a company. The shrewdest kind of legal advice in the world is available to television companies and to suggest that the 'person' referred to is Joe Smith rather than HSV7 or GTV9 is sheer humbug. The Minister's example of a .0002 per cent error in the matter to my mind is sheer nonsense in the circumstances. 1 ask honourable members to look at the position commercial television and broadcasting stations hold in the community and I use figures from the 23rd annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. In 1969-70 there were 114 commercial broadcasting stations of which 101 made a profit and 13 made a loss. Those companies had a total revenue of $37m, total expenditure of $27m and their net profit before taxation was $9m. To make $9m clear profit on a turnover of $37m is not bad business. In the same year there were 45 television stations in operation, of which 41 made a profit and 4 showed a loss. They had a total revenue of S91m and a total expenditure of $74m. The net result before taxation was $16,670,000. Again, that is not a bad return. Surely to goodness this is what we are talking about in this amendment. 
A television licence or a broadcasting licence is a state monopoly; the state has the determination of the issue of the licence. Surely to goodness the state is entitled to put some limits upon the application of the licence. If the Government believes that there should be automatic renewal of licences, fair enough, but that .it not what we on this side of the House believe. I think it has been said - it was said more about a television licence than about a broadcasting licence - that once you grant a television licence you grant a licence to print money, and that is obvious when one looks at the return on television. I repeat that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board's report shows a clear profit by commercial television stations of nearly $17m on a turnover of $91 m. 
It is all right to say it is terrible. I think that it is terrible and ominous when one looks at the statistics that are given in this report and sees what programmes are watched and who watches them. It is all right to say that the members of the public choose for themselves. They choose between a lot of programmes which it would be better not to show at all. They make a choice merely of the programmes that are on. 
It hates excessive profit making and it hates profit being made behind restrictive conditions. Why not throw every licence open to auction every year if the Minister believes in competition. While a committee in the other place is deliberating, the Government is extending the period in which these highly profitable licences can be exercised. It is all right being cynical and saying that this is being done in an election year. 
Why did the Minister want to announce it at all? What was wrong with the annual renewal? Has anybody been refused a licence? Why decide at this time, when the Government is tottering to extinction, to alter the period? 
I listened to the Minister in silence, and I hope that he will pay me the same courtesy. In this House in recent times we have had a lot of discussion about excesses and one of the greatest exponents of the dangers of excess has been the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  in his references to drugs. What can be more significant in the community than the influence of television, particularly at a time when the Government is to introduce colour television? I am one of those - I have said this in the House previously - who believe that if it were not for the Australian Broadcasting Commission television would be a total abomination. I admire the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Minister is its administrator. 
This talk about the ABC costing us a lot of money and commercial television costing us nothing is nonsense, and I think that the Minister would agree with me. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board's report to which I have referred shows that the total revenue of commercial broadcasting stations and commercial television stations in 1969-70 was $128m. In my view there is no difference between systematically paying for a broadcasting and television licence, as everybody in Australia does, and paying a fee that is charged for advertising. After all, all the revenue of the commercial television stations and commercial radio stations comes from advertisers, and the cost of advertising is added to the prices of the goods and services which the people in the community pay. On television there are advertisements for tobacco and advertisements for petrol although if you took somebody into a dark corner and asked him: 'Is this super grade petrol?' he could not tell you. On television there are advertisements of a rather shyster kind which indicate that one second hand car is better than another. This is the kind of rape of the community that is going on at the present time, particularly in the name of commercial television. 
In my view television is one of the most magnificent media ever placed in the hands of a community to use, but we have allowed it to be taken over by these commercial operators. I am sorry that tonight I have not time to look at the details of the programmes that are shown to the majority of people between 7.30 p.m. and 10 p.m., which are called the prime viewing hours. We are spending money on education, and it is suggested that we should spend more money on education. But what is being done on television is acting against what education is supposed to be doing. I suggest that the time was ripe for the Senate to conduct an inquiry into this matter. An inquiry by this House also would be significant. But while that Senate inquiry is proceeding the Minister chose to introduce a Bill which will enable those stations which already have licences to print money to continue to do so unabated for the next 3 years. This is simply another example of the lack of social responsibility on the part of this Government. 
Lately we have been talking about the economy, investment allowances and other kinds of things. Here we find that approximately one-half per cent of the gross national product is being spent on advertisements on commercial radio stations and commercial television stations. As I have said previously, T have an inbuilt resistance to commercial television. Rarely do I watch commercial television. On most occasions when advertisements appear on television I take the opportunity to do something else, and I am sure that is what a lot of people do today. 
I hope that some day advertisements for tobacco will go off the television screen, and I hope that an intelligent population will know that there is not much difference between Shell petrol or BP petrol or some other brand of petrol. At a time when the road toll is being emphasised there are on television advertisements showing that one can get better speed on a hill with a certain car. It is hoped that people will be more discriminating when buying a car. I think that the people of Australia who ought to go to school at the present time are those who call themselves advertising agents. They fail in any intelligent appreciation of the facts of life. This is why we ask that a select committee of this House be established to inquire into this question of granting television and broadcasting station licences. After all, a broadcasting licence or television licence is a state monopoly, and nobody can deny it. Why should not some tests be placed upon its issue and some evaluation made of its uses? That is what our amendment is about. The Postmaster-General said in his reply: 'You have a Senate committee already. Why have a committee of this House?' I would say that if you have a Senate committee, why have this legislation at all? Why should the Bill not be withdrawn? If you have a Senate committee of inquiry why bring in the Bill at all? Surely this House is entitled as much as the other House to make sensible inquiries into this matter. Television is one of the most significant media we have at our disposal. 
Sometimes 1 tremble about the consequences of television, after reading many reports about it and considering the number of hours that children are subject to its influence as against the number of hours that they go to school. How much of what is shown is educational? Appallingly, how much is anti-educational? I saw a report the other day that we see about one hundred thousand deaths on television programmes in 10 years. Surely everybody knows that. I have referred before to the quality of the so-called films shown on television. There is a programme called Playhouse of the Week'. I saw those shows when I was courting and I have been married for 26 years, but these shows still come forward as the play of the week or the film of the week. There is virtually no criticism whatever of what is shown on television. Another difficulty is that many good shows on television can never be repeated. Why should not the same programme be shown on several nights a week? How many people are there who have to watch television night after night? Nobody can watch 4 programmes at once, anyway. 
 .Seeing the honourable member, I might have some doubts. But that is beside the point. We of the Opposition have moved our amendment in sincerity. When I hear the Postmaster-General talking about chains of organised companies and saying that somebody will inadvertently be penalised, I hope that some of them are penalised, because they are run by the kinds of people who have driven coaches and horses through every attempt to regulate the control of television stations. I hope that some day in Australia we will say that people who own a newspaper will have no entitlement to own a share in a television station. In a community that is supposed to be a democracy an undue influence is being exerted by the media. As long as you can mobilise a few million dollars you can take over these state monopolies and use them for your own advantage. The figures I have cited show how successful is that advantage. If I had anything to do with monopoly and excessive profits I would reckon that a profit of $17m made on a turnover of $90 m was excessive and that it required some kind of social regulation. 
I have been interested in the comments of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who, everyone knows, has participated regularly in these debates. It is easy enough to bandy about figures relating to another country. The honourable gentleman said, I think, that the Swedish motor car industry exported 75 per cent of its total production. 
He did not say to where they are exported. 
The honourable member says 'mostly', but I think he will find that most of the exports are to the rest of Europe. This is one of the points I wish to make. I had a similar discussion when the Crown Prince of Belgium was in Australia recently. When one talks about exports from Belgium, it is like sending goods across the River Murray. It would be similar to separating all the trade of the 6 States of Australia into 6 segments and saying that sending goods from New South Wales to Victoria was the equivalent to exporting. At least in Europe there is a more closely integrated market. Surely this must be always one of the features taken into account in drawing comparisons in regard to Australia. I would suggest that if the honourable member looked at the export figures for Swedish Volvo cars he would see that not as many of them as he thinks go to America. A very significant number do but most of them simply circulate around the rest of Europe. One of the reasons for the existence of the European Common Market today is to remove the trade barriers in Europe so that export trade flows more freely. Sweden of course is not a member of the Europen Economic Community; it belongs to the European Free Trade Association. I do not think that that is quite the situation we face in Australia, which is an isolated country. 
I agree with the remarks of the honourable member in essence about the motor car industry in Australia. I think we have put too many eggs into the one basket. We are producing far too many models. I suggest also that in terms of the availability of resources, we are even producing far too many cars. But we have geared our economy internally to a certain level of motor car production. What has happened recently in that industry has not happened because people still do not want to buy cars. It has happened because of inflation. Their desire to purchase has been lessened by reason of the higher prices charged for other articles. 
I have been subjected to a certain amount of lobbying in regard to the woven shirt industry in Australia. I do not mind being lobbied. It is a way to obtain information. I hope that when an honourable member is lobbied it is not suggested that he is being bought. Nevertheless, one finds out certain things when an anxious employer asks one to go to his factory to look at his problems. The employer will submit his arguments in voluminous detail. As my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has indicated, one of the difficulties associated with tariff making in Australia is that the Tariff Board, which is supposed to be the adjudicator of the processes, is inadequate. It has not enough staff to make the sort of inquiries it is required to make. Often reports are made 3 years after the Tariff Board hearing. In essence, when we receive them they are out of date. The circumstances have changed before we come to consider them. 
The woven shirt industry is an example where that seems to be happening now. Significant changes have taken place over the last several months. I have here a wellprepared submission prepared on behalf of the men's shirt industry. I cite an example. The submission states: 
Industry sources are aware that one importer alone has just contracted with a Singapore manufacture for the supply of 9,000 dozen Permanent Press Shirts per month. Annually this order represents 27.3 per cent of the Australian manufacture of this synthetic content product and is 74 per cent of the synthetic content shirts imported in 1971. The order alone accounts for 10.S per cent of total Australian production. 
I understand that this is about 15 million shirts per annum. I asked about this when I visited the manufacturer. I do not want to mention the names of the firms concerned. 1 do not think that would be fair. Neither do I propose to name the firm in Sydney which is importing the shirts. But a higher mark-up is obtained on the lower priced shirt than is obtained on the locallymanufactured shirt. I think this has to be borne in mind. While an imported shirt may be cheaper it is not as cheap as it might be if the retailer were taking only a fair margin on its retail price. 
What margin would the retailer take in the absence of any Australian production? Surely this highlights the need for some kind of price surveillance in addition to the tariff making side. What is a fair margin on a shirt that costs $2? Should it be sold for $4, $3 or $2.50? 
This is an example of what is happening. Most of the Australian shirt manufacturing industry is making fashion shirts. One needs only to look around this chamber these days to see- 
They are not only on this side of the chamber. There are one or two star examples on the honourable member's side. Apparently 1 am still regarded as a square because I wear plain white shirts and a sober tie. Fashions have changed. A great deal of design expertise is employed in the Australian industry. What happens is that a manufacturer or agent for a firm in Hong Kong or Taiwan comes to Australia. He sees a nice looking shirt and takes it back as a model. It is made in those factories under cheaper conditions with no need to set up a designing service. We were shown an example of an imported shirt wilh applique, lt is a design or separate material stuck on the garment. That was pirated from Australia. The total price of the shirt that came from, I think, Hong Kong was actually cheaper than the price of the applique alone in Australia. These are some of the difficulties that manufacturers in Australia face. 
I wish to say a little about one or two comments made in the Tariff Board report on woven shirts. I draw the attention of the House to the remark on page 15 which states: 
The Board believes that the industry should be rationalised into viable units in which the advan tages of investment and scale of production give maximum economies in all aspects of purchasing, production and marketing. 
It is very simple to say that, but it is not a very easy thing to achieve. Yesterday afternoon, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  took nearly half an hour to tell us how difficult it is to make the aircraft industry viable. Yet this report glibly states that (he woven shirt industry should be rationalised into viable units. What does that mean? Does it mean that the strong should buy out the weak or that the weak should disappear without compensation? (n the rural situation if it is thought that some dairy farmers should be phased out, an equalisation fund is introduced to compensate those who choose or who are forced to leave the industry. Such people do not go broke. They are paid to enter some other field. 1 suggest that if we talk about rationalisation, there is a need to set up some kind of fund that will compensate those who have to leave the industry, if it is felt that for efficiency they should, lest they go to the wall. 1 think that in one of the other reports a rather glib statement was made that it would be easy to sell off the plant and the premises. I do not know whether a very high price would be received. A good price might be received if a factory was in a good situation. But one would not get much for machinery which was regarded as surplus in the industry. I submit that if these vague sorts of statements are made about rationalising and so on there should be rome attempt to set up a fund. I think that this was done, for instance, in Lancashire many years ago when substantial changes had to be made in industry. Some compensation was paid to those who had to go. Presumably the compensation was paid partly by those who survived. These are the problems which we have to face. 
I do not think it is always realised how rigid in some respects specialised sections of economies are. It is these rigidities, of course, that make desirable changes sometimes very difficult to effect. This is no more evident than in both the motor car industry and the textile industries of Australia. This is rather like decentralisation in respect of which it may be suggested that more people should go from Melbrourne and Sydney to live somewhere between those cities, for example at Albury and Wodonga. But when it comes to saying whether it is to be Jim Forbes or Frank Crean who is to leave Melbourne, that becomes a rather different kind of situation. The same kind of thing applies when we make rather easy descriptions of industry rationalising itself. Industry, sometimes does rationalise itself through bankruptcies which are rather unfortunate for those who go bankrupt. There are even some nice devices of being able to buy up the losses of some of those companies for taxation purposes. This, again, simply points to the need for much more comprehensive economic integration than is the case currently in Australia. 
We should not look too much at the economy in aggregate as, I submit, with all respect to my friend the honourable member for Wakefield, he is inclined to do at times without getting down to the pieces that go to make the aggregate. I must confess that 1 am a little sceptical at times of figures quoted in the region of $2, 700m as being the excess costs of tariffs and so on. I must submit that, having regard to the figures I have seen, some rather dubious assumptions have been made to arrive at that kind of aggregate. For instance, I do not know about the honourable member for Wakefield's figure when he spoke of the motor car industry costing some $3 00m or more involving an expenditure of $300m which works out to be on an average about $600 a car. I do not think it would be as easy to suggest that if there were no Australian motor car industry, the average cost of cars, trucks and other vehicles imported by Australia, in the isolated position in which it is placed, would necessarily be $600 less than at present. These are matters which I do not think are easily demonstrable. 
What we do have at the moment is some stickiness in the unemployment situation involving skilled and unskilled workers. As my friend the honourable member for Lalor pointed out, the glib suggestion that something like 10,000 people could be thrown out of employment in the textile industry if certain things happened and that that would somehow be a good shaking of the economy is a matter which would need to be investigated on its merits. Certainly, there would be nothing sillier than to pay some 60,000 people who are receiving unemployment benefits at the moment $30 a week for doing nothing if employment could be found for them in the production of goods with a value in excess of $30. 
We should also remember that there are quite wide differences in wages. My friend also suggested that wages are not by any means the principal component in the costs of the textile industry. But they are significant enough. In a situation where the average hourly wage cost is about $1.33 - I think that the report suggests that in some places it is only one-tenth of that amount - this cost makes a significant difference to the final price of a product. 
The level at which tariffs should be set is one of the most difficult of economic problems. As a former student of economics at an academic level - and I hope that I am still a student of this subject in some of its practical aspects - I suppose the 2 most difficult things that one had to absorb were the tariffs on the one hand and the fixing of exchange rates on the other. Both components have to be dealt with rather arbitrarily and there is not a particular, ideal pattern that one can say should or should not apply. It is all right to argue that 'tariffs should come down in the abstract form in one country when maybe barriers apply. I find that in the literature issued today there is more discussion about what are called non-tariff barriers to trade than there are about the tariff as such. All kinds of devices are taken. For instance, in the case of meat the Americans at times have simply said that they thought that our abattoirs were dirty when we know that they are clean enough. But such a device can be used as a deterrent to the export cf certain commodities to another country. These kinds of measures are applying. 
I hope that in the future we shall get more adequate mechanisms to enable us to examine these things properly. One needs only to see the vast volume of literature that is distributed to honourable members. One publication which was distributed recently by the Tariff Board on the plastics industry was something like one inch thick. It contained a great amount of technical information but one would need to be almost an industrial chemist to comprehend its meaning. Publications of this sort are thrown onto the tables of every honourable member supposedly to be read, to be understood and to be digested oy him. To imagine that we can do our business in this impractical kind of way is completely wrong. 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. By way of preamble I point out that the figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician on 24th February last show that total employment in Australia during 1971 rose by only 66,000 as against 167,000 in each of the 2 prior years. For the first time in our history female employment increased more than did male employment, public employment accounted for 60 per cent of the increase, and males employed in manufacturing increased by only 1,000 despite the fact that this is the category that accounts for one-third of total male employment. I ask: Is he concerned by these trends? Secondly, do not the figures suggest that substantial structural changes are taking place in the Australian economy which call for greater co-operation between employee and employer interests and the Government as to the future needs of industry, public and private, and that these changes have implications for education, particularly at higher levels and including training schemes? Finally, do not the figures suggest that a revision of current migrant intake is also desirable? 
 What the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has said raises some pretty fundamental questions and I appreciate that he hopes there will be discussion on the matter in the months ahead. But with all respect I doubt whether the mechanisms exist by which these discussions can satisfactorily take place, lt seems to me that the substance of the changes that are proposed reside in the following passage from his speech: 
The scheme that the Actuary has proposed and which the Board has concluded should be adopted as the model for early development of revised superannuation arrangements for Commonwealth employees, expresses contributions as a constant percentage of salary throughout a member's service, the actual percentage rate being determined by the member's age when entering the scheme. 
Of course, this is quite a departure, from the present scheme, which the Treasurer outlined, where the entitlement to units becomes larger the older the member becomes. In as far as the units are actuarily based the cost becomes higher per unit by reason of the age component. 
When the Treasurer indicated this evening that he intended to raise this matter - I thank him for having given me at least a brief summary of what he proposed  -  I obtained a copy of the 1969-70 report of the Superannuation Board, which is the latest available.. The figures which the Treasurer gave are a year later than those in the report but have been updated in relation to numbers. In the introduction the report says: 
The total membership of the scheme at 30th June 1970 was 206,788, or nearly 30 per cent of the contributors and pensioners in selfadministered Government schemes in Australia. 
Applying the factor of 30 per cent, that would presume that there were, something like 690,000 people in what are described as self-administered Government schemes in Australia. I assume that that means the Commonwealth scheme, State schemes and local government schemes. In addition to that there are a welter of what are called private superannuation and pension schemes and as well there are. the vast numbers of the public who are not covered by a scheme at all. To change the scheme as fundamentally as is proposed here with out at this stage looking at the broader question of the community as a whole would be. quite an unfortunate step to take because at least we are getting the community to come around to the point where it believes that something in the nature of national superannuation should be introduced. 1 do not want this evening to go into the degree to which in essence Government and private schemes are subsidised by revenue by reason of the fact that the contributions that the individual makes to these funds are tax exempt and by reason of the fact - it varies according to the fund - that what is called the employer's part of the fund comes out of public funds directly, as is the case with the Commonwealth fund or the State, fund, or that part of any private fund, insofar as it is paid, also is a tax deduction. 
The proportions, as I understand them, at the moment are broadly that of every $7 paid out of the Commonwealth fund something like $2 is the result of the contribution of the member and something like $5 is the subvention from the Government. That roughly is the proportion. At least the Commonwealth and the States, as employers, have set models that have not been followed elsewhere. Nevertheless those who are fortunate enough to be members of funds, whether they are Government or private funds, get the advantage at the end by reason of reduction directly from taxation in some cases or an appropriation directly from the Government in other cases. When one takes the community as a whole, there are something like 690,000 people in Government funds, which represents only about oneseventh of what is described as the work force; the number in private funds is very difficult to ascertain. The unfortunate aspect still is that the survey which was conducted in Victoria recently when  Mr Coward  came out from Canada - I think this can be applied across the board in Australia - showed that something like two-thirds of the Australian population was not covered at all. This is the serious kind of position that the Government has to face up to. It is proposing here quite a significant change. It is shifting from a unit scheme to a flat rate proportion scheme. 
I might say, without divulging anything, I am a member of a committee, as the 
Treasurer knows, which is investigating another such scheme under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Act. The Committee intends at this stage to come down also on the side of a scheme that was related to some percentage of benefits payable as the basis of contribution to superannuation. I hope that the Government will seriously consider what I am about to say. I hope the day is not far distant when we have something that is described as a 'national superannuation scheme'. If such a scheme is to be introduced, in my view it has to take into account a number of factors. 
Firstly, it does not do anything at all for those people who have already retired. Their benefits are fixed in relation to past contributions, or in the case of about 800,000 people, in relation to what are called 'social service payments'. It does not do very much at all for those people who are on the point of retirement either. If a national scheme were introduced today a person could not expect to contribute $1, at the age of 64 years and 364 days, and get a benefit tomorrow. There has to be a provisional period. A much more significant problem concerns about twothirds of the population who at present are not covered by any benefit at all and who must look forward, if one can properly use that term, to the social service scheme. 
This is really, in the finish, what national superannuation is about. It is guaranteeing those who have wrought in the years of their strength decent sustenance in the years of their retirement. 1 suppose that these schemes are not viable ultimately in an actuarial sense. They are viable only in the social contractual sense, and that is that those who are contributing today are prepared to allow those who have retired to purchase goods and services produced by the rest of the community. I think it was well described by somebody in a graphic way that while individuals grow old and proceed from the cradle to the grave, the community does not grow old. It is the community as a whole that pays one way or another for those who are in retirement. 
At least Commonwealth, State and private superannuation schemes are regarded or were regarded as systematic enough, but I think the kinds of qualification that the 
Treasurer has indicated in his speech this evening show some of the difficulties we face. He suggests that it is necessary to try to keep the value of pensions constant by adjusting them to cost of living figures. At least this makes rather a jest of what were called 'actuarial computations' in the past; but I think this jest becomes unjust if those who happen to have been unfortunate enough to have contributed to those funds in essence are compensated for these things by the rest of the community. I suggest that this ultimately is what the community as a whole has to decide. 
One of the interesting things about the surplus of $14,779,000 - near enough to $15m - is that it has arisen because interest rates in terms of the fund have risen from 3) per cent to 5 per cent. At least the contributors to the fund are beneficiaries of the higher interest rate, but the rest of the community are debtors in that kind of situation. I hope that the Government will go further than merely to reconsider the assumptions of the fund. I hope that it will acknowledge not only that there is a community obligation to the Commonwealth and the States as more model employers than some others but also that something has to be done about the vast majority of the community who live as employees of what is described as 'private enterprise'. Insofar as they belong to the manual group rather than to the white collar group they tend to be neglected in respect of retirement provisions. On my side of the House, at least, we believe that we have an obligation to those sorts of people to guarantee them in retirement something of the same kind of benefits related to their last year's earnings, as is the case with government employees. 
Members of the generation between 55 years and 65 years who are not covered at present by any of these schemes probably will not be quite as tolerant about the provision of old age pensions, as they are called, as were past generations, f think the present provision is inadequate. It depends upon political largesse, usually conditioned by how close it is to an election. There is no guarantee that the payments will retain their purchasing power. I do not think that that kind of situation will be tolerated very much longer. When the considerations which the Treasurer has outlined this evening are being contemplated. I hope that some consideration will be given to those people who ate not covered at present by any systematic scheme. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Managemnt, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all vice to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 - There is just one aspect of this matter that disturbs me somewhat, that is, that there was such a margin of error, if I may call it that. At one stage it was thought that there would be a 13 per cent equity but this finally turned out to be a 21 per cent equity. It is not so much the difference between 13 per cent and 21 per cent - a mere 8 per cent - as the increase of 8 on 13. The margin of error was of the magnitude of 40 per cent to 50 per cent. This only highlights the kinds of ragbag methods we have for policing this very important field of endeavour. We have at stake the natural resources in the great operation of Mineral Securities of Australia Ltd. Whilst I agree with the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  that in some respects it was a salvage operation, it seems to me to have turned out to be a rather peculiar salvage operation which has left foreign dominance in this entity much greater than was thought desirable. It may be that there is nothing much that can be done about it at this stage except to learn once again from bitter experience that the measures taken were inadequate or insufficient. This serves only to highlight the great laxity that exists in Australia in regard to the policing of the entry of foreign funds into this country. It is not so much funds in the money sense but the physical kind of assets which those funds are able to purchase. 
As far back as the last Budget debate in August I pointed out the ambiguous statement that appeared in the report of the Reserve Bank of Australia which was associated with the presentation of the Budget and which stated that Australia had been unable to manage its international monetary policy because of the large amount of inflow of capital from overseas. I noticed that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  observed upon that yesterday in his address to the Australian Mining Industry Council meeting held in Canberra. The previous Prime Minister when he was the Prime Minister, which is a considerable time ago, said that they had found that money seemed to be coming into Australia and going into property but this did not seem to be able to be taped. At long last the Government belatedly says that it is going to do something about it now and according to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  the Government is at the point of bringing down a document to this House which will deal with the situation. We are getting a bit tired of the presentation of documents that seem only to delay and not to decide. Surely it is time that something more fundamental was done. 
I hope that we will learn from this kind of bitter experience. The bitterness arises from the fact that there is higher foreign ownership in these uranium deposits than was originally intended and in my view this is regrettable. I believe that for the most part a country should control its own natural resources. Particularly in these days when we are talking so much about ecology and the conservation of resources it is much more important for us to have a dominant say about the hole in the ground, and this surely it what is at stake in this issue. I hope that whilst it may be we will have to bow to the inevitable on this occasion there will be more action and that we will get guidelines that really guide instead of merely camouflage, as seems to be the case. 
In raising this matter of public importance I should like first to state that the Australian Labor Party is not opposed to foreign investment as such, but it does recognise that foreign investment requires substantial scrutiny from time to time and not just an odd glance at the level of reserves which seems to have been the policy of the present Government, at least until the time when the previous Prime Minister made his famous 'tickle my tummy' speech some few years ago. What one should ask is what has happened since. In speaking on the evening before last at a dinner given by the Australian Mining Industry Council, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  stated: 
The Treasury at present has in hand an indepth study on the whole subject of foreign investment m Australia. 
I would say it is a very belated attempt to undertake an in-depth study. He continued: 
I do not wish in any way to forecast what, if any. changes in the Government's policy might eventuate as a result of its consideration of this study. I can, however, say that one of the aspects we will be looking at will be whether the very high level of capital inflow we have experienced over the past couple of years poses difficulties, for the domestic management of the economy and, if so, whether there is need for a change in policies to forestall any danger of that kind. 
I should have thought that the last report of the Reserve Bank of Australia made it clear enough that there were some difficulties, arising out of the rapid and uncontrolled flow of capita] into this country, facing the Reserve Bank in its efforts to implement a monetary policy that it was thought to have imposed. 
Yesterday in answer to a question from one of my colleagues the Prime Minister referred to a statement by the Reserve Bank in February 1972. Through the courtesy of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  I have obtained a copy of that document. It shows the capital movements and the exchange control approvals for the period ended December 1971. I want to refer to one or two matters in the document because the document implies that there are still very significant gaps in the information available and in fields in which information ought to be available but in which apparently it is not. What the document shows - I recognise the fact that what are called 'approvals' may not eventuate, but at least one can make some comparison between the level in one year as against the level in the previous year - is that during 1971 approvals for inward capital movements totalled $2, 152m compared with $1,1 56m in 1970, an increase of approximately $ 1,000m in a space of 12 months. The approvals totalling $2, 152m represented from 6 per cent to 7 per cent of the gross national product. 
The tables in the document go on to show what has been evident enough - that there has been an increase in aggregate, both in what is described as direct investment and in portfolio investment, and that relatively the latter one had risen more in the last 12 months than had direct investment. The document goes on to state: 
Enterprises in Australia which can be grouped under the heading 'Banking, Finance and Insurance' accounted for almost 40 per cent of the increase in aggregate approvals to borrow abroad in 1971 compared with 1970: 'Wholesale and Retail Trade and Other Commerce' enterprises accounted for about one-quarter of the increase and 'Minerals, Mining and Processing' enterprises for about a further 20 per cent. 
Then this final observation was made: 
The 'Banking, Finance and Insurance' group is largely composed of financial intermediaries and complete information about the end use of their borrowings is not available. 
I point to that first as a very simple example of a deficiency in information that ought to be available, lt was also said in February of last year - over a year ago - by the previous Prime Minister that he thought that a lot of money was finding its way into property development in Australia. That ought to be apparent enough from the White Paper last year on the national income, which showed that whilst there was a decline in real terms - the figures are shown in the latest issue of the Treasury 'Bulletin Notes', which is that for October 1971 - in housing and flat construction in 1970-71 as against the position in the previous year, the construction of other new building, particularly what is described as private building, rose by some 22 per cent. There is no doubt that a large part of the money that accounted for that increase was a part of the inflow of capital from overseas. 
That is one deficiency already in the information available. I shall instance another one. I remind honourable members that my proposition deals with not only industry but also natural resources. Before this Parliament rose last year I placed a question on the notice paper concerning petroleum titles. I did not get an answer to that question until the beginning of this session. The question, which was asked of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and which was No. 4392, and the answer to it appear at page 76 of Hansard of 22nd February 1972. Among other things, I asked: 
What is the total area in Australia, onshore and off-shore, under petroleum titles in each of the descriptions of (a) authorising, (b) prospecting and (c) production. 
What areas in each description are held by (a) Australian companies and (b) non-Australian companies. 
The answer I received to that question some months later was in these terms: 
and (2) The information requested by the honourable member will not be available until an examination at present being made in the Bureau of Mineral Resources of my Department has been completed. The information will be forwarded to the honourable member when it becomes available. 
The development of these national resources is important to Australia. Therefore why do we not know who has the leases, whether they are prospecting or production leases, and the. division of the leases as between local and foreign interests? I submit that it is appalling that such a situation should exist in Australia. No indepth study is required at a Treasury level to see that a deficiency already exists. According to a document entitled 'Overseas Investment 1970-71 (Preliminary)' - as late as 20th December 1971 the situation was still a preliminary one and there has been no further figure since that date - foreign capital flowed into Australia in the last 3 years at the rate of $ 1,021m in 1968-69, $l,025m in 1969-70 and $l,493m in 1970-71". We do not have in Australia as yet anything that could be called a map of the totality of foreign investment in this country, whether it is in primary industry, mining and quarrying, manufacturing industries or in the dubious new venture of property development. We do not know by a margin of almost several billion dollars whether it is of a magnitude of $8,000m or, as some people have estimated it, somewhere in the region of $1 1,000m. That is not good enough, particularly in view of the critical stage, of our development at present. At stake is the economic sovereignty, if you like, of Australia. i draw the attention of honourable members to a surreptitious document that was apparently circulated in other parts of the world as well as in Australia. It is described as 'A Citizen's Guide to the Gray Report' and comes from a Canadian source. Presumably the Gray Report is not supposed to have seen the. light of day yet but somebody obtained, a copy of it and printed it in the form of a booklet. I wish to quote what it states at the beginning about the problem. I suggest that the problem there is equally the same as the problem in Australia. It states: 
The high and growing degree of foreign, and particularly US, control of Canadian business activity has led to a Canadian industrial structure which largely reflects the growth priorities of foreign corporations. 
It has as well led to the establishment of truncated' firms for which many important activities are performed abroad by the parent company, with the result that the development of Canadian capacities or activities in these areas is stultified. 
These developments have made it more difficult for the Government to control the domestic national economic environment. They have also influenced the development of the social, cultural and political environment in Canada. 
The increasing internationalisation of some important sectors of industry and the growth of the multinational enterprise as an institutional development of foreign direct investment add  a  further dimension of complexity to the Government's ability to control the national economic environment. 
I submit that h is not possible in Australia at the moment to pursue a properly integrated economic policy serving the general national interests. According to this surreptitious document, the Gray Committee said that there were 3 broad policy alternatives which the Government might adopt to deal with the problem of foreign ownership and domestic control. They were: 
the introduction of a screening process, i.e. a government agency with the power to negotiate for better performance from foreign direct investors- 
For instance, the further processing of raw materials - and with the power to block investment that does not make a net contribution to the Canadian economy or that does not accord with the objectives of the Government; 
the delineation of further key sectors in which foreign ownership would be regulated; 
the introduction of across-the-board ownership rules, (e.g. 51 per cent Canadian ownership) and other structural changes relating to the use of Canadian managers and directors. 
The document concludes with this comment: 
Particular attention has been given to defining a potential role for a screening process, as during the course of the analysis, it emerged as probably the most effective and least costly way of dealing with the problems. 
I submit that that is what is required in Australia. I wish to indicate in what will be almost my final comments what the platform of the Australian Labor Party provides as far as this important question is concerned. The following policy was approved at the twenty-ninth conference of the Australian Labor Party in Launceston: 
Establish clear guidelines for overseas investors, for the benefit both of those investors and of the Australian community. 
Overseas investment in Australia to be encouraged only where it introduces new technology and expertise, includes plans for Australian participation in the enterprises, and/or otherwise shows itself to be in Australia's national interest. 
I submit that at the moment we do not have clear guidelines in relation to this important element of our total economic development. For that reason, we have raised for discussion this matter of public importance today at least to draw attention to this situation and to hope that we will not get documents but that we will begin to get decisions. 
This Bill has a delightfully deceptive title. It is described as 'A Bill for an Act Relating to the Settlement of Matters arising out of Employment in the Public Service'. One would never think from the speeches that have come from the supporters of the Government this evening tha: what is called public service employment covers something like one-quarter of the total employment field in Australia and that in the last 12 disastrous months of the economic management of this Government the unemployment situation would have been even worse than it was had it not been for the fact that, although the public sector employs in aggregate one-quarter of the total employment in Australia, the employment situation in that sector increased by something like 39,000 out of a total increased employment of 66,000. 
I know that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  is aware that what is described as public service employment covers quite a variety of jobs. It covers the ordinary Civil Service as we know it as well as such activities as the Commonwealth Railways and the naval dockyards. In fact, it covers quite a number of other kinds of employment. Honourable members opposite talk as though we are discussing a kindergarten situation, but that is quite wide of the realities of the position. I listened for quite a long time to the remarks of the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  who was the previous  speaker  in the debate. He comes from a very distinguished academic background, but I doubt whether he knows how ordinary people live, which is what is involved here. 
I listened also with some interest to the remarks this afternoon of my friend the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  He is a humane enough man, but he talked about this matter as though he were talking about the employment of a stable useful, when what is involved is what happened in Victoria recently and what has been happening as far as the Post Office is concerned. Our nation could have been confronted with a civil war kind of situation if the electricity strike had proceeded for a week or so longer than it did. I am one who thanks fortune that the dispute was solved. But disputes of this nature are not going to be solved if people like the Premier of Victoria say, while the dispute is on, that they will refer the matter to arbitration and then, when arbitration takes place, say they are not going to take any notice of the decision until later - in this case September. I hope that the honourable member for Corangamite will communicate that message to the Premier of Victoria, who is in his electorate. If that is his attitude to industrial relations involving one-quarter of the total employment in Australia, is it any wonder that we have violent disturbances? 
They are indicative, exactly. My friend the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  highlighted that situation very well this morning following the urbane speech of the urban gentleman from Corangamite. Surely what we are talking about at the moment is people. We are talking about one-quarter of the total employment in Australia. I have a very congenial relationship with the honourable member for Corangamite but, with due respect to him, I do not think that he understands the changes that are taking place in the Australian economy. It is going to be increasingly true that a higher proportion of total employment will be in what is vaguely described as the Public Service and less in the private levels. I repeat that in the last 12 months the public sector, which accounts for one-quarter of the total employment in Australia, was responsible for something like 60 per cent of the increase in the total employment. 
Honourable members opposite are putting their heads in the sand when they talk about an unemployment situation of 115,000. I am not one who is displeased because it fell from a higher level to a lower level. It would have been very tragic indeed if it had not done so. All I am suggesting to honourable members opposite is that they still do not realise the magnitude of the unemployment situation in this country. The other day I quoted some figures from a publication 'Employed Wage and Salary Earners in Australia, December 1971'. That publication was issued at noon on 24th February 1972. It showed that for the 12 months ended December 1971 the total absorption into employment in Australia was 66,000 and that in the 2 previous years for the same calendar period it had been near enough to 166,000. There was a deterioration of 100,000 or something like 60 per cent. That is the reality of the situation. 
One of my friends in the Press Gallery yesterday showed me a copy of a document that I suppose will be on my table when 1 get home tomorrow. It is the same regular document as the one to which I referred earlier, except it was issued for the month of January. It shows that instead of employment opportunities increasing in the last 12 months, they had fallen from 66,000 to 39,000, which simply shows the deterioration which has occurred in the absorptive capacity of the economy. Honourable members opposite may say that the figure of 115,000 unemployed does not sound very much; but even when related to the increase in employment opportunities of 66,000, which is more optimistic from their point of view, it is bad enough. When it is related to an increase in employment opportunities of 39,000 a dismal picture emerges of what is happening. It will take something like  2½  years to absorb in employment all those who are unemployed without taking into account the fact that something like 200,000 people come onto the employment market annually in Australia. I am surprised at the Government's complacency about the employment situation. It appears to be clutching at every straw. The sum of $100m is regarded as chicken feed if that is the amount which is required by the Government to do something it wants to do, but if it is said by, say, the Opposition that $100m will improve things the Government argues that it will be the straw that breaks the camel's back. I suggest that that is what we should try to analyse in relation to the situation that exists at the moment. 
The Bill has a wide title. I read it when I began my speech. As I said, it has a deceptively simple title. I appreciate that I am talking to more than deceptively simple people. The title of the Bill is 'A Bill for an Act Relating to the Settlement of Matters arising out of Employment in the Public Service'. If the Minister wants it to be described in any more concrete terms, I say that it will cover the sort of employment that embraces one-quarter of total employment in Australia. If he regards that as a simple exercise, I do not. I regard it as a fundamentally important exercise in which changes are taking place. 
I asked the Minister for Labour and National Service a question recently. I suppose that if I had been more decent I should have given him advance notice that I was going to ask the question. But I thought that as he was a reasonably competent Minister he would have looked at the figures for himself. All I suggest is that the Government is not exploring the information that is available. There are quiet, surreptitious, silent but nevertheless inevitable changes taking place in the patterns of employment at the present time. Employment in manufacturing industry, which in the past has been responsible in aggregate for approximately one-third of total employment in Australia, is getting less year by year. 
Where do people go if manufacturing declines in an economy? Of course, one of the reasons why manufacturing declines is mechanisation in industry. Every time reference is made to a 35-hour working week we hear shouts from honourable members opposite, particularly the members of the Australian Country Party, but the problems facing primary industry have nothing whatever to do with the 35-hour working week. That is not even upon us yet. But members of the Country Party suggest that if a 35-hour working week does come upon us the problems facing primary industry will be even more compounded. All I submit is that whatever problems are facing primary industry, they have nothing whatever to do with the 35- hour working week. I notice that the 
Minister for Labour and National Service has retreated from the table. He is responsible for this legislation. 
One of the things which I think is appalling at the moment concerns unemployment benefits. The purpose of paying unemployment benefits is to try as quickly as possible to put people into employment. But we find that the attitude of the Department of Labour and National Service is to try to stop people from registering for employment in order to. receive unemployment benefits. I submit that this is an appalling situation. With very few exceptions, anybody who is out of work in Australia is not out of work through any fault of his own; he is out of work because of the changes that are taking place in the availability of employment. I know that the Government is incredibly stupid, but I did not think it was so stupid that simultaneously it would bring people to these shores from outside Australia and allow the same people to be unemployed in Australia. But unfortunately that is what is happening. There are still 115,000 people unemployed in Australia, and I have tried to illustrate tonight that even by adopting an optimistic attitude it will take 2 years totally to absorb that number into the work force, apart from the people who come to this country and the people who leave school in the next 12 months. It is a pretty significant problem. Until it is solved the Government is doing a great disservice .to the people who come hopefully to these shores believing it to be a land of full employment when it is a land of unemployment. 
I suggest that these are very serious matters and I should have thought that they were matters which would have been considered more seriously in this chamber tonight. This afternoon an honourable member opposite tried to score a point by referring to the fact that not one member on the Opposition front bench had spoken in the debate. As honourable members know, the reason why my colleague, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb),  who previously was on the front bench, led this debate on behalf of the Opposition was that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is out of the country at the present time and, I understand, it was not thought that this Bill would come on for debate until next week. However, that is beside the point. Honourable members opposite can score cheap debating points if they want to do so, but I think it is time that the seriousness of the problem of achieving full employment in Australia was realised. 
All that this Bill is doing is making an attempt at union bashing. It is an attempt to separate what might be called the industrial aspects of Public Service employment' from the other aspects. An attempt has been made to suggest that if there is a stand-down in one aspect of industry and it flows over into other aspects of industry, the. Government will use these powers to stand down those employees who are indirectly unemployed. If honourable members opposite regard that as being a serious attitude to adopt towards employment, it astonishes me. I do not think there is anything more criminally absurd in Australia at the moment than to see the position of what might be called the 'defence based industries'. I refer particularly to those industries in my electorate, such as the aircraft industry. The Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  who is at present sitting on a back bench behind the scenes knows what I am talking about. These industries with their splendidly equipped factories and skilled manpower do not know from day to day what programme, of work is ahead of them. It is people in such industries whom the Government wants to stand down under the terms of this legislation. 
I suggest that what the Government should do is to activate those industries, because if they are activated there, is less likelihood of stand-downs in other directions. The fact which will not be acknowledged by this Government is that the last Budget, instead of being a strategy of economic expansion, was a disastrous strategy of economic contraction, and the. whole economy is suffering in consequence. Again, I point to the figures of total employment last year. There are 2 astonishing things in the economy. Every honourable member opposite says that he believes in private enterprise. Last year, of the increase of 66,000 in total employment, 39,000 were in public enterprise and 27,000 were in private enterprise. When it comes to social legislation dealing with contraceptives, abortion and other matters, the same honourable members applaud the virtues of family life in the. community. Last year of the increase of 66,000 in total employment. 38,000 were females and 28,000 were males. At the moment, of total unemployment of 115,000, two-thirds are males in the categories described as 'unskilled and semi-skilled manual'. Those people are not going to be taken into employment by sweeping up, in autumn, the leaves that will disappear in winter. Unfortunately, this is the attitude of this Government. 
Recently in the Parliamentary Library I read an article in an English magazine entitled 'New Society'. It stated that reliance in public works as such was a disastrous way to balance the economy, and I believe that to be the case. So many things in Australia which still need to be done, which ought to be done, and which can be done will not be done while we have this day to day attitude to the totality of events.  1  submit with all respect that this Bill is attempting to bind people who in conjunction with other workers in civil industry, are trying to maintain and improve their conditions of employment. The policies of the Government are doing the reverse of that. They are diminishing standards and decreasing the availability of employment. That is the reason why we object to this measure. 
MrWHITTORN (Balaclava) (9.30)- This Bill relates to the Public Service Arbitration Act. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said, it is a long time since the Public Service Arbitration Act has been altered. Basically this Bill relates to industrial disputes in the Public Service. While it is true that one-quarter of the work force works in the Public Service, all of this section of the work force is not in the Commonwealth Public Service. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports was misleading when he seemed to indicate that all the public servants in Australia worked for the Commonwealth. That is not so. This type of legislation is aimed more or less at the industrial sector of the Public Service. Probably it would involve about 100,000 employees. Of course, many of those employees are white collar workers; some of them are workers on the bench or on the line, or process workers. The people we are speaking about more particularly represent about 25 per cent of the total number of Commonwealth public servants. I think that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Government are quite right in introducing legislation of this type so that the Public Service will realise that it, too, is put on (he line as are normal workers in other industries. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports spoke about civil wars. He related his thoughts to the fact that there has been a strike by 12,000 State Electricity Commission workers in Victoria. What he did not say, was that these workers at the SEC in Victoria tried to achieve their ends by direct action and failed. They held the State to ransom for almost a week. They made 220,000 people throughout Australia lose at least a week of time and wages. Many unionists protested in front of the Trades Hall in Melbourne. They insisted at the Trades Hall that the SEC workers get back to work. This is the banditry that we are talking about when we introduce legislation of this type. This is the bludgeon which is used by militant unions in Australia. We do not want to see it used in the Public Service. As has been said, the Public Service Arbitration Act has remained basically the same since 1920. I give marks to the Minister and to the Government for making variations to the Act because there is something difficult about altering Acts of this type. We all know the story of Lord Bruce in 1929. This year this Government and the Opposition are going to elections. We will use this sort of information as part of our election campaign because we are here to protect the interests of all the people, not the small minorities which use these tactics against the basic people in Australia. 
In the SEC dispute in Victoria 12,000 people held Victoria to ransom and brought it to a standstill. There were no trains, very few trams and so on. People were out of work. The discomfort to old people and superannuitants was disgusting to see. People tried to get to their offices in the city in cars. People were killed because they had to change their normal method of getting to the city and try to obtain lifts. At least one man was killed. I believe that his family should bring a charge against the secretary of the union which caused this dispute in Victoria. It is a terrible thing that a few people can cause such a disturbance in a country. This afternoon it was mentioned that 4 switchboard operators would not turn on the switches at the Sydney Mail Exchange. The 2,750 people who came to work could not operate that day and it cost the Australian taxpayers - the people who pay the bills all the time- $50,000 for the 24-hour stoppage which was caused by 4 men. This country just cannot afford or tolerate that sort of activity by a minority, militant group. 
We on this side of the House represent the people. We are looking after the interests of those who are upset and discontented because of militant activities by certain union bosses. In fact I say that the stage has been reached in Australia - I could use this slogan - when we see union bosses versus the people. This Government must do something about rectifying that situation. We are not here to penalise anybody. I do not care if a man gets $1,000 a week or a day if he is worth it and if we remain competitive with overseas countries in the goods which are produced. Why do we not have a look - I thought the honourable member for Melbourne Ports would have had a look - at the increased costs which have resulted because of militant union action throughout Australia in recent years. Let us have a look at increased prices in 1971. They average 7 per cent. Where were these increased? Household appliances increased in price by 3 per cent; food increased by 4 per cent; rail and tram fares which involve public servants increased by 26 per cent; and postal and telephone charges increased by 15 per cent. This is where the money pf the worker who is not on strike is going. The housewife who wonders where her next dollar is coming from has to find money for these increased charges. Anybody who has paid his halfyearly telephone account recently will realise, as I did, how high the charges have risen in recent years. It is quite fantastic. 
Nobody can say that the Post Office is making money. Of course, it pays interest on the loan fund for capital works but the ordinary operating expenses of the Post Office are centred on labour. That is what we are paying for in these charges. Yet we saw the spectacle in recent weeks of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union taking direct action, limiting the activities of its members and upsetting thousands and thousands of people in Australia? Who has tried to value the time lost to the thousands of people in Australia? It is impossible to cost. We have inflation because these workers are limiting their activities and they expect to do half a day's work for a whole day's pay. Who pays? The taxpayers, the other people who are not involved in the strike. I am on the side of the 95 per cent of the people who are not getting any results. I am on the side of the pensioners and the superannuitants because they are obtaining nothing from the militant activity of trade unions. All they are doing is paying more for the goods and services which they hope to obtain. This is the bludgeon which has been used. It will continue to be used unless we introduce legislation of this type on limitation of work and strikes. Direct action is all right as long as it does not upset 95 per cent of the people of Australia. It has been said today but it bears repetition that from 1950 to 1967 Post Office employees held 16 stoppages. From 1968 to 1972 they held 136 stoppages. That represents an increase of 750 per cent over the years preceding 1968. This country and the people in it just cannot afford this type of direct confrontation. 
I believe that public servants in the past were and most of them now are really good public servants and good operators but I believe that they do have certain advantages that the worker in industry just does not have. For instance, they have constant employment and they really have to do some real damage to be sacked from the Public Service. In other words, if they want it they have a job for life. They get good superannuation and again, much of this is contributed by the people of Australia - the taxpayer. They enjoy excellent leave conditions. They should realise - I feel most of them do - that they are doing a job that is useful to them and they should do something about it instead of holding to ransom the people who are paying their wages. They should recognise that this is happening. In years gone by, public servants did feel this way but it seems to me that in certain sections of the Public Service, today that principle has been put aside, for obvious reasons. 
Notwithstanding all of these good conditions and the service that most of them give to Australia, there is a certain section of the Public Service that feels it can continue to push the country and the people of Australia around and increase costs. I have already given the figures relating to increased costs. The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  talked about the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and its price increases during his contribution to this debate this afternoon. He mentioned that BHP increased its basic prices by 5.3 per cent. What he did not say was, firstly, that there are 180)000 shareholders in BHP. They are not all bosses, businessmen and managers; they are workers. Secondly, BHP turns over to its shareholders 4 per cent of its depreciated capital in the form of dividends. In other words, it gives a return on depreciated capital of 4 per cent. What does the Government give on long term loan issues? It gives 6 per cent, 7 per cent or 7i per cent. BHP gives 4 per cent to its stockholders, many of whom are workers. The Government gives 6 per cent or more on government bonds. I am speaking now on behalf of the ordinary people of Australia - the. men and the women who pay the bills. These are the people who are upset by these challenging tactics of militant unions, this confrontation of the people of Australia. I am the representative of the majority of Australian people; I speak up on their behalf. 
We on this side of the House are on the side of the little people of Australia. We want to make sure that the housewife can buy her goods at a reasonable price and there is only one way to do that as the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  said earlier, namely, with a little pore productivity. All the experts have told us about the need for productivity but nobody seems to have taken much note of it. Too many people today feel they ought to take a drop of this new drug which I talked about late last year, namely, SFN - some thing for nothing. We as a people - most workers agree with this view - must produce if we are to be competitive with overseas countries. We hear the trouble concerning shirts coming in from Hong Kong, Singapore and other overseas countries. Of course, they will keep coming in unless we produce competitively. The only way to do that is to keep at work, to make sure that we maintain wage rates which are suitable to the industry and thus ensuring that the people of Australia can lead a comfortable life. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry: Why has the publication 'Directory of Overseas Investment in Australian Manufacturing Industry 1971' not been distributed to honourable members? Does not the figure that indicates that assets of the Australian companies listed amount to approximately $11, 000m make our much vaunted overseas reserves of $3,000m somewhat lesser in the perspective of liabilities as against assets? Is not the exclusion of overseas portfolio investment a serious omission in a total view of the degree of overseas penetration of Australian industry? Why does not the publication include, as a similar one did in 1966, a classification by industry and percentage of ordinary capital owned overseas? Are any figures for later than 1966-67 available as to direct overseas ownership and control, by industry classification? 
I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  ultimately came to the central point - that there are times in these matters when interests other than the interests of shareholders are involved. This discussion of a matter of public importance is centralised around something which has been going on now for the best part of a month, namely, a struggle between 2 companies which, whilst they rather grandiloquently bear the individual names of 2 people - Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd - nevertheless aggregate between them something like S3 00m in turnover annually in the transport field. It is sometimes suggested that this is not much, but there would need to be only another 100 instances of this rate of turnover to encompass the entire gross national product. 
I should like to quote from the 1961-62 annual report of Ansett Transport Industries, after the 2-airlines agreement was concluded. The report states: 
It gives the company;-  that is, Ansett -  an Australia-wide franchise of about SO per cent of the industry revenue, which totals approximately £36m. 
It is now approximately $200m. The report continues: 
This franchise is for another IS years, and its value cannot be calculated. Nowhere else in the world is there such an arrangement which ensures civil aviation economic stability for such a period. Operating within this situation, and with efficient management controlling costs, reasonable profits are assured for this same period. 
Ansett Transport Industries is a company which could not operate without Government support. It is given half of the Government's airline business; it is given half of the mail contracts; and it is given access to capital acquisition at terms which would not be available if it were a private enterprise. All this is buttressed by the Commonwealth. I am not here to defend Ansett or to traduce TNT. I am here to draw attention to the fact that we have a situation which, to use the American term, is charged win a great deal of public interest. All we have heard from the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that the rights of the shareholders are protected. Have the shareholders been consulted in this matter? There is too much humbug about this sort of thing. What we have in this instance is a fly-by-night finance operation which has threatened, simply by taking one-quarter of the stock of a company, to eliminate that company and to take over its whole operation. 1 suggest that the public of Australia is becoming tired of this sort of thing. It is tired of the exercise of naked economic power, which somehow is defended in the name of private enterprise. Even the other company, Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd, has become successful only because it has used the infrastructure of roads and railways to do something which State rail systems would have been able to do for themselves if they had shown more initiative. Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and TNT between them have acquired economic assets of the magnitude of $240m. We are told that all that matters is the rights of shareholders, but surely what is significant is the national interest. When the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who was formerly the Attorney-General, introduced the Trade Practices Bill in 1965 he referred to the 1962 Barwick proposals which were contained in a White Paper and said that mergers in excess of £250,000 - that would now be $500,000 - were to be notified to the registrar and prevented if substantially reductive of competition. The Attorney-General at that time indicated that he did not want to leave the clause in those words, and in the source of his second reading speech he said: 
The Bill contains no provisions for the control of mergers or take-overs. The problem of controlling mergers and take-overs is one of great complexity. 
Nobody denies that. He continued, after a long preamble: 
The Government will, of course, keep a close watch for any indications that problems in this field are arising. 
Does anybody in Australia doubt that we have problems in this field and that we have had them now for a considerable number of years? Large parts of our food processing industries no longer are owned in Australia. The wine industry - an industry of the soil - is gradually disappearing into foreign hands. These are all back room operations. To my mind, a government which believes in private enterprise should not stand by and see this naked exercise of power, mainly by organisations which were not in this country 5 or 6 years ago. Today's edition of the 'Financial Review' mentions Philips First City Brandts Ltd which is acting as an assistant to TNT to enable it to swamp ATI. What a curious combination we find this operation with  Sir Ian  Potter on the board of TNT and his former firm advising Ansett what to do. Surely there are some standards in these matters. Surely there is some decency. There are times when the public should have a voice in matters of this kind. It is this that the Opposition has been asking for. 
The Ansett organisation would not have what it has today without the 2 airline policy of this Government, so does the Government intend to remain supine and say that what is being done is all fair and above board? To do so would be a travesty of anything that the Government claims to stand for. If the takeover of a small fruit shop by a fish shop were involved that might be fair enough, but what is involved here is an aggregation of transport in Australia. What justification is there for an amalgamation of these 2 undertakings which are engaged in entirely different aspects of the transport industry? Twothirds of the operations of Ansett are in airways whereas Thomas Nationwide Transport is involved mainly in road and rail transport. Both of these companies are successful. Neither is ailing. What guarantee have we, apart from the blandishments of  Sir Peter  Abeles in various documents, that everything will be better under the new order than it was under the old? Are people of this kind the only ones who are to have a say or to be permitted to make claims about the efficacy of an organisation of this kind? This is what is suggested. Surely in any capitalist economy where there are economic organisations with assets to the value of millions of dollars it should be acknowledged that no longer can the term 'private enterprise' be used in its ordinary sense. With an aggregation of assets of this magnitude the public interest must be considered. 
Surely if ever public interest were involved, it is involved with Ansett. Something should be done to stop this flybynight arrangement where, by stealth, by buying up, the shares of one organisation to a limited extent, nobody knowing whether they are to be owned locally or by foreign interests, we have a situation in which we are supposed to be pleased to wake up in the morning to find that there has been a takeover offer. In a situation of this kind there should be a cooling period, a period of substantial examination, when the claims of both sides could be made and listened to and when the claims of interests other than those directly involved could be used in rebuttal or in support. That is what we are asking for. This Government, in the last months of its life, has suddenly become repentant about what it should have done during the last 20 years, and certainly during the last 7 years, and now says that it will do those things in the next 7 months. That is sheer nonsense. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER &lt;Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on behalf of the Government might be said to have pressed all the panic buttons at once. 
I say it because I think it is worth saying. I repeat what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said in the House during the Budget debate in August of last year. He moved on behalf of the Opposition the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'The House condemns the Budget because (a) it breaks the Prime Minister's pledge to Parliament on taking office to bring into effect for 1971-72 a fundamental review of social services and of methods for adjusting them and, (b) it contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government and (c) it produces no programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security. 
Perhaps tonight we have seen the vanishing of the last skerrick of what was described as the Budget strategy. Months ago it was suggested, not only in this House but also outside it, as soon as the 2) per cent income tax levy was introduced that it was wrong and should be reversed. Belatedly it is now being done. It was suggested at the time of the Budget that there were some drop outs in the process of inflation, particularly social service recipients and those on fixed incomes. Again, belatedly, the Government has acknoweldged this and proposes now to give $1 that it could well have given months ago. There is something to be said for dating it back. When one looks at what the Treasurer describes as a sluggish economy and allowing for 
The Treasurer spoke of a sluggish trend in consumer spending. At least he seems to have ackowledged that the stimulus to economic activity in a community is soundness in consumer spending and that the business people do not respond in advance. They respond when they know that consumers will buy. The Treasurer has said that the Government will now allow a moderate increase in demand and I want to mention just 2 of the matters the Treasurer referred to. The  2i  per cent levy on income tax which is to be taken off as soon as the Government can introduce legislation will have the effect of injecting $12m into the economy between now and the end of June. The increases in pensions will inject Slim. I believe that the Treasurer is one who becomes bemused when it suits him by the magnitude of numbers. If it is suggested from this side of the House that we should be doing something about augmenting social services or a health system or something of that kind, the Government says: 'Where will the money come from?' Sometimes the Treasurer can make $100m in his mouth sound as though it is the wisdom of Solomon, but if it comes from the mouths of his opponents it is said to be the straw that breaks the camel's back. I draw his attention to something that "The Economist' said on 25th March 1972 when commenting on the British budget. The article is headed Here's that billion'. A billion dollars in the context of the British economy, sluggish as this one is, would be something like $2 50m in the context of the Australian economy. This is how the article begins:  a modern budget is a major political occasion . . . 
The Treasurer's first Budget was a disaster and has now been rewritten. The article continues: 
. an exercise in redistribution of a rather small part of the national income . . . 
Certainly when our Treasurer introduced his first Budget he gave little and now he is giving very little more. The article continues: 
. and nowadays also an arithmetical and economic guess. 
The last Budget ought to remove any doubts that by saying certain things in the month of August one can finally change the complexion of the economy for 12 months. That sort of approach is nonsense. I am glad to see in this speech tonight a reference to priorities. If anything has been wrong with this Government over the years it is - as I said this afternoon - that it is trying in the last 7 months of its existence to become repentant and to do the things it could have done certainly over the last 7 years and in many cases over the last 20 years. 
'Nonsense' says my friend. What about this great one, the inquiry into the tax system? The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  when he was the Treasurer - 1 forget how many Budgets back - talked about reforming the tax structure. But what has been done about it, since, except for the announcement now that the Government will set up a committee of inquiry? No terms of reference were announced and no idea was given as to how long the committee will take in its deliberations. Yet this statement is regarded as an economic statement. I think the House and the nation are becoming a little cynical, to say the least, about all the things that this Government is going to do now. There has been nothing whatever in the past to prevent the Government from doing these things if it had wanted to do them. When honourable members opposite see the results of a gallup poll this somehow seems to stir them. We claim to be a democratic community. Surely we do not increase pensions just because we think it is a good economic measure. Surely an increase in pensions is given for the sake of the recipients. This Government now seems to concede reluctantly that maybe wages are not the only element that is responsible for varying the trends in the economy. At long last it seems to acknowledge that spending power can be put quickly into the hands of people who will spend it and who will not hoard it. 
Another great statement that was made tonight was about the adjustment to section 26 (a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The Government listened to the views of 3 gentlemen from the stock exchanges of Australia. If any institutions in Australia need cleaning up internally they are the stock exchanges of Australia. 
They talked to the Government about the small investors. As one of my colleagues said, the small investors will probably be more worried about the losses they thought they could claim but will not now be able to claim than about any gains that have occurred in the last several months. I think this is about the fourth occasion on which the Treasurer has made statements such as this. The last one was as recent as 24th February, when he told us ponderously at about 6 o'clock that he wanted to make a statement about the economy. Tonight we had a similar occasion except that the Treasurer did not give us the 2 hours notice; he gave me approximately an hour's notice. He had to first take the statement to those who sit opposite for vetting. I hope that they are pleased with what has been done. 
I suppose that one can accept the crumbs that are given, but what has still not been grappled with in Australia are the underlying trends in the economy and the changes that are taking place, all the evidence of which exist but which the Government is doing nothing about. I took the opportunity recently to show the decline in the increase in employment in 1971 relative to what it had been in previous years. In that year the increase in total employment in Australia was 66,000 as against 167,000 in each of the 2 previous years. The figures for a later period show that the increase in 12 months from January to January had actually fallen from 66,000 to 39,000. It is no wonder that there is a decline in the totality of the economy or the absorptive capacity, if you like, which is reflected in these kinds of events and which this Government is now trying to remedy. It ought to be said that the Australian economy, if there were no changes in prices - and unfortunately that will not be the position this year because there will be . a change in the price level of something of the magnitude of 8 per cent - in order to absorb productive activity into the economy the Government would need to generate something like another 5 per cent of economic activity. That is allowing for productivity and absorption. The requirement at constant prices at the moment is something like $l,500m or $l,600m. 
Yet what did we hear tonight? We heard a statement supposedly to be praised because something which could have been done 6 months ago but which will be done now will add $12m and the action to relieve the plight of the pensioners, which has been so desperate for quite a while, will inject $llm. I suggest that there is no perspective on the part of this Government; nor is there any sense of purpose as far as the future economic destiny of Australia is concerned. Nothing that this Government will strive to do in the next 6 or 7 months is going to save it from the wrath of the electors. The trends are there and these sort of piffling measures will not make any very substantial difference. Do honourable members opposite think that people are so cheap that they can be bought for this kind of a price? The very attitude of the Government in regard to magnitude shows how little it understands what the fundamental problems are. If ever there were a time when people were concerned about quality as well as quantity now is that time. What sort of a lead are the people being given as far as quality is concerned? This Government is throwing out crumbs as though that is all it has to do to save itself. 
I think that the time has come for a change and what the people want in Australia now is a government that does have a sense of purpose; a government that does have a sense of destiny; a government that does have a faith in the creative ability of its own people if only they are given the chance. I thought that the Government would also have announced tonight the introduction of a national superannuation scheme and acknowledged that we owe a debt to those who have wrought in the years of their strength and that they should be provided for in the years of their decline. These people should not have to depend upon this kind of sordid political gesture a few months before an election to give them what is their birthright and what the tradition of this country entitles them to. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Giles) adjourned. 
I have consulted the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  and we have no objection to putting this Bill straight through because we think it provides for something which should have been done a long time ago. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
These measures arise primarily out of the meetings which were held between the Commonwealth and the States in February and form part of what the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  last night described as highlights in the Government's facing up to the problems of the economy. The Bills are of 2 kinds. The States Grants Bill 1972 is to provide further special assistance totalling $15m in 1971-72 and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1972 is to increase by $9.3m the capital grants payable to the States in 1971-72 as part of the works and housing programme for the year. These, like most of the belated actions of the Government, were held by honourable members opposite to be fundamental to the recovery of the economy. 
Again, as I tried to say last night, it seems to me that when the Government wants to it tries to make a great splash of what are relatively minor matters in the face of what are really fundamental problems. Of course, in a federal system one is confronted from time to time with the difficulties of reconciling what might be called 'function and finance'. I remember many years ago - perhaps more years than I would like to recall - when I was a student of economics and we were considering this question of CommonwealthState financial relations there used to be a doctrine that was summarised as the vicious principle'. The vicious principle was that it was wrong that one government should raise revenue and another government should spend it. At least in the Australian context that sort of doctrine is no longer tenable - no longer credible - because for the most part it is the Commonwealth that raises most of the revenue and, believe it or not, it is the States that spend most of it. In fact, as a rough kind of stab, of every $6 of taxation that is collected in Australia between the 3 levels of government - Commonwealth. State and local - $5 are collected by the Commonwealth Government, but when it comes to the spending and one takes out of the transactions what might be called the 'transfer items' - that is, the responsibility that the Commonwealth has for providing what the statistics describe as 'cash benefits to persons' which amounted in the latest Budget to something like $2,000m - and separates also expenditure on defence, which this year will be close to $ 1,200m, there is not any very systematic matching of finance to functions. When one comes to look at the great fields that the States are still called upon to fulfil - education being a principal one, health to a degree, public order, public transport, irrigation, public utilities like electricity and so on - and particularly when one looks at what might be called 'capital expenditure' as well as expenditure of an annual kind, the States plus the local authorities become more significant spenders than does the Commonwealth itself. This is, of course, what makes it rather difficult to enunciate any kind of doctrine. 
All the time we hear descriptions like co-operative federalism'. Perhaps I might quote one or 2 references from a quite interesting paper delivered recently - the 1970 Alfred Deakin Lecture by Professor Geoffrey Sawer, Dean of the Faculty of Law, Australian National University. The title of the lecture was 'Co-operative Federalism and Responsible Government in Australia'. I pay tribute to Professor Sawer who, many years ago, was a teacher of mine but in more recent times has become quite an authority in the field of constitutional law in Australia, particularly around the functionings of our Federal system. In this lecture he says: 
A mixture of constitutional and political considerations compels any Commonwealth government to proceed with a certain delicacy in asserting its dominance; 
He acknowledges the financial dominance of the Commonwealth but recognises the very reality that functions are not so dominantly placed in the direction of the Commonwealth and therefore a Commonwealth government must proceed with a certain delicacy in assessing its dominance. He says: 
. there is and must be a certain amount of genuine bargaining and compromise, and it is quite common for particular States to be able to go beyond bargaining to a stage of mild political blackmail. 
As the honourable member observes, we have seen much too much of it and we see it unfortunately not long before a particular State goes to an election. With all respect to the long preponderance of one sort of government here, the emphasis usually has been in the direction of giving largesse to a Liberal State government shortly before a State election. I am not suggesting that if there is a turn in the wheel of political fortune others may be more honest. All I am suggesting is that blackmail has been exercised. We saw an example of it this afternoon in the proposal to grant, I think, $10m to Queensland which, I understand, is on the eve of an election. 
It has had a bad drought but I think it has had a bad political drought too for a good number of years which has been even worse. As honourable members know, I am not one who usually indulges in personalities but if ever the history of the State of Queensland is written I doubt whether  Mr Bjelke  Petersen will rank large as one of the great Premiers of that State. However, he has been able to achieve this state of mild political blackmail by getting access recently to the Grants Commission for a sum of some $10m. I accept, as the honourable member said, that Queensland has had a drought. Just before the State election in Victoria a couple of years ago  Sir Henry  Bolte was able to get the nice round sum of $10m. On the other hand the Premier of South Australia - a non-Liberal Premier - complained that he had been hardly dealt with in the deliberations around this matter. 
 I think there is a certain amount of politics in the matter but if I may go on further about the difficulties of reconciling finance to function, Professor Sawer later in his lecture notes: 
From some recent answers to Parliamentary questions I extracted a list of 33 subjects on which regular conferences of Commonwealth and State Ministers, officials and associated experts and consequent co-operative or harmonised activities were taking place. 
Later be suggests: 
I think that the main danger of co-operative federalism is that it tends to erode responsible government. This is because the continuous process of negotiation and agreement which co-operation between governments requires can only be carried out by relatively small bodies of people, Ministers and officials; what they agree pretty well commits the parties and Parliaments, and the execution of the agreements is usually so divided between the respective governments that no one government, no one collection of Ministers and officials, can be held responsible for the whole of the activity in any one Parliament. 
1 was about to say sinister but I do not think that is the word. Perhaps I should refer to it as significant, at least for contemplation. In this kind of arena where we still claim to believe in responsible government these matters are of some significance. The 2 measures that we have before us arise out of the difficulties confronting the States. Even though we call ourselves States, in some respects we are a nation and a total economy. 
A large part of the first of these Bills which allocates $15m arises from the additional wage payments which the States have to make to meet wage adjustments. The second Bill, the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill, arises out of the niggling that goes on. The Commonwealth Government, as the only sovereign body when it comes to monetary controls and the only body thai can finance its own deficits, has been in the position in latter years of being able to pay for all of its capital works out of surplus revenues. Any surplus over and above that has been allocated to the States, but any loans that have had to be negotiated - loan raisings in Australia over recent years have averaged something like $500m to $600m annually - have been allocated to the State and semi-government authorities which have had to pay interest on the money so provided. This has been regarded by the Commonwealth as a tidy arrangement in that it can treat all States equally by hitting them with the same interest rate bludgeon. It has been regarded somehow as a kind of efficiency test that if they have to pay interest on the money they borrow they might not be quite as willing to accept it as they would be if the money were given free of interest. This has caused a certain amount of controversy in Commonwealth and State financial relationships. In aggregate it does not seem to me to amount to a great deal whether part of the money is financed from taxation or part of it from loans or part of it from the credit expansion capacity of the Commonwealth. After that how one scrambles up the interest allocation seems to me to be a matter of book-keeping rather than of function. Nevertheless, it does confuse the functional arrangements, and I suppose the place where the functional arrangements have become most confused in recent times has been at the third level of government in Australia - the level of local government. 
Local government tends at one end to have the kind of warm feeling that it is the level of government that the people understand, but it also at the national level has the reality of remoteness about it. We are inclined to talk about tocal government as being the grass roots of democracy and yet in most local government areas if the people were asked who their local councillors were there would be a certain amount of confusion. But whatever that position may be, the only source of revenue in any real sense available to local authorities is the local rating system which historically in Autralia has been associated with the value of property. This is not necessarily a very equitable way of financing the functions of the third level of government, it is for that reason that in recent times we have had a lot of discussion on the proposition that subventions of some kind should be made to local authorities. We are caught, this seems to me to be the central dilemma. Of the local authorities as they are established - they number something like 2,000 in aggregate throughout the whole of Australia - some are far too small to be sensible, and I think this is pretty true in the area of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  in Queensland, but they arise from an historical background. In some of the metropolitan areas what were once regional suburban boundaries have certainly become changed by the shift of population from the inner to the outer areas. 
However, local government still in essence is a creation of the State authorities. It gets whatever sovereignty it is supposed to have - sovereignty, I think, is less significant than is sometimes claimed - in my State at least, from what is called a Local 
Government Act. I think the legislation in other States is in similar terms. That is the constitutional nexus, but the political and socio-economic reality in Australia, for good or ill and much as we talk about decentralisation, is that the capital cities are growing faster in terms of the aggregation of population than are the areas outside them. The idea of shifting the population from the cities to some other areas is a noble aspiration, but as I said to one of my colleagues on the opposite front bench a few weeks ago, if the argument is whether Kevin Cairns or Frank Crean should leave Melbourne to go to Albury and Wodonga it does not become an easy matter to decide. He will say: 'You go', and I will say: 'I think you ought to go'. lt will not happen as smoothly as that, but it certainly will not happen at all unless some constructive attempt is made to bridge the problems. At least 1 am a democrat who believes that people count for more than cows, sheep or horses, and that numbers of people is the significant feature in democratic decisions. 
There is no doubt that the majority of people live in the 2 awful conurbations of Melbourne and Sydney which become more hideous day by day, as anybody who drives a motor car knows. The amount of money that has to be spent in the years ahead to improve the transport facilities and the more primitive needs such as sewerage in these cities, means that a great strain will be placed upon the existing methods of local financing from the local rates. In the years ahead, whoever is the government, some attempt has to be made to bridge this very real problem. Every time I visit one of our nicer country towns - there are some nice country towns as well as some pretty awful ones - I find they are at least pleasant places to live in, particularly at weekends. It is much more pleasant than motoring to some places of refuge around the metropolitan areas of Melbourne. One of the difficulties is that it is easy to work out cost in an accounting sense, such as the cost of a bridge or the cost of a road, but it is not so easy to work out the irksome effects of too many people on the roads that already exist or the inconvenience caused by not having enough bridges. There is some social accounting which is difficult and this is why I take a different view from what is sometimes these days glibly described as cost benefit analysis or benefit cost analysis whichever way one seems to look at it. I suppose that in an abstract sense we can consider whether it is cheaper to have one form of electricity distribution than another or we can compare the cost of constructing a dam in Queeusland with the cost of constructing a dam in Victoria. But I think there are many things that cannot be costed in this way. I think one of the most difficult things to cost is the social consequences of undue aggregations of people in the wrong places. How can this be translated into some sort of economic sense, in shifting people from where there are too many to where there are too few, 1 do not know. As I see it, this is the real problem that faces us. 
The Commonwealth, as all the figures indicate, is the dominant area financially, but it is still by no means the dominant area functionally. I still think that there has to be a great deal of shifting of functions from the Commonwealth and the States in the direction of local authorities because many of these things are better done in local areas - and better decided, if you like, in local conditions - than by one of the devices that have recently been adopted, which is called the matching grant. I call it the delicate thumb-screw. The Commonwealth, which has all the money and in some respects is able to squander money on some things, says to the States: 'We will give you $1 for $1'. In the case of universities the Commonwealth gives only 85c for each $1 spent by the States. What the Commonwealth does not seem to acknowledge is that it is easy to find $1 at the Commonwealth level, but the States and certainly the local authorities have a very hard choice to make because $1 spent in this direction means that $L less is available in another area. I feel that the Commonwealth is calling the tune in fields in which it does not really have a sensitive ear to determine whether the tune is being properly played. As 1 see it, this is one of the difficulties that face us in the years ahead in the adjudication of what Professor Sawer calls co-operative federalism. I think that everybody in the House believes that the federal system is here to stay for a long time, but certainly there have to be some changes in functions and more resilience as far as the provision of finance is concerned. 
The number of measures that come before this House annually, even after there has been a meeting of the Premiers and they thought they had a formula worked out, shows that all sorts of things can happen in the next 12 months and tend to distort the evenness of the formula which was thought to have been satisfactorily evolved. In no field is this more evident than in the field of local authorities. I hope that, whatever consideration is given in the months ahead to what are called constitutional conventions and attempts to alter the constitutional distributions and so on, the local authorities will not be overlooked. Whether we like it or not, there are more people in, let us say, the city of Melbourne than there are in 3 of the States combined. Sometimes this is what makes it difficult when we are trying to do things on a CommonwealthState level and overlooking the real responsibilities that reside in local areas. 
I do not know of any area in the world - and I have tried to read in this field, as most people have to do when they talk these days about ecology, pollution, conservation, the sensible use of natural resources and so on - which is an advanced society and which has been able to stop its cities growing faster than the rest of the community. I think that the country that is going to have the greatest problem and the greatest difficulty in the years ahead is Japan. I suppose that most of us watched as I did last Sunday night 'Weekend Magazine' on Channel 2. It was about Japan's coming summer. It appears that the most awful city in the world to live in during the summer months is Tokyo because of the pollution in the atmosphere due to industrial development. I think we are reaching this kind of margin of development in Australia, particularly around the 2 cities of Sydney and Melbourne. Sometimes when we try to make costings we think in terms of the old economic basis. I think we have to get around to some more sensible method of social accounting whereby we can count the various sorts of subsidies that are paid in the Australian community - the revealed subsidies - and match them with the kinds of concealed difficulties that are occurring. I think that this indicates to us what the problems ahead of us are. 
As I said in a speech last night, I think that in the future we have to be concerned just as much about the qualitative aspects of life and development as we have been concerned in the past about the quantitative aspects. Each of us likes to increase his quantitative share, but sometimes 2 motor cars to a family instead of one can add to the social cost and it is hardly worth having what is supposed to be the advantage of the second car. The same applies with a lot of gadgeteering and so on. I am one who doubts whether in the long run it will be of any great social advantage to Australia to have colour television. It may have advantages, but I doubt whether I would rank it very high in my scale of priorities, particularly when I think of what has been done with black and white television compared to what might have been done with it. A sensible usage of advanced technology and science certainly is one of the fundamental problems that confront us. I am sorry that these questions of Commonwealth-State relationships generally come up at the fag ends of debates as though they are of no significance. I think they are among the most important matters that confront this Parliament. 
I would like to advance a somewhat different view in relation to this matter. In my view, the Assistant Ministers are at this stage somewhat like Mohammed's coffin: They are somewhere between the realities of the situation and something that we have not quiet decided. I do not think anybody would say that to date the Assistant Ministers have played any very significant part in the deliberations of this Parliament. 
They hardly ever speak because nobody quite knows what is their role. 
No, they are not game to tell us. I submit that the whole question of Assistant Ministers should be referred back. I disagree somewhat with my friend the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who is a great one for asserting that Parliament should be the executive body of the nation. I do not believe that Parliament can be the executive body of the nation. I think that the Executive Government is quite clearly provided for in chapter  2  of the Constitution. Section  65  of the Constitution provides: 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides, the Ministers of State shall not exceed seven  in  number,- 
We have certainly varied that; I think the Ministers of State now number 27. Section 65 continues: and shall hold such offices as the Parliament prescribes, or, in the absence of provision, as the Governor-General directs. 
It seems to me that if we did concede some place for the Assistant Ministers - in my view, it has not yet been determined - perhaps an Assistant Minister should be able to do what is provided in clause (c) of the recommendation. However, there still is a very grey area as to what an Assistant Minister is, what he can do and what he cannot do. I submit that we need to look much more closely at this situation before we adopt clause (c) which states that an Assistant Minister should be entitled to take charge of a Bill. If it is acknowledged that Assistant Ministers are necessary because the ordinary Ministers cannot encompass all the business of their departments, that is fair enough but I do not think we have really decided that. I think that the Government embarked upon the appointment of Assistant Ministers without seriously considering the ramifications. 
It is all right for the Government to say that we agreed to the provision of Assistant Ministers by a vote of the House but, as everybody knows, a vote of the House simply means an unconditioned vote of the House. It was not a free vote; it was a Party vote. A free vote might decide that Assistant Ministers were necessary or that they were extraneous. I suggest that if we are to get anywhere in adjusting the Standing Orders of this Parliament, we should accept that the question of Assistant Ministers is a rather controversial area that could well be set aside for some time yet. There used to be other Assistant Ministers. Indeed, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  used to be known as the abominable no man. I do not mean that in any offensive sense, but this at least summed up the reality of the situation, namely, that when it came to a real decision, he could not make it. He was only a referee, as it were, between the claimant and the ultimate decision and nobody took very much notice of that decision if he thought he could get past it. It seems to me that this is what is involved here and I would suggest that this clause be deferred. In fact, I am not too sure whether the whole question of Assistant Ministers should not be deferred for further consideration. 
If I may differ- this being a non-party area - from my friend the honourable member for Wills, I do not believe that in a modern community 125 people can get anywhere by just voting on the merits of any issue. After all, politics in Australia is organised around the real existence of political parties. It is organised around recognition of the principle that whichever party obtains more than 50 per cent of the number of members has the right to govern, and that party cannot govern unless there is an executive body. The Government has 27 Ministers. The total number of members representing the Government parties is not much more than twice the number in the Ministry. Yet the Government, for technical reasons and because the weight of executive decisions is too great to be encompassed by the Ministry, has given some of the work to Assistant Ministers. I think this shows some deficiency in the real working of the system. I submit, with all respect, that the question of Assistant Ministers should be deferred. We ought to move for the adjournment of this clause and proceed with something else, otherwise we will not get anywhere. 
 1 support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Whilst I do not yet concede to being a patriarch I think I know the difference between a patriarch and a matriarch. I hope I am somewhere between the two. I have lived through the period from 1951 to 1971, which is a long period, during which I have seen petitions increase in number to such an extent that instead of being rareties they have become abominations, f still hope that there is some reality in the petition and that it is an earnest prayer. Sometimes I wonder whether the millions of people who must be praying night by night in deference to the terms of the petitions that they have presented are praying in a manner that the theologians would call effectually. I hope they are. But I sometimes wonder about it in terms of the reality of the procedure in this House. If 1 may relate ray colleague's amendment to a committee that exists in the Senate, the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, 1 presume that there are as many rules and ordinances made in this Parliament as there are petitions presented. I would suggest that if some systematisation is to be made with regard to petitions a committee such as that suggested by the honourable member for Riverina would be a workable proposition. 
The right to present a petition has quite a long history. One might say that a petition is the cry of despair of the citizen. I think that in many ways citizens are despairing more in 1972 than they have for a long time, and I think that this is one of the reasons why a large number of petitions are coming forward. Appendix B which is attached to this report breaks down the types of petitions which have been presented to the Parliament. After all, in the last few weeks one has heard read lo this House each day approximately 30 petitions relating to the same subject. Unless the House is going to do something about petitions, certainly it would save a lot of time if they were not read, because sometimes it takes half an hour or more each day to read them. 
As someone suggested this afternoon, many honourable members wail until petitions have been presented before they come in.o the chamber. If that is the reality of the situation, I believe that it would be much more sensible if, at the end of the day's proceedings, the  Clerk  were to say that that day he had received from specified members 17 petitions dealing with the Post Office, 7 petitions dealing with kangaroos and 5 petitions dealing with some other subject. At least, there would be no time wasted. But if a petition is to be regarded as having some virtue, I think that at least it ought to be put on a real plane, and this could be done by accepting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina. He gives the petition some place of honour. As I have said, a petition is the last despairing cry of the citizen, and as such it should be of some avail. 
I am pleased to note that my fri;nd the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  sees some sort of virtue in treating petitions in the way outlined in the amendment. 1 was a little surprised by my friend - I think I can call him my friend - the distinguished honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  who this afternoon spoke as though petitions were a waste of time. Petitions may be a waste of time but, with all respect to the honourable member, nobody puts his name on a petition unless he thinks that it will have some effect. If petitions are becoming ineffective, as I believe they are, then I think it behoves this House to restore to the petition the kind of honour that it is thought to have in a democratic system. This is why I believe that there is some merit in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina. He seeks to appoint a petitions committee, and I liken that petitions committee to the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee. 
In recent times 2 honourable members have tried to pour cold water upon particular petitions that have been presented to the House, but no petition can be received by the House unless it carries the certificate of the  Clerk.  I think that we place the  Clerk  in a position of dishonour if it is suggested that a petition has political overtones. I think that my colleague the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  suggested that he had become an organiser of petitions, but I do not think anybody believes that that is a dishonourable practice. The honourable member for North Sydney was all on side with petitions that were against the nationalisation of banking, but he does not necessarily favour petitions which seek to prevent the slaughter of kangaroos. If one has to be the judge of each particular petition, I suppose that it becomes a little bit tedious. But if we appointed a petitions committee, after some time that committee could evolve its own practices. It could say: 'We believe that the particular petition on pollution of the atmosphere is worthy of some consideration, and we recommend certain things about it'. I think that something could then be done about petitions, and that we would begin to separate the effective from the ineffective types of petition. 
All that a petition does is to acknowledge the difficulty facing the sort of society in which we live, with the conflicts and problems that are emerging, and perhaps to indicate that Parliament, in its present form and with its present committee arrangements, is not as efficient or effective as it ought to be. I do not see any venom or any kind of political opportunism in the amendment which my colleague has moved, and I hope that the House will give serious consideration to it. When petitions come before us they should be referred automatically to a petitions commitee, which would systematise them and say: 'We think that some of them are ephemeral or are serious but cannot be effectively dealt with by the existing mechanism, and others indicate serious opinions within the community that not all is well'. As I see it, this is all that is intended by the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina, and 1 hope that the House will support it. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What are the constituent items of the sum of $901m in 1961-62 and $l,771m in 1970-71 as shown in Statement No. 7 of the Budget Speech 1971-72 under the description 'Cash benefits to persons'. 
What percentage to gross national expenditure does each constituent item bear. 
What percentage of the total population was the recipient of (a) child endowment and (b) age pensions in 1961-62 and 1970-71, respectively. 
I desire to second the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  I do not want to say very much about it because L think he has eloquently covered the position. However, in view of the undoubted constitutional doubts in regard to this question, I think we at least should be furnished with some kind of legal opinion as to why it is that the Assistant Ministers are now legitimate. As I said the other evening the Assistant Ministers could be said to be like Mohammed's coffin - poised somewhere between the realities of parliamentary life and the doubts of the Constitution. I think that these sorts of things should be put beyond any reasonable doubt. I have no doubt that the Government has taken some advice on the matter and it should furnish us with the information that has been supplied. If one reads the Constitution it will be seen that quite often it mentions Ministers but it makes no mention whatever of Assistant Ministers. Up to date, the Assistant Ministers seem not to have played a very decisive part in events other than apparently relieving the burden of mail on the Ministers' tables. 
There has been some attempt made in the amendments to the Standing Orders to give Assistant Ministers a status in the House so that they may answer questions, present Bills and do that kind of thing. But I suggest that the legal grounds on which something new has been intruded into the Constitution should at least be presented to the House before it finally gives sanction to these strange new creatures. 
Mir CHIPP (Hotham- Minister for Customs and Excise) (11.8) - I was impressed with the description that my friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  gave of Assistant Ministers. He called them strange new creatures. I do not know whether they would appreciate that description but I am sure he meant nothing offensive by it. We do have an interesting situation now that after 3 days - not 3 whole days - of debate we have reached the end of this debate on Standing Orders and the House is debating that the amendments to the Standing Orders and the changes of practice adopted in paragraphs (a) and (b) be effective from and including the next sitting, which begins in August. However, at this point I am advised by the 

 Clerk that the next sitting would be tomorrow but that is not the point to which I wished to speak. Paragraphs (a) and (b) to which item (c) refers is that recommendations 1 to 10 contained in the report of the Standing Orders Committee be agreed to. What do recommendations 1 to 10 contain? Recommendations 1 to 6 contain nothing but references to Assistant Ministers and the House by a majority vote of 53 to 35 on 13th April 1972 accepted recommendations 1 to 6, all of which accept the concept of Assistant Ministers. Among those who voted with the ayes on that occasion were the honourable members for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The honourable member for Grayndler knows that I would be the last person in this House to indulge in party politicking, but I remind him that his own Leader on 13th April voted for the acceptance of the concept of Assistant Ministers, together with the other distinguished members of his Party I have just named. 
That the question be now put 
I ask for the indulgence of the House in order to ascertain whether honourable members opposite wish to vote on the gag as well as the issue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Daly's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
This measure, as the Minister assisting the Treasurer indicated, seeks the approval of the Parliament to the provision of a guarantee by the Commonwealth of a $US4.5m, or the Australian equivalent of S3. 8m, borrowing by the Administration of Papua New Guinea from the Asian Development Bank. The proceeds of the loan are for relending by the Administration to the Papua New Guinea Development Bank, and will meet the foreign currency component of a number of development projects financed by that Bank in Papua New Guinea over the next 3 years. The Opposition supports the measure, particularly because the loan is in what are described as soft loan terms rather than hard; that is, the money is to be available to the Administration of Papua New Guinea at a rate of only 3 per cent, which is very low by today's standards. 
I think that some time ago when we were contemplating a loan from the International Bank to the Development Bank, in somewhat similar circumstances, the rate that was quoted for the loan was somewhere between 7 per cent and 8 per cent. I pointed out then the difficulty of a relatively undeveloped country such as Papua New Guinea being able to finance development when there was an interest component of somewhere in excess of 7 per cent. 
The Minister, in introducing the measure, said that the loan is the first that the Asian Development Bank has made to the Administration since the admission of Papua New Guinea to membership of the Asian Development Bank in April 1971. My colleague, the Leader of the Opposition, as far back as 1966 put on notice a question to the then Minister for External Affairs and when he received a reply it was from the then Acting Minister, now  Sir John  McEwen.  Mr Whitlam  had asked: 
Is it necessary to amend the terms of reference of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East to include the Territory of Papua and New Guinea before the Asian Development Bank can assist the Territory? 
Why did Australia agree to the terms of reference being amended in 1963 to include only continental Australia? 
What steps has Australia taken to have the Territory now included in the terms of reference? 
The reply to his question was: 
Yes. 
When Australia became a regional member of E.C.A.F.E. in 1963, Australia's external territories were not brought within the geographical scope of E.C.A.F.E. The decision to seek membership for continental Australia only was taken in the light of the political and economic progress of Australia's external territories at that time. 
The matter is currently under consideration. 
That merely serves to indicate that as recently as September 1966 there seemed to be no indication that what might be called self-government for Papua New Guinea was likely in the foreseeable future. When a further question was put on notice as recently as 1970 there still had not been much action taken.  Mr Whitlam  asked  Mr McMahon,  then Minister for External 
Affairs, question No. 155 reported on page 1019 of Hansard on 9th April 1970. He asked: 
What steps have been taken since his predecessor's answer to me on 28 May 1969 (Hansard, page 2440) to effectuate the wish expressed by the Minister for External Territories that the Territory of Papua and New Guinea become an associate member of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East. . . . 
The answer given was: 
Following further consideration of this question by the Government and consultations with the Administrator's Executive Council, in which it expressed agreement, steps have been initiated to bring before the 26th Session of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East, meeting in Bangkok 14th-27th April, a request for the inclusion of the Territory as an Associate Member of the Commission. When this is achieved, application will be made on behalf of the Territory for membership of the Asian Development Bank. 
It was a comparatively long process before Papua New Guinea became a separate member and, therefore, it is not surprising that this should be the first loan when Papua New Guinea has been so recently a member of the Bank. However, I would like to say one or two things about the potential for development and what appears to be the relatively slow rate of economic development in Papua New Guinea and the fact that to some extent the economy of Papua New Guinea seems to be becoming afflicted with some of the problems flowing from Australia. I would like to refer to the quarterly statistical bulletin of the Reserve Bank of Australia issued in Port Moresby for the December 1971 quarter. Among other things it points to a comparatively rapid rate of inflation occurring in Papua New Guinea which in that year was running at something like 12 per cent. Of course, inflation at that rate can have very serious implications for the development of that economy. It is still an economy that is basically a subsistence economy although it runs the great danger of becoming what is sometimes described as a dual or triple economy, where there is a kind of European expatriate superstructure through which Papua New Guinea would tend to get somewhere in the middle a semi-industrial development. However, basically the totality of the economy is still mainly of a subsistence nature. 
The bulletin does contain estimates of the national income for the whole economy of Papua New Guinea and to some extent they typify what I have been trying to describe. What we describe as the gross national product at factor cost in the case of Papua New Guinea is $545m. When one takes into account that this is the gross national product for a population of something like 3 million people it gives some indication of the relative or comparative poverty of this economy. When it is broken down it appears that something like onethird of the gross national product comes from the single item 'Wages, Salaries and Supplements', which presumably includes the European as well as the insipient or developing industrial economy. However, what is described as the subsistence sector, although it is the income for something over 95 per cent of the total population of Papua New Guinea, is only about onethird of the sum I have quoted. This raises some very difficult problems for the future development of Papua New Guinea. At least the problem in the future of raising the standards there will be concerned more with the development of the subsistence part than perhaps with the development of the industrial or other aspects of the economy. 
What one finds disturbing in some of these figures is the slow rate at which growth is taking place in some aspects of the economy. Even in this area of the Development Bank the loans and advances in 1969- 70 were $12.2m. In 1971-72,  2i  years later because the figures go right up until November 1972, the level of advances is only $15.7m. This indicates the slow rate of growth in the provision of infrastructure and other things so necessary for the development of that economy. From other statements in this document it can be seen that personal consumption expenditure in 1970-71 is estimated to have been about $21 6m compared with the previous year's level of about $180m, an increase of 20 per cent. However, one should take into account the fact that a large part of that is going to the non-subsistence part of the economy and that it has been affected by inflation of something like 12 per cent while as in some other statistics, what appears to be growth in essence is not really growth at all. 
The other problem that faces Papua New Guinea is the large imbalance in trade. At the moment on an annual basis there is a deficiency of the order of $100m annually in the balance of trade, this difference being between exports and imports. The exports are comparatively static. I will say something in a moment to show why that is. But overall there was an adverse balance of trade on current account for 1969-70 of $159m. As with the Australian adverse balance of trade, to some extent that is offset by the inflow of foreign capital, but a large part of the foreign capital which flows into Papua New Guinea comes from Australia. This is a place in which Australia is an investor rather than a place that is only invested in, as overall Australia is, with the majority of capital investment coming from overseas. 
But of course some serious implications are involved for the future. I still do not think that we in Australia realise sufficiently what our great obligations to this area are. We know that Papua New Guinea is striving for something that is described as self government. But when, as the statistics show, well over half of what is described as government revenue in Papua New Guinea does not come from taxes raised in the Territory but comes from the Treasury in Australia, in some respects self government has a peculiar meaning. I believe that in the foreseeable future Australia's contribution to this area will have to be more rather than less. One of the difficulties that Papua New Guinea faces with its exports is that for a considerable period of time it will have to rely for export income on such commodities as cocoa, coffee and tea. These are products which the rest of the world seems to have plenty of already. Unfortunately they are products in relation to which there are serious fluctuations in what are called the terms of trade. A Reserve Bank bulletin which I have provides some interesting information about both the world cocoa scene and the situation in Papua New Guinea in particular. Page 4 of the document states: 
The price in London of Ghana cocoa has been falling steadily since mid August and it is now down to around £Stg190 per thousand kilos, £Stg90 less than a year ago. The outlook for prices during 1972 is pessimistic. 
Of course we appreciate the difficulties that are experienced in Australia when the price of wool falls. At least we are no longer as dependent on that one commodity for export income as we were, although I do not by any means want to underestimate the significance that wool still has. But if we had faced a drop of about 50 per cent in the price of wool, which is what occurred with cocoa, we would be disturbed about our balance of trade if we were as dependent on wool exports as we were, say, 10 years ago. The same position as applies to cocoa applies to coffee. There have been falls in the price which the crop brings. Other commodities such as rubber and tea suffer from the same difficulty. 
These circumstances highlight the need to evolve some better trade arrangements for the Territory's primary products. For a manufactured product it is easy enough to determine on an accounting basis what are the costs of production and thereby determine what is a reasonable price to charge for the product. The same sort of criteria do not apply to primary products, although there is no doubt that primary products have costs of production just as other products do, but their prices, particularly when they enter into the export field, are not subject to very much determination on the part of the country that produces them; the manipulation tends to be done by those who buy. It seems that the buyers are much more strongly organised than are those who sell. I would think that Australia, through its membership of deliberative bodies concerned with matters of trade, should try to assist in getting better terms for the sale of primary products, particularly the sale of what are called tropical products. Most of what Papua New Guinea is likely to produce in the future falls within the category of tropical products. 
Fortunately no longer is there quite the exuberance that was once evident in people propounding the view that all developing countries should develop industrially rather than furthering agricultural and primary production. That countries need not necessarily develop in this way is one of the lessons that was learnt with difficulty some years ago. Nevertheless it seems sometimes that in Australia, at least in our attitude to New Guinea, we tend to fall into the error of thinking that the greatest assistance we can give to Papua New Guinea is in building up its industries. Of course, the most recent example of this thinking has been manifested in the Bougainville copper project. Again the Reserve Bank statistics indicate some quite serious dislocations that have taken place in the Papua New Guinea economy by reason of the rather rapid acceleration of the Bougainville development and subsequently the rapid decline in that development. These dislocations are reflected in some figures shown an page 3 of the Reserve Bank bulletin to which I have already referred. The value of new building approvals during the September 1971 quarter are shown as being $4.4m. Again I indicate how small that figure is for a country with a population of about 3 million. That figure of $4. 4m represented a decline of 8 per cent on the June 1971 quarter levels and was 37 per cent below the levels of the same period for the preceding year. Of course the preceding year was the year during which the acceleration of the Bougainville project . and the construction work associated with the development had taken place. When the decline in the rate of development came it dealt a rather serious backlash to the stability of the total economy. 
I draw attention also to some remarks contained in a publication entitled 'Quarterly Economic Review' published by the Economist Intelligence Unit. The issue to which I refer is entitled 'Australia, Papua, New Guinea No. 4 - 1971'. It was published in December 1971 so its statistics are quite recent. On page 17 under the heading The Political Scene' some reflections are made upon what might happen at the House of Assembly election. Of course, since the document was written the election has taken place. The document goes on to state: 
As the country prepares to go to the polls in February-March it is clear that the result of the election is an extremely hazardous forecasting exercise. The great unknown is the electorate's reoction to the new phenomenon of party politics, since it is new to the polls. 
The only party which could conceivably gain a working majority unaided is the United party, which holds 45 seats in the old 94-member house and is seeking 60 in the new 107-seat version. A United party victory would see the retention in parliament of the creeping gradualism approach to political change and solid support for the Australian administering power. Economically, the United party encourages maximum growth through unrestrained capital inflow tempered by a small degree of selective economic nationalism in the transport field. 
It goes on to note: 
The opposition radical Pangu Pati, although unable to gain a majority, may gather enough supporters to be the senior partner in a governing coalition. Pangu's policy, highly nationalistic, directs itself more at the distribution of income than at growth, and could be a strong deterrent to continuing foreign investment. 
I do not quite know what is meant by that. But I hope that the Australian Government wil not withdraw any of the succour that it gives to Papua New Guinea because, like the authors of the publication which I have just read, it may not like the Pangu Pati as the government. From what was said on today's news I understand that a Pangu dominated combination has finally emerged as the government of Papua New Guinea and that it is to be sworn in today. The article goes on to state: 
The outcome of the election is of vital importance to the economy, since the confidence of both existing and potential businessmen is dependent upon it. The capital-hungry economy can ill afford severe jolts to the confidence of any sources of capital in its present embryonic, yet highly expansionary, stage. 
One of the risks that one runs in encouraging self-government is that one might not always get the kind of result that one would like. Business or foreign investment should not go into Papua New Guinea on the basis of liking certain kinds of political groups because considerable fluctuations can take place. 
I know that there was a lot of controversy around the Bougainville development in Papua New Guinea. This development certainly brings a substantially new industry to that area. But it seems to me that in many cases it is hard to know how much benefit really goes to what are called the indigenes and how much really is return on investment and paid to those who have invested. I do not know what kind of regulatory processes exist to ensure that there is a fair balance in that development. I have merely pointed out that there is no doubt that largescale development causes some kinds of problems in regard to growth and an unevenness of economic development. 
It has been said also that this type of development causes problems while it is taking place and dislocations when the growth begins to run down. For all these reasons I think that Australia and Aus.talians ought to be much more aware than they are of the very serious problems that face us in assisting an area which in many respects is almost still the most primitive country in the world. 1 think that the area geographically is about twice the size of Victoria and has a population which is greater than that of any State of Australia, with the exception of New South Wales and Victoria. That is the magnitude of the problem. 
The figures indicate that the per capita standard is less than $Ausl00. We have a problem of this magnitude very close to us and I think that this behoves us perhaps to take more seriously the question of economic development in Papua New Guinea. Recently I obtained from that very useful service in the Library a list of articles which one can obtain if one is interested. One of the articles is an extract taken recently from the State Department's Bulletin on 'Institutional Problems in the Developing Countries'. The article contains an address delivered by  Mr John  A. Hannah, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development. In view of the debate that concluded a few minutes ago in this House I think that the words contained in the article at least are salutary for Australia as well as for the Americans to whom the speech was primarily addressed.  Mr Hannah  said: 
There can be no assured peace for Americans unless we join the other developed nations of the world in a continuing effort to develop a stable world order. We cannot ask ourselves where the United States will be in the next few decades without asking where the world will be. 
I submit that the same kind of thing applies as far as Australia is concerned, that we cannot be concerned only with our own internal growth in the next 10 or 15 years without paying some consideration also to what the growth of Papua New Guinea is going to be in the years ahead. I think it is a pity that more attention is not devoted in this House to debates on Papua New Guinea. Debates on this matter generally come on at all sorts of odd hours, to fill in when nothing else is about and when no-one is particularly enthusiastic about participating in them. This is quite a serious omission. I hope that at least we will get a greater sense of responsibility in the future to this area which, after all, is our nearest neighbour and which we are assisting to what is sometimes rather loosely described as self-determination. 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. He will be aware that statistics are published concerning what is called the labour force and the relationship which the civilian population aged 15 years and over - the potential labour force - bears to the actual labour force. I ask: Is he aware that according to the latest issue of these statistics published early this year and giving the position at August 1971, the time of the disastrous Budget, what the Commonwealth Statistician calls the 'participation rate' in the labour force has declined in respect of both males and females and that on a seasonally adjusted basis these trends ought to have been evident from the beginning of 1971? Does the Minister agree that these trends are still continuing and are confirmed in the latest issue of 'Employed Wage and Salary Earners' which shows that from February 1971 to February 1972 total employment grew by only 27,000 despite a potential growth in the labour force of nearly 200,000? Does he believe that there is anything to indicate a lessening of the disposition of males and females to seek gainful and socially productive employment or has there been a lessening of the absorptive capacity of the economy for total employment? Finally, if the latter is the case, why does he not persuade his colleagues the Prime Minister and the Treasurer to call a high level conference of representatives of labour and industry to discuss what appear to be significant structural problems in the economy? 
Basically, the purpose of these Bills is simply to convert into metric equivalents the various quantities and weights and measures that come within the jurisdiction of the Minister for Customs and Excise. Traditionally we operate under the imperial system in which lengths are measured in inches, feet and yards. I do not think that we have too many miles within the jurisdiction of the Minister. Similarly, quantities are expressed in ounces, pounds and tons, and we have the rather odd unit of the gallon which will be converted to a litre. These are the kinds of things that are embraced by these measures. We are not altering the law; we are simply converting the various measures. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said:  1 can assure honourable members that where rounding off has been necessary, cure has been taken to ensure that  neither  the public nor industry will be disadvantaged by any variation in absolute duty collections. Overall in fact the changes will represent a very slight reduction in Commonwealth excise receipts - approximately $30,000 in a full year or, expressed another way, a reduction of 0.003 per cent. 
I think that that statement is fair enough. We are trying to get the nearest equivalent. The Minister gave one or two examples. For instance, he said that one gallon converts to 4.54609 litres. There we are getting into the realms of 5 and 6 places of decimals. This is certainly much different from the currency conversion which was relatively simple. The only problem there was the 5 over 6 or the 10 over 12. But here, whilst we say that a kilogramme is equivalent to 2.2 lb, it is not exactly 2.2 lb. Nor is a kilometre exactly five-eighths of a mile. The first annual report of the Metric Conversion Board, which is the only issue, says that 1972 is seen as a year of increasing public awareness and involvement. At least the Minister and his Department have got off the mark early. As he pointed out, about 90 per cent of world trade is conducted in terms of the metric system and we would be foolish to delay the conversion very much longer. 
Recently most honourable members received a document called the 'Backgrounder' which is published by the information service of the British High Commission. It was dated 28th March and con tained an article headed 'British White Paper on Metrication'. It indicated - I agree with this - that the advantages of the metric system far outweigh any cost that may be attached to it. This document and the report of the Metric Conversion Board say that it will be several years before we finally get this scheme off the ground, lt is a much more comprehensive scheme than the decimal currency one was because there are so many things that have to be changed. Some changes have already been made. As all honourable members know, medicines are now calculated in grammes and milligrammes and medicine glasses are calibrated in accordance with the metric system. Recently 1 heard someone say that he had a high temperature. I think it was said to be 45 degrees Centigrade. As we all know, the old figure for a high temperature used to be about 103 degrees. It is going to take us some time to become adjusted to all these sorts of things. The report indicates that it is hoped to get the school system on metric calculations operating during 1973. I notice that the British paper is a little more conservative than that. The British paper suggests that teaching in the imperial system is expected to continue for some time as a working knowledge of these units in everyday life will be needed over some years. I suggest that that is a more realistic appraisal of the situation than suddenly to base our mathematics in schools on the metric system in 1973. There are a lot of loose ends to be tied. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise took the opportunity in his speech to give a very interesting aside about the determination of proof figures in relation to spirits and I am sure that it blew a lot of illusions held by some people, particularly Queenslanders, who refer to 100 per cent proof rum. Apparently the proof figure has been a fraud upon the public because what appears to be 100 per cent is only somewhere between 0 and 175. The system provides a scale of 0 to 175 in which 0 is pure water and 175 is pure alcohol, so that what is described as 50 per cent proof or 100 per cent proof is very far from being more alcohol than water. I suppose that it is wise that that is the case because there are certain dangers in drinking too much alcohol too quickly. I am sure that nowa- days we have better means of calculating proof figures than by using the gunpowder test. However, it was an interesting aside. 
There are one or two matters in relation to these Bills that I wish to raise, although perhaps they are not quite relevant to the particular matters under consideration. I was very impressed by the amount of work that has been done in Australia, as indicated in this first report of the Metric Conversion Board. I pay tribute to the  Chairman  of the Board and his Committee for the zealous way in which they are going ahead to facilitate the conversion to the sole use of the metric system of weights and measures with the aim that this should be substantially completed by the end of 1979. That is still a long way off and that is why it would seem to me that perhaps we are starting a little soon in converting completely to the metric system in our schools 
In its report, the Metric Conversion Board listed conclusions of the valuable report of the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures. It is interesting to find that the Senate is becoming useful rather than merely obstructive. One of the conclusions of the Senate Committee was: 
About 90 per cent of the world's population already use metric measurement and this use is increasing. 
This of course is much more so in international trade as compared with internal operations. I suppose that if we had very little international trade it would not matter much whether we calculated our monetary measures in terms of cowrie shells or something else. I noted the other day that Singapore will no longer handle documents unless they are expressed in terms of the metric system and therefore the Minister is wise to be moving quickly in this field. Another conclusion of the Senate Committee was: 
About 75 per cent of world trade is carried out in metric terms. Some 70 per cent of Australia's export trade is to countries using or converting to metric weights and measures. This proportion will increase as Australia's trade with Japan and South East Asian countries grows. 
Of course, that is what is happening. Another conclusion was: 
A metric system would improve the teaching of mathematics and science, reduce errors and save time. 
I think that this will be so but I am sure that we will still have errors and we still occasionally will waste time. Another conclusion of the Senate Committee was: 
It would provide an opportunity, to improve industrial and manufacturing efficiency by rationalising existing practices and reducing unnecessary varieties in sizes and components. 
It is to be hoped that we will achieve some degree of standardisation in the industrial field, particularly in the building industry. I recently read a document from the building industry indicating that it hoped to convert quickly to metric units. Another conclusion of the Senate Committee was: 
Introduction of a metric system was widely regarded as a natural consequence of Australia's earlier conversion to decimal currency. The full advantages of decimal currency would not be experienced until decimal weights and measures were also used. 
I think that is a little high kite flying but nevertheless, I suppose mathematics will be somewhat simpler when we are using metric weights and measures as well as the decimal currency. 1 congratulate the Minister for Customs and Excise on moving early in this field because I think he acknowledges that, as the Senate Committee rightly pointed out, in the international field Australia is at some disadvantage when it quotes in the imperial system rather than the metric system. The Opposition offers no objection to the passage of these Bills. They are being dealt with together because they relate to the same matters. I thank the Minister for the way in which he introduced these Bills and also for the sorts of examples he gave as to the real savings that it is hoped will follow the introduction of these measures. 
The Bill before us provides for a payment to the State of Queensland, under section 96 of the Constitution, through the mechanism of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. It makes Queensland the third recipient of assistance in this way. At one stage recently Tasmania was the only survivor from the earlier days, but as a result of a Premiers Conference held some 2 years ago, South Australia again became the recipient of assistance in this way. Now Queensland, as a result of suggestions made at a recent Premiers Conference, also has applied to receive assistance in this way. It is proposed to give Queensland assistance of the magnitude of $9m. 
A short special report by the Commonwealth Grants Commission regarding the request for assistance by Queensland was tabled the other evening. I must pay a tribute to the Commission for the quality of its annual reports which contain a great deal of useful information about the functioning of our federal system, as far as Commonwealth-State relations are concerned. Obviously this latest report was prepared fairly hastily but, nevertheless, it raises one or two matters of some significance. Paragraph 4 on page 5 of the document states: 
The arrangements made at the Premiers Conference in June 1970 for payment of an additional grant of $2 per capita to New South Wales and 
Victoria in each of the ensuing 5 years. Queensland stated that 'this obviously affects the standard of comparison and caused the then Prime Minister to invite any State that felt it was injuriously affected by that decision to go to the Grants Commission'. It submitted, however, that Queensland's needs 'go beyond the payment of a grant of this magnitude'. 
Queensland indicated a number of disabilities that it felt it had to endure, and stated that because of the vastness of the State and the dispersement of the population it was more costly to provide at very remote points services, such as the railway service, the police service and the hospital system. On the other hand, in rebuttal the Commonwealth pointed to a number of areas in which it believed that the State could have raised more revenue for itself than it did. One matter that seemed to me to be of some significance raises certain basic problems. It refers to the utilisation of natural resources. Paragraph 24 on page 11 of the Grants Commission's report states: 
The Commonwealth Treasury suggested that the value of mining output might give some indication of capacity to raise mining royalties. This would suggest that Queensland's capacity is above standard: and as the royalties collected per head of population in Queensland are below the average per capita for the standard States it would appear that Queensland makes a relatively low effort in this field. 
Sometimes I think that in some respects the States, with a certain amount of justification, complain a lot about the constitutional responsibilities which they are still asked to bear, and this is true in such significant fields as education, health, public transport, irrigation, electricity generation and so on. They claim that they have to bear these responsibilities, which is so, and that they lack the resources, both in terms of annual grants and capital grants, to make the necessary expansion that the increasing population demands. Often, the increase in popolation is the direct result of Commonwealth policies, particularly with regard to immigration. However, on the other hand, sometimes the States seem to overlook the fact that they have certain sources of revenue which might be successfully exploited, but which are not. 
I know that it is easy not to impose taxes. You raise nobody's ire if you do not impose taxes, but you certainly create a lot of disturbances if you do impose taxes. In some respects the States have not been as venturesome as they might have been, par ticularly as regards adopting a sensible policy of taxation on land. Whatever can be said sometimes about a particular company establishing itself in one State rather than in another because particular inducements are held out, land cannot be shifted from one State to another. If a certain population is working in a particular State, it wants to acquire land for residential purposes in that State. It is no good saying to people who live in Melbourne that land is cheaper in Perth. That is not a negotiable sort of a proposition. 
What has happened recently is that, because States have not exerted much initiative in land development, there has been an acceleration of land values both in the metropolitan areas and in the provincial cities, and even sometimes in some of the country towns. This is something about which the States, with a little more initiative, could have done a lot more themselves. I think that quite a large amount of unearned increment has gone to land speculators simply because the States have claimed that they have not had enough ready capital to regulate the thing themselves. I have always felt that when a State, such as Victoria with the resources that are available to it, say, through an organisation like its own State Savings Bank, claims that it cannot mobilise enough capital to acquire land for the State on reasonable terms, it is not showing initiative at all. Equally, I believe that when we come to the development of natural resources, such as iron ore in the case of Western Australian and coal, uranium, copper and so on in the case of Queensland, the States have let off very lightly those who wanted to exploit the development of the minerals. 
After all, in one sense minerals are under the ground; they are on Crown property, to start with. Yet we seem to ask for very low royalties for the development of the minerals. We somehow seem to think that those who exploit the minerals are doing a great service. We are so pleased that they are taking the minerals out of the gound that we do not impose reasonable royalties. I think that this is what was hinted at in paragraph 24 of the Grants Commission's report. Queensland, in particular, perhaps could have demanded a higher charge for the royalties for the development of coal and other natural resources within its boundaries. I know that these things can be arguable and that there is a certain amount of bargaining power. I feel that the same applies with respect to foreign investment. No foreigner invests in Australia unless he thinks there is something in it for him. On the other hand Australia should not welcome development unless it thinks there is something in it for Australia. At least there is a bargaining area with advantages each way. I think that we have sold out too easily to those who want to invest in view of the very real powers that the country which owns the natural resources has by the mere existence of those resources. These are the kinds of things we must be careful about in the future. 
In some respects we seem to have wanted to welcome investment, internal or external, on any terms. We have been glad to have it without asking that it should pay a reasonable rent, reasonable royalty or reasonable price for utilising what is really the public domain. Be that as it may. the Commonwealth Grants Commission made no very firm decisions on some of the fundamental problems that were raised. It realised that Queensland, to an extent, had a case. All that has been done here is to pay what is called a preliminary grant and to leave the final grant to be assessed later in the year. It hopes to find answers to some of the unanswered questions in the meantime. 
That is so. All I am suggesting is that this is the first hit - the first tentative approach. I appreciate the difficulties. Nevertheless there have been suggestions that the scope of the Commonwealth Grants Commission should be extended. My own Leader has suggested that greater use could be made of the methods and mechanisms of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I think that if this is to be done both the staffing of that organisation and its standards of assessments will need to be greatly refined. In the long run, of course, whatever recommendation is made by the Commission has to come before this Parliament for final ratification. But the fact that Queensland, an expanding State, should have to come to this kind of body for a sum as small as $1Om indicates that we still have not successfully arrived at adequate mechanisms for adjusting the disparities between the financial dominance of the Commonwealth and the functional responsibilities of the States. As has so often been suggested, in this arrangement the poor relation - the local authorities -  is  sometimes neglected altogether. I do not want to go too much into this aspect tonight because I argued about it a week or so ago and, as I said, I did not really want to talk about this tonight but the task has been thrust upon me circumstantially. Nevertheless, what we have before us tonight is indicative of the unsatisfactory arrangements that still prevail for equating financial dominance on the one hand and financial responsibility on the other hand. 
At present there is some talk of a convention of States and the Commonwealth. My Leader again has suggested that it would be incomplete unless local authorities also were invited into the discussions to try to work out some more satisfactory pattern in the future for doing the kinds of things that need to be done in order to develop the Commonwealth. Sometimes we lose sight of the fact that in many respects Commonwealth, State and local authorities are fairly arbitrary divisions of functional responsibility, but at each level there are people represented in the social equation. As has been said here over and over again, whether we like it or not the majority of people in Australia still are contained within the capital cities of Australia. The census figures that have been published within the last few weeks show that the capital cities have grown faster in terms of population since the last census than has the rest of the Commonwealth. At least in a democratic society we have some responsibility to look after the needs of people. 
The means of financing the needs of the citizens within the boundaries of local governing bodies are scarcely adequate any more. We are still tied to a rather curious system of property rating which has a lot of inequities in its application. In the rural areas there certainly are a lot of real problems concerning land values as they affect actual farming. One of the matters that was pointed out in this special report in relation to Queensland was that an examination of probate or estate duties revealed that Queensland was not quite as wealthy comparatively with the other States per capita as sometimes was suggested.I would suggest that that is a fairly rough index of relative prosperity. 
At the moment there is much discussion about the inequity of what rather loosely are described as probate and estate duties. It seems that in most cases what causes the most injustice is not the operation of the Commonwealth Government in this field but the operation of the States. The impact on rural properties of these duties is the difficult problem. Sometimes these strands should be separated. Some 2 years agoI pointed out, when we were discussing an amendment relative to Commonwealth probate duty, that it would not matter greatly if the Commonwealth vacated this field altogether. I think it yields about $50m to $60m in revenue, which is pretty insignificant in terms of total revenues amounting to almost $9,000m. I drew attention to the fact that in Great Britain, when they were assessing properties other than suburban properties, they gave a total exemption to rural properties because they realised there were some difficulties - that there could be a system that virtually forced the breaking up of smaller farms which forced good farmers off the land and tended to aggregate land in the hands of large scale developers of a company kind. I think this is a real difficulty in most Australian States. I would hope that some of this silly, sentimental stuff about it being a Federal tax, which is wrong, was clarified. After all, a member in another place got there by complaining about these duties. The real problem that he is trying to solve will not be solved in this Parliament. It will be solved in the various State parliaments. Yet this is the curious kind of emotional atmosphere that sometimes one can build around a problem of this kind. 
His problem is solved for 6 years. I think that he is here for 6 years and his views on everything else, I suppose, do not matter at all. But the one matter that he came here for really is not in the province of this place to resolve. I hope that isone of the things that will be discussed at this convention, if it ever assembles. 
As I have said, 1 had not wanted to speak this evening. The hour is 11 o'clock. The Opposition offers no objection to this payment to the State of Queensland, but simply points out that this sort of thing ought not to be happening if we had more satisfactory means of equating finance to function in our federal system. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
These Bills are what are described as Supplementary Estimates. They relate to amounts not provided for in the original Budget arrangements for expenditures in 1971-72. They concern matters that have emerged during the year and, of course, like any other parliamentary appropriation, have to be sanctioned in this House before they can be authorised. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The two measures before the House come in the category of what are called supplementary estimates. They are amounts that were not foreseen when the Budget was drawn, or expenditures that have been incurred because of a change of circumstance. I want to cite one or two examples to indicate the differing reasons why these things have happened. On this occasion the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has given the House a new document which is called 'Treasury Information Paper'. It shows some savings that have occurred in the original appropriations made. One or two of them are savings as a result of a change of circumstance rather than savings in the sense of some economies. 
At page 19 the document deals with migration. It shows that there will be a saving of $1,736,000 in the special passage assisted programme. Instead of spending $7,835,000, apparently we will spend only about $6m. The item 'Non-British Migration Under Agreements and Arrangements with European Countries' shows a saving of $1,076,000 against an original estimated expenditure of $6,652,000. The savings have occurred simply because migrants are not coming to these shores as freely as was expected at the beginning of the year. One reason for this is the change in economic circumstances that has taken place in Australia since the Budget was drawn. 
As I have said on another occasion, if ever a Budget was out of date almost as soon as it was written, it was the Budget that was introduced in August of last year. Almost simultaneously with the announcement of the Budget there was an announcement in the United States of America about international monetary arrangements. As events have worked out since, what happened there had serious repercussions on Australia's exchange rate with the United States dollar. That is one changed circumstance. The other item to which I would like to draw attention appears on page 29 of the Appropriation Bill (No. 4). This item of additional expenditure was apparently not anticipated when the Budget was drawn. It is a sum of $25,900 - small by comparison with the lower migration costs I have just cited - incurred with the visit of the South African Rugby Union team. The cost incurred in bringing New South Wales police to Canberra was $25,900. That must be the dearest game of football - I think it is called football - which has ever been played. Again, that expenditure was not anticipated at the time that the Budget was drawn. 
Another item, which appears on page 46 of the statement of savings, is for the sum of S3. 6m which was set aside in the Budget for drought assistance in Queensland. Now we are told that$2.2m of that is to be saved. I would like a little explanation of why, instead of spending$3.6m on drought assistance for Queensland, apparently we are to spend only$1. 4m. Is it because the drought was not as bad as was expected or is there something wrong with the mechanism by which drought assistance is made available to those who should receive it? I hope that later in the debate the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  who is the Minister assisting the Treasurer, will give the House some details about that. To my way of thinking it is a rather curious saving to spend less on what was regarded as an urgent objective. There are other items to which I have directed my attention. Queensland certainly had a bad year because page 7 of the other document shows under the heading 'Payments to or for the States' an amount for Queensland of $200,000 for flood relief and $3. 5m for cyclone relief. This simply shows the diverse ways in which nature can wreak destruction, particularly so far as Queensland is concerned. The cyclone in Townsville earlier in the year pretty well flattened substantial areas of that city. Quick relief had to be given and certainly it was given. 
I want to- say something this evening about certain figures revealed in the most recent 'Treasury Information Bulletin' because of a number of events that have happened since. They are very summarily described on pages V and VI of the Bulletin'. It shows the various measures that have been taken since the Budget was drawn that have had the substantial effect of varying the Budget or re-writing what has been called the strategy of the Budget. A further step was announced the other evening when the Treasurer indicated that he was not going to seek any money on the loan market in May. I want to look at some figures which are contained on page 32 of this 'Treasury Information Bulletin' because they demand more explanation than is given in the rather scanty text of the Bulletin. They deal with the holdings of government securities classified by holder as at December 1970, March 1971, June 1971, September 1971 and, finally, December 1971. I want to compare the figures in December 1970 with the figures in December 1971. The figures show that in December 1970 the banking system held $5,540m in government securities and that in December 1971 its holdings had dropped by $200m to $5,336m. But there are 2 interesting components of that figure - the holdings of government securities by the Reserve Bank of Australia and the holdings of government securities by the trading banks. In December 1970 the Reserve Bank held $l,387m in government securities and in December 1971 the holding had fallen to $873m, a drop of $5 14m. On the other hand, the trading banks in December 1970 held$ 1,566m in government securities but in December 1971 they held $2, 106m, an increase of $540m. So there was a drop of  $5  14m in the holdings by the Reserve Bank of government securities and an increase of $540m in the holdings by the trading banks. There seems to be somewhat of a coincidence in these figures. 
What have been the effects on the economy generally of the fact that the Reserve Bank sold government securities of the order of $500m in the 12 months period while the trading banks increased their holdings by $540m? According to the Bulletin that is not the end of it because, whilst figures are not yet available for March 1972, it says: 
A comprehensive classification' of government securities by holder as at March 1972 isnot yet available. . . However, the trading banks are estimated to have increased their holdings of government securities by $392m over  the  March quarter, increasing their holdings in January and February and running down their portfolios slightly in March. 
In other words, the tradingbanks would have increased their holdings by something like $800m between December 1970 and March 1972. They have almost half as many government securities again in March 1972 as they had in December 1970. Does that mean that the trading banks as providers of credit have lost their audacity and prefer to put their funds into the safe security of government bonds yielding, as a minimum, something over 5 per cent? I suppose they would not tend to have their funds in very long term securities but they are certainly getting something over 5 per cent for virtually no risk at all. After all, the trading banks are supposed to be bodies that lend to industry. It seems indicative that because of the lack of confidence in the business community there just is not so much investment taking place and not so much recourse to the trading banks for loans as there was previously. There is always some difficulty in Australia in assessing these sorts of things. 
We were talking earlier this evening in a committee about the level of savings bank deposits. One can become a little overobsessed with the fact that the figure keeps rising. Of course the figure keeps rising - because saving is being done by more people than ever. The rates of interest payable on savings accounts are higher than they have ever been and, because we have had an aggregate inflation over the last 12 months to 2 years of nearly 10 per cent, money is not worth as much in March 1972 as it was in March 1970. These are factors that help to account for these savings. But we seem to be proposing rather strange theories as to why the savings are taking place. Presumably people are saving because they have fear about the future or for some other reason. 
All these kinds of things require much more examination and analysis by Government sources' and authorities than seems to be the case. The Treasurer seemed to have a fear that there would suddenly be a great unleashing of these savings and he took that into account when he wrote his Budget - the disastrous Budget of August last year. All that remains of that Budget is the document itself. ATI the assumptions have gone, one by one, the last of which was the one that has been rather broadly described as the Budget surplus. The surplus or the deficit - whichever year one might be looking at - no longer means what it used to mean. In the days when my colleague, the former Treasurer, studied the subject called public finance, the deficit was simply the difference 'between the money which the Government raised in taxes and what it spent as expenditure. Now we add to it capital items as well as annual items aud we add borrowings as well as taxing to the assessment of the overall picture. 
The Budget surplus virtually is the sum that the Government takes out of the economy as against what becomes available to it in other ways. I think this year the Government was positing a surplus of something of the order of $500m. If one looked at the Budget itself in the traditional sense, I think it would be seen that it had a deficit of some small quantity - $15m or $20m; the figure escapes my mind - but certainly the assumption was that something like $400m to $500m would be taken out of the private spending pool and put into the Government spending pool by reason of recourse to the loan market. The Treasurer told us a week ago of the loan that he would have sought. I do not think there would have been any difficulty in filling the loan if what the banks had been doing in January, February and March had continued into April or May. 
I think these kinds of things need much more analysis and I hope that we will get more of these Treasury information publications in the future. I at least commend the Treasurer for this new document, although I think that the word 'saving' is a rather loose description of what have been changes of circumstances, rather than any increase in prudence on the part of the Government. If a project the Government were to undertake were to cost $lm and it were able to do that task for $800,000, that would be a saving of $200,000. But it would not be a saving if due to a decline in the prosperity of the economy, not as many migrants arrived in Australia as the Government anticipates and therefore it would not have to spend so much on assisting those migrants. The Government calls that a saving. It is a lower expenditure than was anticipated, but the lowering of expenditure is determined by the lower tempo of the economy. 
I suppose that all these documents collectively indicate in some respect the drift that is now occurring in our economy. I do not think that the Government has any sense of direction so far as the economy is concerned. The Government is reacting rather than anticipating. Every day in this House we hear that the Government is to do something that it should have had under review for quite a long time. We are to receive a White Paper on foreign investment in a couple of weeks time. This is something that has been a problem for at least the last 5 or 6 years, when foreign capital has been flowing in at a magnitude of over $ 1,000m a year and, as the Reserve Bank pointed out in its last annual report, has had the effect of virtually nullifying the monetary policy which the Government thought, as a sovereign government, it was pursuing. The Government is to appoint a committee to examine taxation. Neither the scale of progression nor, basically, the deductions in the tax structure have been altered since 1954 and, in the 18 years or so since then, the value of money has almost halved. Yet we still have the same progressive scale of income tax in 1972 as we had in 1954. If there were any logic in it in 1954, there certainly could not be logic in it in 1972, yet the Government only now is to appoint a committee to examine this matter. We have not even been given its terms of reference, its personnel or how long it is likely to sit. 
Other examples can be given. The Government conducts reviews of defence after it has wasted $3 00m on the Fill aircraft, which has been paid for but which Australia has not received. Surely this must have interfered with the logistics of the Navy and the Army as well as the Air Force. We have been told that we are to have a review of defence. The Fill was first thought of in 1963. Since then we have had the election of 1966 and the election of 1969 and we are about to have the election of 1972, yet we still have not received the Fill. I can imagine what would have happened if a Labor government had promised the Fill in 1963 and it had not been delivered by 1966. We would have been laughed off the hustings, yet Government supporters can blithely talk about the Fill even though, after 9 years, Australia still has not received the aircraft. In the interim, the Government has spent something like $ 8,000m to $9,000m on goodness knows what because when one looks at the Government's defence expenditure and takes out of it the manpower and maintenance components, there is very little left that is supposed to frighten the enemy. This has been the Government's record on defence over the last 9 years. 
I suggest that it is time the public began to ask for and to receive more information on these matters than currently seems to be the case. Look at the desultory way in which this matter is being examined tonight. Between them, these 2 Bills provide for about $150m. Apparently this is of no interest to anybody except the few who have happened to have chosen one or two of these items and have asked for information. I do not think that is good enough. The Government's expenditure now is of the magnitude of nearly $9,000m a year. I believe that, at the Federal level, we are not spending enough in some directions and that we are spending far too much in others. When the Australian Labor Party went out of office in 1949 the child endowment bill in Australia was  li  per cent of the gross national product. In 1971, 22 years later, when a higher proportion of the population was under the age of 16 years than was the case in 1949 and remembering that endowment was now paid for student children over the age of 16 years, the child endowment bill represented only 0.6 per cent of the gross national product. 
If, in 1949, this affluent nation could afford to provide 1.5 per cent of its total resources for child endowment payments, why is it now providing only 0.6 per cent for child endowment payments? Is it because more important things have been done? I think this simply typifies the sorts of things that the Government has brushed off in this Parliament - the degrees of real poverty facing every family, on a low income level. A minimum wage of $51 per week is paid now to a . married man who has to support a wife, who is not working, and 2 children. Probably the reason his wife is not working is that she thinks it is proper to stay at home and look after the young children. She might be deluded according to some people's standards these, days, but in my view she is not. But of that $51 a week, nearly $4 is deducted for income tax. By reason of the Government's failure to look at the tax structure over the years, the same family is getting now, in real terms, only 40 per cent of the child endowment which it received in 1949. 
I think these matters can be remedied. 1 think they are things that nobody really wanted to happen. I do not think anybody can say that the Government willed the fact that child endowment, should be a memorial to the past rather than a payment to the living citizens, which is surely what it is supposed to be. We are simply letting the value of child endowment run down. I do not think that in essence, anybody on the Government side would claim that that is logical, but it is in fact what has happened. I think that these are the questions that surely have to be' answered at the next election. Some of them are not easy to answer. It is not very easy to run an election campaign around a new income tax schedule, but basically these' are the kinds of things which ought to be considered but which are not being considered. For that reason I am confident, and I think most people are becoming confident, too, that there will be a change of government. The change of government will be occasioned because people think that no longer is there an effective government in this country and the alternative would be an Australian Labor Party government. 
The Labor Party has been out of office for a long time, but what 1 am suggesting is that you have not won the game on your merits as a Government, and that has certainly become apparent, particularly in the last 2 or 3 years. I think that the rot has set in and nothing will save the house any more. So, I leave it at that. Other honourable members will follow me and deal with other matters. 
Firstly I thank the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  for having sent me a copy of this magnum opus on Sunday evening. I must confess that since that time I have read nothing else. I say without offence that I found it to be a valuable handbook for students of economic affairs but not much of a guide for legislators, present or future. I would have thought that most of the information it contains would have been readily available to the Department of the Treasury already and therefore also to the Treasurer. One thing that does seem clear from the text - one would need to read it several times - is the need in Australia for something that the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review pointed to many years ago. That is the need in Australia to have an integrated economic policy. Reading between the lines it is evident that that is what Australia does not have at the moment. The other thing that is surprising is how deficient we still are in what should be regarded as fundamental information. Let me take as an example of that, chapter 4 on page 70 of the document entitled Overseas Investment in Australia', which reads as follows: 
Surveys conducted by the Commonwealth Statistician indicate that direct ownership and control  al  around one-quarter of Australian manufacturing industry rested overseas in 1966-67 while approximately one-half of the value of mining (excluding oil) production in 1968 was accounted for by overseas-owned and controlled establishments. 
On page 5 of the document, Table I - Overseas Investment in Companies in Australia, by Form of Investment, 1947-48 to 1970-71 - shows quite clearly, as regards, both direct investment, in the form of undistributed income and all other investment, and portfolio investment and institutional loans, the significance of the increase in the aggregate over the years from 1966-67 to 1970-71. In those 5 years the undistributed income was $1,241 m out of a total of $2,75 lm, which is pretty close to half. The other income was $ 1,973m out of a total of $4.994tn. or 40 per cent. In the more significant and newer field of portfolio and institutional loans, the increase in those 5 years was Si, 796m out of a total of $2.5 19m. In aggregate in 1970-71 we had double the overseas interest in Australian companies that we had in 1966-67. 
It seems to me to be astonishing that in a situation where we ought to be beginning to map what has actually occurred, no later statistics of much relevance appear in this document other than those going back to 1966-67 and 1967-68. If the degree were as significant then, how much more so is it in 1971-72? I suggest that that is what a lot of this discussion should be about. 
The other matter to which I want to draw particular attention is a paragraph on page 110 of the document. In my view this document is in many respects a very subtle indictment of the conduct of the economy by this Government over the past 2 years in particular. The fourth paragraph on that page reads as follows: 
Developments over the last 2 years- 
Presumably this is going back to 1 970 -  certainly indicate that, at least under some condition?, private capital flows have now  acquired  d a practical potential to nullify the effects of monetary policy on internal economic conditions. The particular circumstances of this 'learning' period have not been such that the flows in question have prevented domestic monetary policy achieving its major objectives. In other circumstances, this may not be the case. 
I would submit that the paragraph is exceedingly kind about what has happened in the last 2 years, particularly bearing in mind what was pointed out in the last annual report of the Reserve Bank of Australia, tabled in this House as far back as August 1971. It indicated, to my mind without much doubt, that the monetary policy that rightly or wrongly - to use one of the phrases in this document - has been sought to be imposed by the sovereign government of this country had in effect been nullified by the large inflow of capital into this country and what were the practical or real effects of that action. Whereas the public works activity, particularly in building, had been stepped down, and private dwelling construction, in the name of controlling inflation, had been curtailed, one finds that as a result of private inflow what is described as building other than dwellings actually increased. 
If ever there was an indication that the policy of this Government - the sovereign government supposedly - was being nullified, it was evident enough as far back as 1971. I would like to draw attention to what are virtually the latest statistics in this document. It does nol contain many recent ones, apart from certain aggregates which are difficult to analyse. I suppose that the ones to which 1 propose to refer are in the same category. A table entitled Increase in the Australian Money Supply: Formation, 1968-69 to 1971-72 ($m)' appears on page 106 of the paper. This table gives the picture for the first 3 quarters of 1970-71 as against the same 3 quarters for 1971-72 and presumably takes the situation up to the end of March 1972, or near enough up to date. The significant item in the table is entitled 'Including: net apparent private capital inflow'. This item was thought to have been high in the 3 quarters of 1970-71 when it. stood at $977m, but for the same 3 quarters of this year, or for the same 9 months of this financial year, it is $ 1,341m. I suggest that other tables demand a certain amount of close analysis. 1 tried to say something about this the other evening when one of the Supply Bills was before us, but because we discussed the measure late at night no-one took very much notice of what I had to say. It seems that what this report points out, and very kindly suggests, is that we might have been able to get by in this way in the past. But I would suggest that we have now reached the stage of what might be called 'other circumstances' when this may not be the case. Whilst I can appreciate that the paper presented was not a policy document, nevertheless its details reveal to everyone bow recreant this Government has been in the conduct of its economic policy. 1 refer particularly to what was contained in the Budget - not the Budget presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who is at the table - of 12 months before. 
Surely this is a serious matter. It is not a matter that can be delayed for further palavers. If we have reached a stage where our overall economic development, including such questions as interest rates, exchange rates and the availability of credit, is thought to be vulnerable, can the Government delay any longer announcing some specific measures to show what it intends to do? One thing that was highlighted in the document was the sort of devices that are supposedly available, such as exchange control, taxation measures and so on, and how these devices can be frustrated - and this was particularly true in regard to the section on exchange control - by people who come here calling this a host country, but who in essence can become predators on our total economy by the way they choose to act, either in terms of the available exchange controls or the taxation laws. I suggest that apart from talking at international conferences about exchange rates and the effects that they have on developing and undeveloped countries and so on, what is necessary in the twentieth century - and we are now in the 1970s which is at the latter end of the twentieth century - is the need to consider these other matters. 
This document makes references in some places to the influence of what, for want of a better term, are called multi-national countries which choose to shift profits - to use the term in the document - to suit themselves, according to where their various interests might be. They adopt devices such as delaying the payment for orders in Australia if credit restrictions are framed in a certain way, changing the interest rate or allowing goods to be marked al what are presumably false prices. It is said that section 36 of the income tax legislation supposedly gives some safeguards, but it certainly does not seem to be strong enough to carry the great weight that it ought to carry. There is a great deal of emerging literature about the conduct of multi-nationals. What is required is an international code of business behaviour. If this is not introduced, what is supposed to be the blessing of international and multi-national trade could well go sour in the faces of smaller countries as against the bigger ones. 1 suggest that these problems at least are implicit here. 
There are not just 3 Treasury requirements in this field. The early stages of the report list 8 matters which require examination and which go to the totality of the whole economy. At least, to my mind, that is the one pleasing aspect of this report. Foreign investment cannot be considered in isolation. Foreign investment is one aspect only - a significant aspect but one aspect only - of the functioning of the total economy. Mostly what we do in this country, both by way of capital supplies and goods and services, is done by way of our own resources. We would have been a poorer country, a less diversified country and possibly a less efficient country if we had not had some of the advantages of foreign investment in the past. But. as the very need of this document suggests, we have reached the kind of state in the economy where there is a questioning as to whether it is all benefits and no kicks. It is time that we began to evaluate the benefits and the totality of the implications of this very significant matter in our economy. I hope that the report will stir the Government to greater action. 
I submit that there was nothing in the document that the Treasurer, who is at the table, ought not to have known. In many respects 1 think I could have written it myself. 
Yes, perhaps this might save time in the future. But the proposition that this document is a pointer to what we should do in the future rests, as it must rest, in the hands of the sovereign government, and if we are not careful there will not be any sovereign government, according to some of the data lines of that report. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I should like to thank the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on this occasion. At least, before he goes on his journey he has given what might be called a statement of intent, which I am afraid we have not had on other occasions; and often, on return from a journey, there has been very little said, either. I support the Treasurer's proposition that the issues facing us at the moment are the establishing of a monetary system which will facilitate international balance of payments equilibrium on the one hand, and which will be conducive to the continuation of a high level of international trade, on the other hand. I think that for too long there has been the tendency to separate these monetary manipulations from the fact that basically most people hope that what the monetary arrangements do is merely to underpin sound trade and capital movements. It is timely that this statement follows the very long document that was given to the House yesterday, which, I suppose by now, at least some honourable members have  had  the opportunity to read. 
The Treasurer indicated what he thought  were  some of the major issues to be considered. Probably there are other issues, but the Treasurer has listed the major ones. He cites first the balance of payments adjustment process and says that  the  pressures and incentives for countries to maintain reasonable equilibrium in their balance of payments have broken down. I would think that one of the difficulties that our own country has to face is that we  have  the illusion of ease in our balance of payments arrangements. The Treasurer cites the fact that by the end of this financial year the level of reserves will be not too far short of $4 billion. He seems to think that is praiseworthy, but it seems  to  me that in some respects we tend to be doing what he is condemning other countries for doing, namely, building up  larger  reserves than are currently needed. 1 must confess that I find it somewhat mystifying, in terms of reserves  of  this kind of magnitude, why Australia needs to borrow yen at the moment. The only reason that seems to be given is that Australia will be the first foreign country for something like 50 years to float a loan in Japan. That is a psychological rather than an economic reason for so doing. 
It may be the closeness of financial relations, but equally I think that we ought to be much closer to Japan on  the  question of trade relations, and I have no doubt that negotiations are taking place on this question. I think that the emphasis through the Treasurer's speech has been that no longer should these things be the preserve of the wealthy nations as against what might be called the less wealthy nations. I do not know where Australia falls in this category, or whether a group of 20 is necessarily better than a group of 10. I suppose it is better to be in the group of 20 if you are excluded from the group of 10. But I think that once we begin to create wider mechanisms, at least we ought to have some idea what it is we want to talk about, and I still think that primarily Australia, as a great trading nation, should continue to place much more emphasis on the trading side than merely on the monetary side. At least the word 'trade' is studded through the Treasurer's speech. Apparently trade is inseparable, as I think it ought to be, from the mere monetary arrangement. 
The second matter that was listed as important was the international movements of short term interest sensitive and speculative capital. Again 1 think the document on foreign investment presented yesterday indicated that in this country it is pretty difficult yet - and one of my colleagues asked a question about this matter this afternoon - in our mechanisms to tape the capital movements into this country to ascertain whether some of the capital is coming in on a short term basis, whether some is coming in because of the interest rate position - and often it is the interest rate position in conjunction with the tax pattern as well that is significant - and finally how much is coming in on the speculation basis. 
There will be some change in the Australian exchange rate in relation to other currencies. During the recent devaluation issue, I must confess to having been one who believed that there was no case for Australia to devalue. I was somewhat disappointed that the Treasurer bowed to the pressure of the Australian Country Party and, instead of maintaining our currency at parity with sterling, chose to come down not to an 8 per cent revaluation, in terms of the dollar, but only to a 6 per cent revaluation. Apparently that 2 per cent was claimed as a great victory for the gentlemen in the corner who represent the Country Party. I would hope that in the future decisions as significant as this are made on much more substantial grounds. 
The Treasurer goes on to say that the flows of capital have been partly a byproduct of the very vitality of the Western world's economy and the growth of the multi-national corporations. I indicated yesterday that I think that one of the matters that need to be developed is a code of good conduct on the part of capital flow and investment. I think that too often we have experienced these crises - usually in May and again towards October and November. They are called international currency crises. One hears about sums of billions of dollars being transferred across exchange barriers in a matter of seconds and minutes. I would think that these things are still very mystifying to the gentleman to whom reference is made in this statement - the man in the street. But the man in the street finds it a bit difficult to contemplate what those sorts of transactions have to do with the price of his daily bread. It is the suggestion that we allow our currencies to be vulnerable to speculation that in many ways could be one of the undoings of Western economies which. I submit, are under great challenge in many respects at the moment, both internally and externally, for a number of reasons on which I do not have time to elaborate now. 
Another matter that is mentioned in the Treasurer's statement as being important is the question of the exchange rate. Again, yesterday's document suggested that one of the things that we have got to get clear  -  I think that was the term that was used - is what our exchange rates should be. I happened to read articles in  2  newspapers yesterday, one of which, unless it was a misprint, suggested that Australia's currency was over-valued. Oddly enough, that was in the 'Australian Financial Review'. I am not sure whether I read the article in its proper context. But most other people, I think, suggest that the Australian currency tends still to be under-valued. Whether it is or is not, of course, has a great deal to do with this relation of capital inflow, which may be volatile, to the fact that in real terms we still have an adverse balance of trade - merely counting exports and imports and the normal invisibles associated with trade. To some extent a degree of illusion is created by counting our reserves as S4 billion without contemplating some liabilities or the volatility of capital inflow; in some cases what flowed in quickly may just as easily flow out. This is another reason why we indicate that there are great deficiencies in the statistical and collecting arrangements for taping the flow of capital into this country. In answer to a question today the Treasurer suggested that he was not satisfied altogether with the statistical arrangements. All I say again is that the Government has had many years in which to have done something about this. After all, this very large capital inflow certainly has been prevalent now for a number of years. 
 I would accept the word incapacity' but I suggest that we should try to remedy that incapacity. A means should be found to bridge that incapacity. One of the things mentioned in the document tabled yesterday was that both Canada and the United States of America seem to have superior kinds of mechanisms for registering the flow of capital in and out. All I suggest is that we should give serious consideration to remedying what the Treasurer has described as an incapacity. I acknowledge the incapacity. One can see it only too clearly. Surely one of the duties of the Government is to reduce our incapacity. The final thing about which mention was made as a major issue is international liquidity. Reference was made to these rather curious things. SDRs, not to be confused with SRDs in the Australian context. SDRs are special drawing rights or what were in the early days rather sneeringly described as paper gold. We can create or use the same devices externally or internationally as we sometimes use internally for the creation of credit. 
Initially what seemed to be wrong with SDRs was the tendency to give more of this new kind of resource to those who in one sense needed it least of all. On one occasion I described it as rather like extending an overdraft to someone who already had credit at a bank. The people who want an overdraft are those who want to get something moving but have not got the credit necessary to do so. In some respects this is part of the difficulty in international trade. Many countries - and Australia is still in the category of countries vulnerable to variations in terms of trade - do not have a great deal to say about the prices they obtain for the goods upon which they must rely for export earnings. In the case of Australia wool and wheat are significant examples of such goods, as are minerals. Many countries are still dependent for their survival on income received from the sale of raw materials and basic commodities. I am sure those countries would like to see greater stability in the terms of trade and it always seems to me to be a pity that very little reference is made in this Parliament to the meetings of the other side of this equation, UNCTAD, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the body that deals with international trade relations. 
I am pleased to see that on this occasion the Treasurer has acknowledged the importance of both of these matters in transactions. Admittedly he is going to attend the international monetary conferences. I certainly wish him well in his deliberations and negotiations there, and I hope that Australia's voice will be decisive and that we will give definite opinions where they can be given. I concede that sometimes it is difficult to be definite about these things, and I, being on the threshold of becoming Treasurer rather than holding that office at this time, am reluctant to make grand pronunciamentos in advance. I think that in many cases there must be consultation, dialogue and resort to the techniques of experts and so on, of which we have plenty in this country. I hope that at these conferences the Treasurer will at least make some impact on behalf of Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
These 2 Bills provide the beginning of supply for the financial year commencing on 1st July 1972. The Bills we have just discussed appropriated additional amounts for the period to end on 30th June 1972. The Supply Bills are formalities that arise every year, usually in May, and they grant supply, without which the purposes of government could not be carried on. They grant supply for the first 5 months of the next financial year, from July until the end of November. I would have thought myself that, in view of the hazardous state of this 
Government, it should have sought supply for only 2 months and should be going to the country in an election so that the people would be able to decide whether the majority of them still support this rather ramshackled government that seems to be taking all sorts of desperate measures in anticipation of the next Budget to save its own political skin. There have been plenty of examples of such desperate efforts in recent times. 
At the beginning of the statement that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made on education the other evening he referred to the fact that the Government - I am not sure whether he said 'at long last' - certainly realised that we should not expect to have all our financial measures neatly encompassed within the scope of one Budget and that there was need to revise and anticipate. That is what he was endeavouring to do when making his announcements on education. I do not want to go into the merits of those measures. They are really projected measures because mostly they will be contained in legislation that will be part of the next Budget brought down in August this year. I merely observe that I fully agree with him that it is not reasonable in Australia to suggest that what we do on the second or third Tuesday in August every year sets the course of the economy for the rest of that year. I think it is time we got past this annual Budget type of concept. Parliamentary procedure makes it necessary that appropriations should go into the neat divisions of financial years, but many projects are continuations of earlier measures and projections of measures that will take some years to encompass. 
There is a lot of talk now about forward budgeting, programme budgeting and other such things. I think the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury),  indicated nearly 3 years ago that the Government was suggesting the preparation of forward Estimates covering a period of 3 to 5 years. Unfortunately nothing came of that proposition, but I would hope that the new government, whoever it might be, after November or whenever the election will be, will revive that concept. This is done now in the United Kingdom, where it was done originally by means of a Green Paper as distinct from a White Paper so that the proposition could be canvassed and evaluated. I would have thought that this kind of thing would be quite useful in the Australian context in many of the things we have to do, particularly in relation to the large amounts of money that are paid from the Commonwealth to the States. Increasingly there is the suggestion now that amounts should be paid to local authorities also. It would certainly be much better for those bodies if they had some idea several years in advance of what moneys they were likely to receive. Whatever views may be had on what is described as planning, there is no doubt that any large scale enterprise has to do a degree of forward planning if it is to survive in a commercial sense. Equally, on the national basis, when so much falls within the province of parliament to supply revenue for a variety of purposes, a need exists for forward planning. 
The last Budget made provision for an expenditure of close to $9, 000m and I suppose it is a pretty good bet that the next one will break the £ 10.000m barrier. Less than half of what the Commonwealth seeks sanction for is actually spent by the Commonwealth itself, when we take into account capital works as well as appropriations for other purposes. Something like one half of what the Commonwealth is in essence responsible for is not spent directly by the Commonwealth itself. Of course this raises all kinds of problems in trying to reconcile finance and function. We have quite a degree of argument still within parties and within Parliament about this. Whilst it is the province of the States to do certain kinds of duties, they certainly look to the Commonwealth to provide finance. Sometimes there is a suggestion that we ought to shift function to where finance is, but this is a very slow process to get agreement upon. As I say, it is now being suggested that finance should be shifted down to the third functional level, that is the level of local authorities, whether they necessarily be the local authorities as at present constituted or whether they be local authorities with the same boundaries. Of course that is one of the matters relating to administrative arrangements that needs to be looked at. 
What we have before us is the pro rata provision for the first 5 months of 1972-73. We simply say that we gave the departments so much last year for 12 months and with one or two exceptions we take five-twelfths of last year's estimate. The estimates are provisional and of course no money can be expended by any department unless it has first had the sanction of Parliament. That is still the procedure under which we work, and I suppose again this points to a need to scrutinise the procedures that are being followed here and have been followed for a large number of years in the past. 1 think 1 can remember the year when, for the first time, the Budget reached a figure of $ 1,000m. 1 think I can say, without being likely to be very far wrong, that the next Budget will be of the magnitude of $1 0,000m. Of course, we must bear in mind that in the 20 years or so that I have seen Budgets come and go the Australian population has almost doubled, as have prices, and when one relates prices and population to expenditure the effective increase in Budget expenditure is somewhat reduced. Nevertheless, it is probably true that in 1972-73 a higher proportion of the gross national product will go through the hands of this Government than was the case in, say, 1951-52. 
I think that that poses some philosophical problems for a government which claims that private enterprise should be the mainstream and, willingly or reluctantly, that public enterprise should perform the rest. J think that it poses some philosophical problems for all parties in a mixed economy, which means that there is some degree of private enterprise in industry and commerce and also a fair degree of public enterprise in such fields as railways and other forms of public transport, power and road making. lt is always a difficult task to adjudicate on what should be the mix between public and private expenditure and between public and private investment. My view is that, in the future, the mix in the investment field will be in the direction of more public investment, with a certain reduction of private investment. At the moment, 25 to 26 per cent of the gross national product in Australia goes into what is described as investment expenditure as distinct from consumption expenditure. The mix of that investment expenditure is something like two-thirds private investment and one-third public investment. Of course, private investment includes the great expenditure on domestic dwelling construction. However, over a period of years it might be necessary to shift this expenditure ratio from the present one of 66i per cent private investment and 33i per cent public investment to something like a 60 per cent and 40 per cent ratio. 
One should also take into account the estimate made by Professor Karmel in a report on education that he prepared for the State Government of South Australia. He said that, whereas then - 12 months or so ago - we were spending 4.2 per cent of the gross national product on education, he envisaged that by the latter half of the 1970s - that is the period from about 1976 onward - we should be spending 6.7 per cent of the gross national product on education. That would mean that, in terms of the gross national product, we would have to raise the total expenditure on education at constant prices by something of the magnitude of $750m. This certainly would require a change to less private expenditure and more public expenditure, particularly in the capital field, because the limiting factor in any of these matters is not the desire to spend more money on education but the reality that that expenditure can be sensible or meaningful only if it is in terms of properly trained teachers, properly equipped schools ad enough school buildings to hold teachers, the equipment and the pupils. After all, that in the long run is what education is about. It is not so much a matter of money, it is a matter of the matching of money, materials, manpower and techniques to do the job. 
We live in an age in which there is more and more talk about pollution and the fact that we no longer can allow industry to be untrammelled and to do what it wants and to discharge whatever it wants to discharge into the streams, the rivers, the atmosphere, and so on. Recently I saw a document which indicated that in Japan pollution safeguards will add an extra 10 per cent to the cost of major projects in the future. In other words, if a person were to build some kind of industrial structure that normally would cost $10m, he will have to spend Slim  -  another 10 per cent - in order to provide pollution protection. So, a higher cost will be imposed on the private section of the community to protect what might be described as the public environment. I hope that we in Australia are beginning to anticipate these sorts of changes rather than waiting until they overwhelm us. lt seems to be one of the tragedies of civilisation that it does not recognise a problem until it becomes a crisis. When one tries to solve problems in an atmosphere of crisis, one does not always arrive at the most rational solution. I believe that Australia is still relatively small enough to be a communicating democracy. We should understand and be able to evaluate what are these problems, to get some sense of their perspective and, above all, to achieve the dedication and intention to try to remedy them. 
As I see it, in the long run, that is mainly what democratic government is about. It is the solving by evolution and rationality, rather than by revolution, the problems that we face. I believe that, increasingly, whether we claim to be dedicated supporters of what is described as private enterprise or whether we want only to be good nationalists or good Australians, there will need to be public intervention in spheres that formerly were thought to be private. Whether that is done in a democratic rather than a - to use that awful word - bureaucratic way depends to a great extent upon how we as parliamentarians enunciate these problems and respond to the opinions and the expertise that are available outside the Parliament for the solution of these problems. 
There is nothing else I want to say about these measures. I suggest that they are only temporary. The real test will be in the next Budget. I hope that there will not be too much squandering in that Budget merely to save political skins, but that there will be a sense of responsibility about it. In some respects, 1 think that elections should be held 6 or 8 months before the presentation of Budgets rather than a month or two afterwards, because there is the tendency to throw things into that last Budget before an election. I am sure that there has not been a more desperate government in the last 20 years in Australia than this Government. I hope that its despair does not make it lose all sens: of public responsibility. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
The Bill is one of a series that we have come to expect in recent times. It is for a loan to Papua New Guinea from the International Bank and guaranteed by the Government of Australia. The Minister for Supply and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland),  when he introduced this measure, referred also to a second loan from the Asian Development Bank. The last time that this sort of measure was before the House some reference was made to the rate of interest at which these loans are financed. After all, Papua New Guinea is a developing country - I suppose that in many respects it is one of the most undeveloped areas of the world - yet the interest rate payable in respect of this loan is  li  per cent. This indicates some of the difficulties that face development projects. 
About a week or so ago I spoke about these difficulties, but that was in relation to what was described as a short term loan where the interest rate was 3 per cent or less. But on this occasion the loan is to service postal development - telephones - in the area and yet the interest rate is much the same as would be paid by well developed areas. We are caught in something of a dilemma here. At this stage Papua New Guinea is becoming independent. Heaven knows what independence is supposed to mean when the Australian Government still provides that country with something like Si 00m annually. We are in the position where we cannot insist much upon the terms and conditions under which &gt;these loans will be repaid. We underwrite them in a sense, although I hope that that country will be able to fulfil its interest commitments and so on. 
In the course of his speech the Minister assisting the Treasurer referred to the other loan where the sum was being made available at a nominal rate of interest. This in turn was to be advanced to the Port Moresby Harbour Authority which would be expected to pay interest at the the rate of  li  per cent per annum. This raises a matter which is significant even to countries like Australia. At times we all have arguments about the Post Office paying notional interest in respect of sums which are advanced directly from the revenue to that undertaking. Here at least, presumably, it is expected that even developing countries should be expected to earn from their commerical operations an amount to be able to service the borrowing at an interest rate of over 7 per cent. I think that this is a pretty substantial burden to ask developing countries to bear. A couple of years ago, on the last occasion a similar matter was before the House, my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said that he deplored the fact that Papua New Guinea was expected to pay  7i  per cent interest to service the debt. Of course, the question that one has to ask is how else is one to get capital unless the developed areas of the world are prepared to pay money in greater sums. 
Another Bill will be presented during the next day or so which deals with Australia's subscription to the Asian Development Bank. I am glad to know that we will increase our capital subscription. The Asian Development Bank is one of the bodies that provide interest at either low or nominal rates of interest or no interest at all. lt seems to me that this is the kind of burden that developed countries have to accept in the case of Papua New Guinea. I would have been happy in a sense to have seen a proposition in which Australia might have subsidised the rate of interest from the Bank, which is 7£ per cent, to the extent of 3 or 4 per cent so that at least the actual rate of repayment both of amortisation and interest would have been somewhat lower for Papua New Guinea. 
The Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  is relatively new to his portfolio. I am sure that he is beginning to get an appreciation of what the great development problems in this area are. I think I have said on many occasions that I do not think it is appreciated by most Australians that Papua New Guinea has a population higher than any of the States of Australia, with the exception of New South Wales and Victoria. Papua New Guinea has a population of over 3 million people and this number is rising pretty rapidly. It has an area of about 180,000 square miles which is about twice the size of Victoria. It also has one of the most difficult terrains in the world. This is the kind of area for which wc still have some moral and economic responsibility. We have, I think, a 5-year development plan for the area. Nevertheless, quite substantial amounts of capital have to be invested there. I think that the Bil) indicates that we have borrowed something like $60m from the International Bank and its allied branches. However, there is very little perspective in the sum of $60m. One might take as a comparison the situation that in Australia in terms of investment we spend something like one-quarter of our gross national product which is a sum of around $8,000m. Proportionately that would mean that if a country like Papua New Guinea is to achieve the stages of develop-  f"".v.i  of other countries it ought to have an investment programme that would be me-'N red m thousands of millions of dollars rather than in tens of millions of dollars. I know that this is a pretty impossible task to achieve quickly. But I think occasionally we should set out sights on the perspective of this problem. lt has been said often that if the world would devote to reconstruction the same sort of dedication and enthusiasm that it devotes to destruction, when it actually occurs we might begin to reduce this sort of problem to a manageable size. We are prepared to spend considerable sums of money in areas such as Vietnam. At one stage the United States of America was prepared to spend in Vietnam about $23,000m or £25,000m or something like the then gross national product of Australia. If we had the same kind of enthusiasm to raise the standards of living of people in a constructive sense as we have for one reason or another when we get into military conflicts with them we might get on top of this problem. 
The other great difficulty that faces places like Papua New Guinea is that for the most part they depend on extending their external trade for any improvement in their internal standards. Most of the sort of things that Papua New Guinea has to sell are in the nature of tropical products such as tea and coffee. However, this country does not grow sugar for external trading purposes. The prices of the tropical products are not determined by the costs of production in Papua New Guinea but on the hazards of world markets. The other evening when we were discussing the proposed visit of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to the international monetary discussions we were heartened to hear in his speech that at least it was acknowledged that trade was in many respects just as important as aid. Often the sums we give to undeveloped countries in the form of various kinds of loans can be set at nought because the price of rubber in the case of Malaysia, the price of tin somewhere else or the price of tea or coffee falls by a few cents per lb. We take away with one hand what was supposed to be given benevolently with another. These are the kinds of problems which face us in this area. Whoever is in government in Australia in the period after the next election will have this problem. 
I think that the new Minister is handling the situation diplomatically. For good or ill we have embarked Papua New Guinea upon the hazardous kind of path of what is called self-determination or independence. I think in many respects we have been very foolish in relations with those countries which have inherited Commonwealth institutions such as the Westminster pattern to say that this system is necessarily the best for them. There is a scheme of that kind in New Guinea now. For the first time that country has a Chief Minister. 1 think at least there has been some degree of friendly compromise in setting up the Government in that country. Following the recent elections, no party in terms of a majority had a clear mandate. 1 think that sensible arrangements were made to get a workable Government. I sometimes think it is rather odd that we think we should have parties in some of these systems. At least in our kind of system there is a fairly broad dividing line between the parties and we accept or challenge what is called the existing social system. It is capitalism versus something else. I think that this is a fairly realistic dividing line between the parties. But I am not quite sure what the parties would represent in the Papua New Guinea system. It seems to me in many respects that the only common bond is one of relative poverty and rather low economic development. They have more in common on which to secure an agreed path than to be divided on what might be called ideological party grounds. 
At least the measure that is before us attempts to improve the communications system of that area. Papua New Guinea is one of the most difficult places in the world for communications. I suppose that a sophisticated telephone system will be of considerable advantage in that area economically, commercially, culturally and so on. The Opposition offers no objection to the measure. However, I again highlight the difficulties created by financing the development of undeveloped areas at what really are quite high interest rates. It adds an intolerable burden to what is already a very difficult situation. 
I support my colleague the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  who, over the years, has been an advocate of greater assistace for the gold mining industry. As all honourable members know, most of the gold that is currently produced in Australia, comes from Kalgoorlie. Whilst the yields from that area are nowhere near as great as they used to be years ago - nor are the real returns as good because the costs of production have risen considerably - nevertheless gold is still a very substantial industry as far as Kalgoorlie is concerned. In his second reading speech the Minister for Supply and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  said: 
The Government then expected that this would enable gold mining activity in Kalgoorlie to continue to phase out gradually without serious disruption to the population and economy of the area. 
It was hoped that, just as the gold mining phased out, the nickel would begin to come in. But such are the hazards of mineral production, as the Minister knows. He said: 
The recent weakening of the demand for nickel in world markets has, however, made it difficult for prospective producers to obtain sales contracts. 
What we have here is, in many ways, a combination of measures. The subsidy, in essence, keeps the marginal areas in production and preserves the population of Kalgoorlie. In terms of preserving that area the cost of the subsidy is quite insubstantial. If the Government would take the same sort of attitude about decentralisation generally it would be much better for the community. But the tendency, unfortunately, is to work out only the cost that you can calculate and ignore some of the social costs that cannot be evaluated. Kalgoorlie has been kept in existence with a reasonable population for a good number of years now because of the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act, which has operated for over 25 years now and, according to the Minister's second reading speech, has cost only $32m in that period. The fact that an area has been preserved for so small a sum indicates, I think, that if we rethought the question of decentralisation and compared it with the problems of aggregations in city areas we might begin to get a new approach. 
My friend the honourable member for Kalgoorlie has just quoted from the weekly letter of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago which indicates that the price of gold has reached $US54 an ounce and is likely to increase even further. I have even seen estimates that the price may reach as high as $US85. I certainly would have no regrets if it reached SUS85 but I would have considerable regrets if, at that price, it was still sought to use gold as an international currency unit. I suggest that it is crazy in the 1970s, and in the light of the economic development that is required, to suggest that we cannot devise a system which is entirely independent of gold. I for one have welcomed the new movement - the special drawing rights - that has been in existence now for some 3 years or so, which provides for the automatic creation of credit at an international level to allow for the fact that in a growing world population with rising standards, the volume of international liquidity must continue to rise and that it ought not to be dependent upon the price of gold as a metal. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie has shown that the recent increase in price has been due to the industrial use of gold rather than to its monetary aspects. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is overseas at the moment attending a conference on international monetary arrangements. Before he left Australia he gave the House an outline of what he thought the present monetary problems were. 1 do not think that the price of gold was really one of the central problems of those deliberations. However important gold may be to Kalgoorlie it is not as dominant as far as international trade is concerned. As I have already indicated, I do not want to say very much because the hour is late. But I do support the remarks of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie on a subject which affects his electorate. He has been a very great advocate on the importance to that area of the guaranteeing of a viable existence for this industry. I do not think the people of Kalgoorlie worry very much whether the upsurge that is now occurring in the price of gold is due to the fact that it is an international monetary unit or that it is being used for industrial purposes. As long as they get the higher price both they and the economy of Australia will be advantaged. I saw a suggestion the other day that some of the mines in Kalgoorlie, which have been closed over the years could come back into production because of the higher price being received for gold. I think that there are areas in Victoria and elsewhere in Australia which might do likewise if the price being received at present were to be maintained at that sort of level for any priod of time. The Opposition supports this measure and hopes that it goes through this House and the other place because it is a measure which will be to the advantage of Kalgoorlie. 
By way of preamble to my question, which I address to the Minister for Labour and National Service, I refer to the March figures of total employment. These figures show that total employment in March 1972 was only 25,000 higher than a year before, despite a potential increase of about 160,000 in the labour force. On a seasonally adjusted basis, female employment fell between February and March. Whilst government employment provides work for only one male in 4, private male employment declined by 200 and government employment increased by 6,200. I ask: Do these figures indicate any evidence of buoyancy on the part of private enterprise or an ability quickly to absorb into active employment those people seeking employment? 
While these measures are being considered together, they are rather different as far as particular technical matters are concerned. They propose important amendments to what are very technical sections of this vast compilation, the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1971. It now runs with its index to over 500 pages and with these amendments another dozen or so pages will be added. My colleague the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  who is widely experienced in the intricacies of the tax law, will concentrate on some of the esoteric fields such as dividend stripping and chains of companies. I want particularly to deal with the third of these measures which is described as a Bill foi an Act to amend the law relating to income tax with respect to income derived from the sale of shares. The amendment is proposed to a section which is quite simple in. its wording but one that has been very complicated in its operation. 
In many respects the amendment that is before us in respect of sub-section (a) of section 26 is perhaps an unsatisfactory solution and something in the nature of a half-way house for what has really been quite a difficult situation. The sub-section provides: 
The assessable income of a taxpayer shall include - 
profit arising from the sale by the  taxpayer  of any property acquired by him for thi purpose of profit making by sale, or from the carrying on or carrying out of any profit making undertaking or scheme; 
I have been helped somewhat in my remarks in this debate by quite an interesting and comprehensive article of about 40 pages which appeared in the Melbourne University Law Review Volume 8 No. 2 of August 1971. The article is headed 'Aspects of Section 26(a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act* and was written by 2 Melbourne barristers and solicitors,  Mr J.  Mci. Walter and  Mr A.  J. Myers. I think of what they say in the latter part of their article - if I might quote it first. They say: 
Section 26 (a) was introduced in haste in 1930 to counter the concept of income of the House of Lords in Jones v. Leeming. It was based upon words used in  Blockey's  case and other cases. These cases were inconsistent among themselves and internally. From that humble beginning section 26(a) has had a pervasive effect, especially over the last 10 years, being used by the Commissioner as the other prong to section 260 in his offensive against tax avoidance. In some circumstances it has proved more successful than section 260. 
The learned gentlemen conclude by saying: 
Section 26 (a) has operated to catch capital gains despite what appear to be the expectations of its farmers. If capital transactions are to be taxed then a capital gains tax would appear to be a more sensible solution than section 26 (a). One of the harsh aspects of the operation of section 26 (a) is that the whore of a realised profit is brought Into assessable income in the year the profit is realised. A capital gains tax would be at a lower rate than a tax upon income or an allowance would be made for the period during which the asset realised has been held by the taxpayer. What the amendment purports to do is to resolve the uncertainty that has arisen out of the interpretations or the discretion that has been placed in the Commissioner in deciding what section 26 (a) means in what the learned authors describe as the first limb of the section - that is the section dealing with profit arising from the sale by the taxpayer of any property acquired by him for the purpose of profit making. Again, as the 2 learned gentlemen pointed out, one of the great difficulties in this question of the Income Tax Assessment Act is that the Act reveals that the provision is concerned primarily with a tax upon income. Yet nowhere in the Act is 'income' defined, nor is its antithesis 'capital' defined. 
Part of the difficulty, both in this measure and in the other Bill with which my friend will deal, is in deciding whether certain things are income or whether they are capital gains. In the kind of matters that my friend will examine there is the very subtle attempt by lawyers and accountants in combination - and it is a pretty devious combination sometimes - to turn what is obviously income in the first instance, into capital, in the second, with the prospect that this income shall avoid tax. For my part I have neither sympathy nor mercy for people who attempt to do these things. I believe that taxation should be equitable in its incidence and that it also should be reasonably certain m its imposition. Most people in the community who are taxpayers - wage earners and recipients of relatively small incomes - have very little opportunity to convert their incomes into anything else or to avoid one cent of the tax that is legally payable by them. I know that on many occasions there is a great deal of sensitivity displayed about what on one side is called 'avoidance* of taxation and on the other side is called 'evasion' of taxation. Evasion apparently is regarded as dishonest: 
Avoidance is regarded as clever. Sometimes I think that the clever people are less honest than the people who are sometimes accused of being dishonest. After all, this is what we are attempting to restrict in some of these measures before us. 
What I am concerned about principally - as the article I have referred to suggests - has occurred mainly in the last 10 years and has been surrounded by the inclination of more people to buy and sell stocks and shares or the sorts of things in which dealings take place on the stock exchange. No doubt the stock exchange can play a very significant part in mobilising capital and also in making certain ownership of property much more liquid than it would be without the existence of the stock exchange. 
I now refer to the first of a series of 2 articles - the second of which has not yet been published - which appeared in a rather interesting economic journal produced in Western Australia. In the October 1971 issue of 'Economuc Activity'  Mr Ross  McLean, in the first of these articles, deals with the Perth Stock Exchange in particular. I have checked in the Parliamentary Library and have found that the latest issue which is dated January 1972 is available but  Mr McLean's  second article has not yet appeared. The first article was entitled 'The Economic Functions of the Stock Exchange', and in it  Mr McLean,  by way of introduction, stated: 
During the late sixties the Australian share market engaged the interest of a wider spread of the Australian population than at any other stage in its recent history, if not since its inception. 
Interest in the share market became  a  national pastime. The interest was purely speculative, with investment horizons stretching no further than  a  couple of days. Turnovers and price fluctuations on the Australian stock exchanges broke all records, and fortunes were made and lost. 
I suppose one need not cite anything other than the ill-fated Poseidon float. The article continued: 
While many consider that the share market of recent months is completely depressed, and gloom is the prognostication of many in the industry, it probably reflects no more than  a  return to normal conditions. 
It seems that in that abnormal period the Commissioner of Taxation began to exercise his discretion, under an interpretation of section 26(a) in relation to what in more tranquil times he had not bothered with or thought worth pursuing, namely, whether certain investments were made to return income only in the form of dividends or interest or whether they were investments acquired for the purpose of profit making through capital gains. 
A great deal of doubt intrudes in these matters. Again, the learned authors of the first article which I quoted indicate some of the criteria on which the lawyers and accountants, representing their clients in negotiations with the Commissioner of Taxation, base their suggestions that their clients had no intention other than of earning income through dividends and that they had not acquired investments for the purpose of profit making by sale. We reached the stage where nobody was certain. People who were described as traders are excluded from these transactions and are taxed on their turnover, stock in trade and so on. But if a man operating in a small way bought shares in Poseidon today and sold them in 2 or 3 days time there could not be much doubt that he bought or sold the asset for the purpose of making a profit. However, if the person held other kinds of investments, or had held them for some time, the question would then be whether he was just a careful investor or whether he was a speculator looking for a profit. 
It appears that there has been an intrusion into the operation of section 26 (a) of a kind of capital gains tax by default. I do not want to argue this evening the proposition in relation to a capital gains tax. I believe there is a great deal of sentiment in favour of a capital gains tax because many people feel that, because most people are not in a field where they get windfalls or other gains of this kind, it is not equitable that those who profit in this way should not be required to make any payment to the revenue. I regard this as a separate matter to be looked at systematically. Perhaps it is not quite so simple as it sounds. If I were asked for my philosophic view about it, I would say that, for the most part, capital gains are not ethical and that they go without any great ment to those who achieve them. They are achieving them at the expense of the rest of the community. Capital gains should not be milked when they do occur but we should try to do something to prevent them from occurring. Insofar as they do occur they lead to a maldistribution of the social product and, insofar as they are largely built around real property and personal property of this kind, they can create very distinct social problems that ought at least to be adjudicated upon. 
No, and it is not the reason why we should have invoked section 26 (a). This is the point I am trying to make. It seems to me that it was not an equitable way to do this. I have no sympathy tor those who claim to be careful investors when in fact they are nothing but sheer speculators who try to resort to an interpretation of that section to protect themselves. By this amendment there is an attempt to say that if a share has been held for a period of more than 18 months, which is a pretty arbitrary time limit in any case, it can be presumed that the share is in the careful investment field rather than in the reckless speculative field, but that if it is sold after that time and if it is a share acquired after 12th April 1972 it shall not be subject to tax in terms of section 26 (a). The battle with the Commissioner still has to go no regarding anything which is not held for 18 months. That is the purpose of the amendment. 
I want to point out what I regard as one or two unsatisfactory elements of this amendment. The first is the rather arbitrary nature of the 18-month period. I suppose it has been set at 18 months to get over the difficulty of a tax year being only 12 months. I can see some advantage in setting a period of 18 months, but I draw the attention of the House to proposed section 6d(2.) of. the Act which states: 
Where a taxpayer has duly . notified the Commissioner under section fifty- two of this Act that property acquired by the taxpayer, being a share or an interest in a share, has been acquired by him for a purpose specified in that section, the last preceding sub-section does not apply. . . . 
According to the explanation given by the Minister in his second reading speech the amendents will not apply where, on or before lodging the first return after acquiring particular shares, a person has notified the Commissioner of Taxation that the! shares were acquired for the purpose of profit making by sale. It has been pointed out to us that this would at least allow what might be called the shrewder person, if he found that a share which he had thought would improve looked as though it would fall in value, to notify the Commissioner that he had bought it for the purpose of profit making by sale, knowing of course that he was not going to make a profit but would incur a loss which he would be able to claim in terms of section 52. We regard this as a weakness in this section. 
For argument's sake, a man who buys a share on 1st July has until 30th June to watch the fortunes of that share. If it looks like coming good he says nothing about it, but if it looks like going bad he simply notifies in his return that he bought the share for the purpose of making a profit at sale, knowing that he is not going to make a profit but will be able to deduct a loss. I regard that as a weakness in the legislation as propounded. I realise that there is a difficulty in setting an arbitrary period. I have had some representations suggesting that the term is too long and others suggesting that the term is too short. I realise that there is a difficulty in simultaneously resolving that sort of situation. There are plenty of people who wanted to do the same sort of thing in regard to exchange rates. They wanted something which would suit our trade with Japan but which could also suit our trade with Europe, yet the circumstances were quite different. This seems to me to be a real difficulty in this legislation. I hope that the Minister will at least be able to advise me on it. 
In regard to the period of time, I am afraid that there would be real difficulty if there were a capital gains tax. If we were to say that anything earned in the taxable year would be treated as income, whether it came from interest or from capital appreciation, we would get a dwelling of business on the day before and the day after the end of the tax year. We would get the same kind of situation at the end of an 18-month period. There would be what is called 'a bunching of transactions' at the end of the 1 8-month period. As we are all aware from what was called bond washing, as distinct from dividend stripping. In the case of bond washing there were what I always regarded as nefarious decisions which were regarded as shrewd commercial transactions. In those cases somebody who could claim a loss would sell a bond at a loss to somebody who was not taxable even if he made a gain. There was an attempt to remedy this kind of situation by legislation, but the same kind of thing can happen in regard to the 18-month period. 
When the Minister introduced the Bill he indicated that this was more in the nature of an experiment. He said that the operation of the proposed amendment would be carefully watched, and should experience show that it was tending to lead to the devising of arrangements to avoid or to minimise taxation, the Government would have no hesitation in introducing such further amendments as might be thought necessary to prevent systematic income tax avoidance. All I can say is that I concur heartily with him. I would certainly do the same thing if we were in a similar position, as we may be in a few months. I think that in these matters legal cleverness or accounting shrewdness can sometimes quite ruthlessly override what is undoubtedly the spirit of the law. 
It can come unstuck, causing a great deal of litigation. Sometimes it does not come unstuck, as was shown in a number of recent cases which the honourable member for Banks will delineate. As I said, the endeavour is made to convert income into capital or to claim that what the Commissioner suggests is income in fact is capital, and so on. 1, suggest that a lot of this uncertainty should be gradually resolved. 1 think that probably in many respects people tend to do a little dabbling in the stock market in much the same fashion as those of the generation of the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  in their younger days indulged in following horses. It gives them a certain sense of satisfaction. The only point about horse racing is that if one person wins we know that many people have lost. The bookmakers testify that they are shrewder people than punters are. I am afraid that the same principle applies to the stock market. Most stock brokers seem to live better than their clients. But be that as it may, what has emerged in recent times from the security and exchange inquiry in another place shows that there is need for a great deal of regulation in matters relating to the stock exchange. The article to which I referred earlier suggested that there should be some criteria as to what a stock market as an allocator of resources should be. It stated:   the closer the share markets correspond to the model of perfect competition the more efficiently will the market allocate capital. 
I do not think there is much doubt that in recent times it has been very doubtful whether some of the floats of very large mining companies in Australia have been models of perfect competition. There are plenty of examples of people who had inside information and who bought shares at a low value when the float was made and got out when the shares increased in value, leaving somebody else holding what was supposed to be the mine. These events reminded me of what was apparently a typical enough event, according to Shann's Economic History of Australia', which contains a footnote to the effect that on one occasion in De Bernales days in Western Australia a sample of ore was sent to London to show what a magnificent venture was being undertaken in Australia. One day an urgent telegram arrived stating 'For God's sake send us back the mine'. I think this was proved true of some of the ventures that were floated in Australia in recent times. They were made to appear 10 times as good as they really were. 
Many more times perhaps. 1 would suggest that it was a thousandfold in one case. Had the amendment which is proposed in this Bill been in operation 3 or 4 years ago certainly a lot more revenue would have been netted. If people had had in mind that any profit that was made might be subject to tax they might not have been so enthusiastic about dabbling in a venture. I am sure that many people would have been better off had that been the case. I simply cite that to indicate the context in which one has to evaluate the present situation. Unfortunately we are getting to a stage in Australia when share hawking is once more becoming an occupation for people. These people go from door to door - they usually get quite substantial commission for so doing - persuading people that certain ventures are just the kind of investment that they require. 1, think that sometimes in these matters we have to save fools from their folly. I hope that the operation of this amendment will be looked at, as the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  says it will. As I see it, at least it is an attempt to do something, but it is in the nature of a half way house. We ought to be facing up to the proposition of having in Australia  a  systematic capital gains tax. Administratively such a tax might take a year or two to evolve. In these matters it is not easy to say that we will change this section today and introduce something else tomorrow, but the attempt was made via section 26 (a) to introduce a captial gains tax by stealth. I do not think that is quite the way that capital gains should be treated. 
The impropriety of how things are done. If the honourable member is not concerned with how things are done, he ought not be here. 
I am not referring to privilege. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Barnard's)  be agreed to. 
With all respect to you,  Mr Speaker,  I think you are making very difficult decisions if you believe you can decide what is and what is not obscene. 
I am not arguing. If the honourable member can decide what is obscene, fair enough. There are many legal cases on what is and what is not obscenity. With all respect, I would think that this is not a satisfactory solution of the problem. Like you,  Sir, sometimes  I would prefer that much of the mail we receive was not received. However, the question is to determine whether certain material shall be received or not. If you like to say that nothing will come to this House unless it is posted, that is a different matter. However, if you,  Sir, open  a letter first and decide that it is too bad for members to receive, I think you are making a very unwise decision. I suggest that at least the matter ought to be referred to the Standing Orders Committee, or whatever is the appropriate committee, to determine what procedure should be followed. I submit that you should not make a firm decision on this matter. After all, when it is all said and done, we are legislators and if something is too horrible to be received we are making censors where censors should not be applied. Therefore, with all respect, I think that you ought to reconsider this decision, and refer it back to a committee. I think that is all that my colleague the honourable member lor Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was trying to suggest. Much material we receive would be better not received. But if you are to be the one, rather than the postman, to decide whether or not we will get it, I think you are taking a difficult stand. 
I should like to draw the attention of the House to the terms of this matter of public importance, namely, 'The complacent attitude of the Government towards the serious and deep-seated nature of unemployment'. All that we have heard from the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  has been a tirade about trade unions. I suggest that this is not what the debate is about. I should like to quote 2 rather interesting passages, one of them from a news release issued by the Department of Labour and National Service on 1st March 1971 when the now Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  was then the Minister for Labour and National Service. The news release stated:  . . the available labour force was likely to grow by about 170,000 or 3 per cent in 1971, and be expected demand for labour to grow more or less in proportion, thus maintaining overall stability in the labour market. 
I cite figures the Commonwealth Statistician issued at the time when  Mr Snedden  made those remarks. The total number of people in civilian employment in Australia at the end of February 1971 was 4,465,100. One year later - February 1972 - the number was 4,492,700, an increase of 27,600 people in the 12 months for which the Treasurer, who was at that time the Minister for Labour and National Service, had forecast an ' increase of 170,000. That at least is an indication of how wrong this Government can be. To give another example, when that honourable gentleman became Treasurer he forecast in December 1971 that there would be  a  real increase of 4 per cent in the gross national product to the end of June 1972. In fact the real increase was 3 per cent. The honourable gentleman was $360m out in a space of 6 months. I refer now to information which interestingly enough is appended to the last page of the most recent issue of the review of the employment situation, and will quote from the Commonwealth Statistician's notes about seasonally adjusted statistics. The passage reads as follows: 
For these reasons, therefore, it would be neither reasonable nor prudent to regard seasonally adjusted series as in any way 'definitive'. They must be treated with caution as being no more than useful indicators of movements. They can without doubt be a useful aid to critical interpretation, but can m no way be a substitute for it. 
I submit that what is lacking is a critical interpretation of the statistics. To illustrate my point - every member of this House can see these figures for himself in this monthly statement - ostensibly during the month of July there was a variation of 21 downwards, and in the same time as employment fell downwards by 21 the number of recipients of unemployment benefit rose by 1,378. Does not that at least imply that there is some difference between the aggregate figures and the constituents of the figures? Again taking the figures directly from this document, even that figure of 21 is made up of increases of 1,060 for adult males, despite the drop in aggregate figures of 21, a decrease of 127 for junior males, a decrease of 387 for adult females and a decrease of 569 for junior females. One set of figures adds to 933 and the other adds to 954, and the difference is 21. But to be complacent about the 21 is to camouflage the reality of the situation. 
The difficult situation in Australia at the moment is in regard to adult males, that is, people over 21 but more particularly people over 45. I would hope that the statistics in the future will contain some figures about the age of people as well as the duration of unemployment. As I have indicated, in the 12 months which these figures cover there has been an increase of 50 per cent in the number of unemployed from 64,000 to 99,180 but there has been also almost  a  doubling in the number of recipients of unemployment benefit. There is  a  higher proportion now in terms of the total number of people out of work who are recipients of unemployment benefit. That is one feature that ought to be noted. 
There is a hard core of unemployment and, as I shall try to show in the limited amount of time available to me in this debate, in the male sector it is in 2 categories, namely, semi-skilled and unskilled manual. Again, if one looks at the statistics issued by the Department of Labour and National Service one will find that in the semi-skilled category the number of unemployed from 1969 to 1972 rose, in round figures, from 30,000 to 69,000, and the number of unfilled vacancies fell from 22,500 to a little over 13,000. In the unskilled manual category there were 19,400 unemployed and 9,565 job vacancies in 1969. In 1972, according to the latest figures, the number of unskilled manual out of work has increased to 44,227 and the number of job vacancies declined to 5,530. In summary, these 2 categories have declined. Whereas in 1969 there were 2 people for every available job there are now 8 people for every job. This is the reason for this discussion - the serious structural nature of unemployment. Let us look at the situation as far as females are concerned. The 2 principal female categories in which there are large degrees of unemployment are in the clerical and administrative field and in service occupations. Over the same period, twothirds of the unemployed are adult males in the 2 male categories I have described, and in the 2 categories of females it is three-quarters of the total number who are unemployed. 
We have reached in Australia a situation where we lack certain skills entirely and we are doing nothing whatever to train people to ensure that they are occupied. Meanwhile there are people who cannot find any occupation. We have reached the stage - this is a dreadful term to use in a society that believes in full employment - where they are almost unemployable and they will be unemployable until the general level of the economy rises. The Government is gratified at the fact that this year the level of employment will increase by only 2 per cent. It should increase by 31 per cent. If ever anything illustrated more starkly the decline in the economy, it was that where there ought to be a growth rate of 5i per cent it is just a shade over 3 per cent. In real money terms the performance of this economy at the moment is $900m annually less than it should be, yet honourable members on the other side say that there is nothing to worry about and that it is all the fault of the unions. Incidentally, it is mainly the skilled unions with which this Government is having difficulty. The majority of people who are unemployed are in the unskilled and rapidly becoming the unemployable group, yet honourable members opposite say that no problem exists. I am sorry that they take that attitude. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I apologise for not being present when the debate commenced. The Opposition supports this measure because it is an attempt to assist in providing finance for capital and other development in undeveloped areas. I regard the Asian Development Bank, which falls somewhere within the family of various international banking arrangements, as one of the better of those organisations, at least in the sense that it provides loans on soft terms. The Assistant Minister assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Dobie)  referred to the two windows', as he called them, of ordinary operations and special operations. The special operations fall into the category of loans that are provided at nominal rates of interest. One of the great difficulties is to try to remove the disparities that exist between he 'haves' and the 'have nots* in the economic sense. There are on the one hand the variations that can take place in terms of trade and on the other hand the rather high rate of interest that even the poorest countries have to pay when transactions are conducted on what are regarded as normal commercial terms. Most of the countries to which assistance is being given are either what are called monoculture countries or have economies that depend on very few commodities - mainly primary commodities - for their export earnings. As Australia knows with regard to wool in particular and some of our other primary products the price we get when we sell over seas is not very much in the hands of those who produce the article. One would not produce a motor car if one expected to sell it for less than its cost of production. Therefore why should one produce anything of a primary nature, which is really wanted, that one expects to sell at less than its cost of production. One can argue if one likes about the relative efficiencies of production and so on, but often the price is forced down because the potential buyer is better organised than the seller. 
While I do not think that we are getting equity in our international trade, I think that one of the healthy signs of the discussions that are now taking place about international monetary reform - a subject that I do not want to go into too far this evening - is the suggestion that the grouping should be widened from a group of 10 to a group of 20 and that more emphasis should be put on trade as well as on monetary arrangements. I think that the more equitable the terms of trade of those countries relying upon one or two basic commodities for their export earnings the less they will ultimately have to rely on institutions of the kind we are discussing. But that is a long way off as yet. 
If some countries were to devote the same enthusiasm to providing funds for international aid and trade to build up better relations with neighbouring countries as they devote to providing for defence I think that defence would not be quite as necessary in the future as it has been in the past. We listened this afternoon to a very desultory statement that took something like 45 minutes to make about Australia's defence programme for the next 5 years. I would like to see a similar paper produced about Australia's assistance to the undeveloped areas for the next 5 years instead of the rather scrappy information that appears at the end of the Budget Papers. At least there has been an acknowledgement of this aid in the Budget over the last several years, which it did not have previously. Nevertheless when we take into account that we have a Budget provision of over Si 0,000m this year and that the provision for multilateral bilateral aid and assistance to Papua New Guinea as a separate amount comes to only $220m we can appreciate that this amount really is not very adequate when put against the projected defence expenditure of SI, 300m and the talk of a 5-year programme for defence. I think the Government has been very wise to talk about the defence programme for the next 5 years and not the defence programme for the last 5 years, which included the Fill aircraft as its central piece and linchpin. But, be that as it may, if we were occasionally to ask ourselves what we are defending ourselves against, as we always seem to be asking ourselves what will we defend ourselves with, I think a more sympathetic attitude would be adopted to this problem of aid to undeveloped countries. 
I have been very gratified in recent times to note the development in Victoria - I presume it is taking place in other States as well - among the churches collectively on an ecumenical basis of an organisation called Action for World Development. Quite a number of groups along these lines have been established in the metropolitan area of Melbourne. I think some must have been established in Queensland, too, because I have received an invitation to take part in talks of some kind at the Brisbane University in September on this subject. 1 think the people of Australia realise that whatever .their internal problems and whatever the deficiencies may be in the quality of life there are other countries whose lot is very much worse than our own. I think there is a genuine feeling now that aid and trade and international arrangements generally should be on a more systematic basis than has been the case in the past. The kind of measure that is now before us is a practical way of encompassing this because when a country has to mobilise expenditures of some millions of dollars for individual projects often charitable or ad hoc assistance is not adequate to fill the need. The Asian Development Bank came into existence out of a recognition of that kind of difficulty, that if areas like Indonesia, South East Asia and even Ceylon and India are to raise their per capita standards, they can do it only with a certain amount of technical and other assistance from the more advanced countries. 
What we must protect ourselves against is the suggestion of what is occasionally called by the rather nasty name of neo colonialism. This assistance must be provided primarily for the good of the people in the countries concerned rather than for the benefit of large scale interests outside those countries. Sometimes we may be able to encompass the improvement of these individual countries only by that sort of assistance. Nevertheless it is a problem of the mobilisation of capital from countries which have a certain surplus of it and it should be devoted to ends in those countries. The 'Economist' of 18th March 1972 in its section called 'Business Brief contains a table of the wealth league and sets out the gross national product per head in 1969, which was the last year that statistics for all countries were available. The figures are expressed in American dollars. Australia had a per capita standard of about $US2,500. Indonesia's per capita standard is measured in a figure less than SUS50. Even though Indonesia has a population about 8 times that of Australia, its gross national product is still several times less than ours. One thus begins to get some indication of the disparities. It is not possible for those countries to lift themselves up entirely by their own bootstraps, although the lesson in all economic development is that most ultimate development must be generated internally. This is what makes the degree of assistance that can be given so much more significant. It is hot a question of just giving to poor countries what you do not want yourself. There still is sometimes too much of that attitude - that the rich give to the poor what the rich feel they can do without. 
No. I am simply generalising that in some respects this unfortunately still is the attitude - the sort of thing typified hundreds of years ago in Charles Dickens's novel about the generous ladies of London who wanted to make handkerchiefs for the Hottentot. It will not be possible to make the decade of the 1970s a decade of development with that kind of attitude. At least this kind of institutional arrangement is an acknowledgment of that but there still sometimes is too much of a tendency to think that, because one gives a few shillings or a few dollars away, one has discharged all one's responsibilities to one's less fortunate neighbours. Real improvements will not come that way and until there can be a substantial degree of improvement in resolving these disparities the likelihood is that the tension between world groups will continue. This was very well expressed many years ago by a former Prime Minister of New Zealand,  Mr Walter  Nash, when he said that poverty anywhere was a threat to prosperity everywhere. I think there is a lot in that argument. The Pearson report and other surveys have come to that kind of conclusion. The Opposition is pleased that Australia has decided to increase its subscription to the Bank. I understand that until a certain number of countries ratify this kind of arrangement the Bank cannot get the extra capital which it so urgetly needs. In one way, I am sorry that this Bill was held over and that it was not passed when it was introduced in the Autumn session. 
All I can say about the second speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is that it was not an improvement oh his first speech. Whatever are the merits of the 35-hour week, Australia's present economic ills have nothing to do with the 35-hour week. That applies both to farm and factory. I want to say a few words about one or two matters to which the Treasurer has just referred. I hope he will pay me the courtesy of remaining in the chamber to hear me since he made an attack. The Treasurer referred to defence and I want now to address myself to the Government's defence effort. In 1963-64 the Fills were ordered supposedly as the linchpin of Australia's defence system. Since the Fills were ordered, in the period from 1963-64 to the projected 1972-73 $9,878m has been expended on defence in Australia, including the sum set aside for defence expenditure this year. We are now told that we might get 6 of the Fills ordered. This is the sort of government that is asking us now to trust it for the next 5 years with another plan involving the spending of $7,000m on defence. 1 suggest that we ought to be talking about the Government's past defence effort. I do not have any more time to go into that subject now. 
I want to nail a misrepresentation of what I said about taxation. I said at a gathering, and I have said it on many occasions before, that not only the question of taxation  rates  has to be considered but also the question of taxation deductions. I have taken as a sort of parameter the tabulation in a document that was circulated the other evening setting out details of income tax statistics for the year ended June 1970. The Treasurer, taking his figure, drew the line at $4,000 annual income. What he did not say was that more than two-thirds the number of taxpayers have incomes of less than $4,000 and slightly less than one-third have incomes in excess of $4,000. Therefore, if there is any equity in the system of taxation deductions surely something like 70 per cent of the total number of taxpayers ought to get more than 55 per cent of the deductions.' But that is the figure which the Treasurer has given. 
What' I did say in another place was that the majority of taxpayers in Australia would be advantaged if we doubled the concession for families - that is for wives and children - and eliminated all other deductions. I simply gave that example as a parameter, to highlight the injustice and to show- anyone can read this-that by near enough to coincidence, the value of all concessions covering the deductions for 'dependants and housekeeper* . for all taxpayers whose incomes are less than $4,000 comes to $463m. That is the face, value of concessions. The face value of insurance deductions allowed to taxpayers with incomes over $4,000 is $474m. In other words, more tax concessions are given to fewer than onethird of the number - that is, those taxpayers earning over $4,000 a year - in respect of life insurance and superannuation than are given for all of the family claims of taxpayers earning under $4,000. 
I ask: What is the justice in that kind of thing? Where is the logic in it? What is the basis for allowing, as the Government belatedly has done now, a deduction of $364 for a wife, but $1,200 if a person is lucky enough to be able to save for life insurance? This is what I am trying to draw attention to. Surely taxation, in the finish, is about equity. I do not have time this evening to go into the schedules. What I want to talk about is the disastrous state of the economy at the moment. But I would just like to put a question to those who would seek to justify the increases in concessions and the variations that are to be made. 
Taking the Treasurer's own tabulations, I would like to put forward the example of a taxpayer with a dependent wife and 2 children under 16 years of age. If bis actual income - not his taxable income - is $2,800, which is S54 a week after the so-called tax concessions, that man still pays in tax $163.57 a year, or over $3 a week. On the other hand, take, for example, people like members of parliament whose taxable income is $10,000. After the concessions people in this category would pay tax of $2,521. A man on this salary, as a consequence of the proposed taxation measures, will receive a tax reduction of $295 which is more than the man on the lower income is paying in tax. 
I simply ask honourable members to think of that kind of example. Do honourable members believe that in this day and age. with prices rising as they are, a married man with a dependant wife and 2 children who receives an income of $54 a week should pay over $3 a week in income tax? I do not believe that he should. I repeat that the Government has fudged its opportunity. Tax reform ought to be from the bottom of the scale up and not from the top of the scale down. At least I thought that I had the other day an intelligent audience who could see for themselves the kind of example that I put forward. But I suppose that one could not expect stockbrokers to see things in quite the same perspective. 
What I want to do this evening is to make an examination of the Australian economy as we can see it at the moment. Despite what the Treasurer said, there is not much difference now between what the Labor Party is proposing and what the Government has proposed in this Budget. There is agreement about eliminating the means test by 1975. I think that is now common to both sides. Both sides believe that the basic pension should be raised. But the Labor Party has gone further than the Government. We suggest that it should be raised as soon as possible to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. But whatever is done, the health of the economy will determine whether these payments are to have real purchasing value. At the moment the health of the economy is not good. I would like to quote briefly a passage in what the Treasurer said - at least it is said in his name - when he introduced th: 1971-72 Budget. Under the heading 'Statement No. 1 - Summary of the 1971-72 Budget' the Treasurer said: 
The 1971-72 Budget has been framed in a context of rapidly increasing costs and prices, a relatively tight labour market and the prospect of increased pressures on resources in the year ahead. 
He predicted in that Budget that there  waa  likely  to  be an increase  of  5 per cent in thu gross national product. What has happened? In the event the increase in the gross national product, instead of being 5 per cent, was 3 per cent. The difference between a growth rate of 5 per cent and a growth rate of 3 per cent at today's inflationary prices is nearly $700m. That, again, is an indication of how incorrect the Treasurer has been and can be. 
The same sort of thing applies to the Treasurer's overall assessment last year. He predicted a domestic surplus of $630m but in the event it was $387m. The Treasurer was only $243m out in his reckoning. My colleague the Leader of the Opposition has pointed out that as recently as last December, the Treasurer still predicted an increase  of  4 per cent in the gross nation il product. He has been $3 60m out in his reckoning in a 6 month's period. But what has he said on this occasion? Again  i  quote his words: 
The Commonwealth Budget for 1972-73 has been framed in the context of an economy already picking up from the moderate rate of growth experienced in 1971-72. 
It is a great thing when one is down in a trough to be able to say that one is climbing ever upwards. Why did the Government ever get down into the trough in the first place is the question that should be asked. The Treasurer continued: 
Features of the economy presently include an easy labour market. . . . 
What is 'an easy labour market'? An easy labour market presumably means that according to the June figures, which were the last figures issued, there were 27,000 males looking for fewer than 5,000 jobs in non-metropolitan areas and 15,000 females in country towns were looking for 2,000 jobs. In the metropolitan areas there were 41,000 males looking for 8,000 jobs and 15,000 females looking for 10,000 jobs. More ladies were on the dole, or were receiving the unemployment benefit in country towns than in all the metropolitan areas. Yet we have a Country Party that backs this Government and tries to score cheap debating points about what the level of unemployment is likely to be in some months time. Surely to goodness the Country Party ought to be concerned about the appalling prospect. This is why I want to take up the words 'easy labour market'. I have said over and over again to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  that not sufficient analysis is being made in Australia of the nature of unemployment. There is an easy labour market, if one likes to use that term, as far as unskilled people and semi-skilled people are concerned but there is still a tight labour market as far as skilled people are concerned and that is the devastating factor that is besetting the Australian economy. 
This Government has somehow to lift the economy and get back into it some feeling of confidence. Until this happens the skills will not be properly utilised as a result of unused capacity in factories. Skilled men are wandering around defence establishments because no orders have been placed to produce equipment, although a boat may be built in 1975 at the naval dockyard. 
This is the kind of thing that is going on at the present time and again it is starkly revealed in a table in the White Paper on national income. I refer to gross fixed capital expenditure and the value of physical changes in stocks at average 1966-67 prices, keeping constant prices to take out of account the effects of inflation. It was the Treasurer who last year talked about private enterprise. If it had not been for good old public enterprise unemployment would have been even greater than it was last year and industrial activity would have been even less than its deplorably low level. This fact is revealed in 3 figures dealing with gross fixed capital expenditure. Reference is made to a growth rate of 3 per cent. What does 'a growth rate of 3 per cent' mean at a time when the population of Australia is rising at about  2i  per cent per annum? It means that the country is barely maintaining its per capita standards and this is in a country with a government which talks glibly about productivity and other things. That was the record for the last year and it was not much better the year before. 
You talk about the need for it but do nothing about it. You will set up another committee which will talk about it. Begin to get some action and talk to the people who matter. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said, get together employers and employees in trustful cooperation, not in confrontation. Measured at constant prices personal consumption expenditure rose by 3 per cent in both 1970-71 and 1971-72, which again is barely maintaining the per capita standards in terms of  2i  per cent population growth. Private gross fixed capital expenditure, valued at constant prices, decreased 3 per cent in 1971-72. This is what the figures show: For the year 1969-70 gross fixed capital expenditure on dwellings was $ 1, 353m; 2 years later, expressed in the same constant prices, it was only $l,386m. There was barely a change in 2 years. Another item about which I want to say more relates to other building and construction, that is, the skyscraper as distinct from the school and hotel as distinct from the hospital. Gross fixed capital expenditure on other building and construction for the year 1969-70 was $990m. This rose to $1,1 18m in 1971-72. The other important item, all other fixed capital expenditure in the private sector, that is, the sort of thing that goes into factories and into making industries more efficient declined in real terms from $2,370m in 1969-70 to $2,298m in 1971-72. Does this sound like a dynamic economy suffering from just temporary restrictions? 
What do the figures show as far as company income is concerned? I will give the current prices. They show that company profits for ordinary companies are lower now than they were 2 years ago. In a separate section, the profits of finance companies rose from $226m to $246m. Is not this an indication that interest and other components are dictating the turn of things rather than physical activity? I noted a report yesterday of an address by a  Mr 
John Patterson to a group of planners in Melbourne. He said that we were threatened with considerable over-building in the capital cities. He suggested that some of the large development companies could crash in the next few years. Surely this is the sort of thing that the Government should be looking at. 
The 1972 report of the Reserve Bank of Australia states at page 38: 
During recent years, the growth of short term financing outside the banking sector has been very rapid (rates of growth of banks and some other major types of financial intermediaries are compared in graph 17). The most rapid growth, perhaps apart from that of authorised dealers in the short term money market, has occurred in the less formalised markets (such as merchant banking and the inter-company market) for which precise measures of growth are unavailable. 
Why are precise measures of growth unavailable? They are unavailable because the Government is not sufficiently concerned to look into the matter. We are faced at the moment not only with a threat internally to our economy but also a threat to the value of our currency internationally. Surely there ought to have been a little bit of a discussion on this kind of thing. But I have not the time this evening to go into it in depth. What I . think we have in Australia at the moment is what Professor Henderson recently described in a lecture given in Melbourne as 'too much instant government' - acting when the crisis is on you instead of preparing to avoid a crisis. This is the situation as far as the Australian economy is concerned. I think my favourite quotation about a Budget is one that I came across only recently in the Economist' just after the British Budget had been delivered. This is what the writer said: 
A modern budget is a major political occasion- 
If ever it was a major political occasion it was last week when the Treasurer and his Government provided a display which was showy in the window but very shoddy in the shop - an exercise in redistribution of a rather small part of the national income- 
This Government chose 2 redistributions - an increase in pensions and an adjustment to the means test, and an adjustment to the tax structure. But I do not think it gave much thought to redistribution when it looked at the tax structure. The article continued: and nowadays also an arithmetical and economic guess. 
I would hope that we in this country will be mature enough not to believe that something which is done on the second or third Tuesday of the month of August by the great man, the Treasurer - I say that with all humility, whatever the portents for the future may be - will produce out of a hat overnight assorted varieties which will set the economy right. My Leader is again correct in saying that what Australia wants is purpose in public policies and confidence restored in the exercise of private investment. This Government has not got either of them at the moment. There exists an aimlessness and paralysis which affects the totality of the Australian economy. My point is borne out in the statistics which 1 have quoted. 
I will refer to what seems to me to be a rather curious statement which appears in one of the documents tabled with the Budget Speech and which bears on the question of taxation. There has been a I0 of talk about taxation concessions amounting to about $480m somehow rejuvenating the economy. To begin with it will be felt only by pay-as-you-earn taxpayers on 1st September and the bonuses to most people on smaller incomes are quite small. Provisional and other taxpayers will feel no effect until March, April or May of next year. 
The other thing that is not said is that even though nominally there is a reduction of $486m in aggregate in tax received from the same taxpayers, $400m more will be collected after the reductions come into effect than was collected last year. The White Paper on national income shows that last year income tax collections rose by 19 per cent. Why did income tax collections rise by 19 per cent? Prices and wages did not rise by as much as that. Income tax collections rose because a larger part of one's income is taken as one's income rises. So there is this so-called sleight of hand trick of the Treasurer on this occasion in relation to the new tax rates. Let us take these examples. If a man receiving about $3,600 gets a 9 per cent increase in his wage he will then be paying as high a marginal rate of tax, even with the reduced schedules, as he was before the tax rate was reduced. This illustrates the sort of nonsense that one hears about reductions. The Government sticks on a  2i  per cent or 5 per cent levy and then takes it off. I notice that this time, when comparing the so-called new schedule with the old schedule, the Government has reduced the tax rate without removing the 21 per cent levy. So there is very little difference, to take the Government's figure, in marginal tax on an income of $3,600. The Government says that the marginal rate is now 26.8c in the dollar. It used to be 28.8 so there is less than the suggested 10 per cent reduction. Similarly, where the marginal rate is now 30.3 it used to be 31.9. This simply means that if a man receives a 9 per cent increase in his salary he will be paying as much tax as he was before the reduction in the tax rate. 
What has been happening in relation to wages? Last year the gross national product in nominal terms - that is, at current prices - rose from $33 billion to $36.5 billion, in round figures, an increase of $3.5 billion. But over 2 billion of that $3.5 billion was puff - it was increased prices. It costs that much more to buy the same goods and services at the new prices at the end of the year as it did at the beginning. This is why these 2 problems of unemployment and inflation are closely related. The great dilemma in a modern industrial economy where most people work for a wage for their living is that the wage is the income to the recipient and is a cost to the person by whom he is employed. The prosperity of the economy depends on expanding consumer expenditure and that is the thing that has been in rapid decline in Australia in recent years. Of course, the Government's only device is to blame the wicked trade unionists for seeking wage increases. As the statistics show, despite all the organisation and agitation, they have barely maintained their proportionate share of the gross national product. 
I have said over and over again that if prices did not rise wages would not need to be increased as much as they have. But if prices do rise then the only way for the wage earner to maintain his standard of living is to seek a wage increase. The proposition is as simple as that. So as well as making an attempt to regulate wages the Government also should do something about prices. The Treasurer did not refer to a price justification tribunal but to a price notification tribunal, and there is a great difference. What does he mean by 'notification'? Does he mean that the Government simply trusts the big boys in the business world to raise their prices and carefully notify the Government after they have done it or does he mean that they notify the Government in advance and cannot raise their prices until they have justified it. The latter is what I mean by 'price notification'. 1 happened to be in the United States not many weeks ago when the Chrysler organisation wanted to increase the price of its motor cars by 5 per cent. However to have done it Chrysler would have had to put its bookkeeping in detail before the Prices Notification Board. Chrysler had second thoughts and decided that it would not want a 5 per cent increase, it would want only a 2 per cent increase. But even the 2 per cent increase had to go before the Board for justification. 
That contrasts what happens there with what happens here. Here the motor car firm resists the attempts of its employees to get higher wages - their demands have to be justified somewhere else - but blithely raises the price of its products itself. Surely if the Government is serious about inflation it at least has to do something about some prices. The American system, insofar as it seems to be working, is working mainly on the basis that it is believed that it is only the bigger concerns that they have to be worried about first. They are too much a law unto themselves and therefore cannot just increase prices. They have to ask and an increase has to be justified. We in the Australian Labor Party believe that that sort of system is required in Australia. Unless we get back into our economy the dynamism it should have - and our economy should be capable of a growth rate of 5± per cent instead of 3 per cent which is the difference between $900m and S750m annually - we will only have to pay higher social service benefits to some people at the expense of the rest. However, if we increase the cake we will all get more. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I do not very often speak on the motion for the adjournment of this House. In something like 20 years I think that I have spoken on it on about 3 occasions. But I feel impelled to speak tonight because of the systematic attempt that seems to be made for what I could not call anything else but grandstanding on the part of the Australian Country Party in order to raise what must be at any stage a very significant matter, and that is the exchange rate of one's own country or, if you like, the purchasing power of one's own currency relative to that of other countries. 
Of course, this all began with the presentation of the report of the Resereve Bank and, after all, the Reserve Bank is either the left hand or the right hand of the Government. If any rebuke for starting speculation as to what might happen about the exchange rate is justified it ought to be laid at the door of the Reserve Bank. I am one who believes that there ought to be intelligent discussion about matters of this kind, but people on either side of politics should not make statements which might provoke a situation over which often we do not have a great deal of control. 
It is a bit like the question of the 35- hour week. Whatever is wrong with the canned fruit industry or with the apple and pear industry exists whatever the exchange rate is, and clearly the present exchange rate can be varied by this Government if it wants to do so. Whether currencies should be slightly appreciated or slightly depreciated is a matter that involves a considerable number of factors, and I think that members of the Country Party are doing no service to this very central problem by handling it in the way they did this evening. I can see a subtle attempt being made to try to take the mind of the public off sins that have been committed for a long time now by talking about some matters which have not happened yet but which might happen. People may differ on this question, and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  is as entitled to his opinion about what might happen as is anybody else. What does the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  think about the present value? 
There you are. Is the honourable member prepared now to have an argument about devaluation? Is he prepared to have a debate about devaluation and revaluation or does he want just to stay put? If members of the Country Party are not prepared to come out and say what they think ought to be done, I think they are just humbugs. This evening they have certainly attempted to take out of context something that was said last evening. As the Leader of the Country Party.  (Mr Anthony)  read out today, the Leader of my Party was asked to comment on something that had been said by the Reserve Bank. Why do not members of the Country Party level some criticism at the Resereve Bank? Fortunately,  they  have more control over the Reserve Bank than they have over the Leader of the Opposition. The Reserve Bank is an instrument of the Australian Government. The fact that monetary matters perhaps have not been managed very satisfatorily in Australia is probably the seat of many of the difficulties that have been raised tonight. 
I am surprised at the honourable member for Murray, who is a new member, because f know that he is just on a band wagon tonight. I can almost see the instructions that apparently go out to the Parties. I have heard tonight what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said about something at an address somewhere or other. I am a little bit flattered to learn that what I apparently say casually or to provoke discussion is somehow regarded as holy writ, while something that the Treasurer says one night may be accepted as writ although on the following day it may be looked on as un-writ. I have been very careful about what I have said on this question of the interest rates on a good number of times when the matter has been delicate. I have not jumped in to say that I disagreed with the Treasurer or with the Government about certain things. 
I hope there will be less of the kind of talk we have heard tonight, because if anything helps to precipitate a rush on or a crisis about a currency it is people beginning to talk about whether it may go up or it may go down. Nobody in Australia knows at the moment whether the high level of reserves we have is influenced by speculative capital coming into the country. I would hope that when better international monetary arrangements are evolved the speculators will be cut out. I do not think there is anything worse as a social phenomenon than people speculating about the future of international exchanges. International exchanges should primarily be concerned with trade. If the honourable members of the Country Party had devoted their attention to what are the fundamental things wrong with the canned fruits industry in terms of trade they would have known that the position of the industry will not be varied much if there is a minor adjustment of the exchange rate. 
I would say that the industries they are talking about have been more influenced in the last 3 or 4 years by the fact that inflation last year was running at the rate of 6 per cent and the year before 5 per cent. Inflation influences costs of production and narrows the margin between whatever price the producer finally gets and what he calls income. To wrap it around words upon which you can put different interpretations is a very poor exercise on the part of both the Liberal Party and the Country Party members here. I hope they have a little bit more respect for the importance of the integrity of the currency of one's country. 
He was merely saying that, taking into account the views that he had been able to discuss, he thought that the likelihood was that there would be appreciation rather than depreciation. 
The Minister for the Army says that there should be a depreciation. Do all members of the Country Party support that point of view? If they do let us have a full scale debate in this House about whether or not the Australian currency should be depreciated. But if someone says that it might be appreciated and members of the Country Party try to make capital out of that I think it shows how poverty-stricken their record in the past has been. 
1 seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been misrepresented not only by the Minister for Education and Science who has just sat down but also by quite a number of those on the other side of the House. I should like to clarify what, in fact, . I have said, which is a matter of quite demonstrable fact from the statistics which the Government publishes, namely, that more taxpayers would be better off in Australia if family allowances were doubled and all other deductions were eliminated. That is a statement of fact. I have not at- any stage suggested that that is what would be done. Surely if anybody has any sense of responsibility about statements and about words, to deduce from what has been given as an example and which, to my mind, crystallises precisely the degree of inequity in the present structure, and to suggest that what has been cited as an example is to be a pattern to be followed simply indicates the lack of logic not only of the Minister but also of others who have been prepared to accept the statement. It seems to me that there is a lie factory in the Liberal Party which is simply handing out - one can see it in the patterns of the speeches - selected statements from people on this side of the House and putting their own interpretation upon them. As I said the other evening, it is flattering to me that something which has been said casually is acknowledged as holy writ the next day, but that anything the Government says one night can be 'unwrit' the next day. 
I am  sorry  that the Income Tax Bill should have been delayed so long. It  is  a Bill that determines the rates  of  income tax that shall apply on individuals for the period ended June 1973. The other Bill, the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4), covers adjustments made to the principle of assessment. In aggregate, the tax that will  be  imposed under this measure, according to the Budget estimate, is $4, 208m. 1 understand that, after an elevating debate of nearly 2 hours on 2 very minor matters, we will now  be  restricted  in  this debate to not much more than 2 hours. In the course  of  the Budget debate there has been a lot  of  discussion about the so-called tax reductions that are to be included in this measure. I want to give some figures showing broadly what the increase in taxation has been in Australia since the time of the last election, a period of nearly 3 years. I quote from Statement no. 7 attached to the Budget Speech, Table 1 - Summary of Commonwealth Expenditure and Receipts, 1962-63 to 1971-72 and 1972-73 (Estimate). 
The period I want to look at is the period ended June 1969 to the period ended June 1972. That table shows that for the financial year ended just before the last election - the last election was held in November 1969 - the total collections by the Commonwealth from all sources of taxation amounted to $5,466,303. For the year ended 30th June 1972 - the last completed year - the aggregate tax collections amounted to $7,843,927. In other words, in the life of this Parliament the aggregate increase in Commonwealth taxation has been about $2, 378m, an increase of 45 per cent on the total collections at 30th June 1969. That increase is more than can be accounted for by the increased number of people to be serviced. The Australian population rises by about 24 per cent per annum. Something like 8 per cent to 9 per cent more people had to be serviced at the end of June 1972. In that period prices have increased by an aggregate of about 14 per cent. The total tax collections have increased by 45 per cent. 
We have heard a lot of nonsense this afternoon in the Budget debate and in earlier debates about the so-called tax reductions of this Budget in particular. Bad and all as the aggregate collections are, 1 want to draw particular attention to the income tax itself. When the last election was being fought, the aggregate collected in income tax for the period ended 30th June1969 was about $2. 379m. For the year ended 30th June 1972 - 3 years later - the total tax collections for income tax on individuals had increased from about $2, 379m to about$3,768m, an increase of about $1,3 89m or 60 per cent. I repeat that over that period the number of people to be serviced increased by something like 8 per cent and prices increased by something like 14 per cent while the total increase in taxation collections was 60 per cent. Even after the so-called tax reductions of this 
The income tax ought to be the crown of the tax pattern of a democratic system of government. The income tax structure, in regard to both the rate and the concession deduction, is rotten with inequity. I want to state categorically and 1 want to have this matter evaluated properly in the so-called intelligent atmosphere of the House of Representatives. I had to make a personal explanation here this afternoon. 1 gave an example which simply indicates the reality of the tax pattern in Australia. I gave the example merely to highlight the inequities in the system. Certain unscrupulous people on the Government side - I described them this afternoon as the lie factory of. the Liberal Party - have formed a sort of secretariat and are circulating excerpts from speeches made by the shadow Minister for Health, the shadow Minister for Trade and by me. They are taken out of context and are used to indicate the terrible fate that will overtake this country if there is a change of government. We will be inflicted, we are told, with excessive taxation. I simply say again - to repeat the 2 examples - that in the life of this Parliament aggregate taxation has increased by 45 per cent and income tax by 60 per cent. If the reductions which we are contemplating in taxation rates set out in these Bills had not been made, the aggregate increase in one year alone on income tax would have been 25 per cent. 1 do not believe that after 23 years of Liberal government we have the right pattern of taxation in Australia, that every body is just paying precisely what they should be paying, that everything that is being taxed is taxed at the appropriate rate and that even some sources of income which should be subject to tax are not being taxed at all. Surely that is what the argument on tax reform is all about. I refer to the example which I gave in Sydney. The figures are now one more year up to date because of the document tabled in. this House with the Budget entitled 'Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics'. I sought leave earlier from the Minister in charge of this Bill to incorporate in Hansard 2 tables and he acceded to my request. 
One table is a tabulation by grades of actual income of all taxpayers in Australia for the period ended 30th June 1970. The first table shows that for that year, taking a dividing line of incomes above $4,000 per annum - this is actual income - which is near enough to $77 a week, what was called average weekly earnings was slightly in excess of $77. Yet the statistics show that of the 5,372,000 taxpayers only 1,528,000 or 28.4 per cent, which is slightly more than a quarter of all taxpayers, had incomes in excess of $77 a week. So despite what is sometimes said, Australia is by no means an affluent society as far as a large number of its citizens is concerned. 
The other table is rather more significant. It deals with what are called concessional deductions. It sets out the figures in detail. 1 refer honourable members to this document which is set out in the centre page of the booklet 'Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics'. This table shows that those 5,372,000 taxpayers were allowed deductions of various kinds which aggregated $3.25 billion. But again, using the same dividing line which I used before - incomes above $4,001 and incomes below that figure - of the total deductions of $3,257,000,000 over onehalf, or about $1,867,000,000 went to that section of the taxpayers who had incomes exceeding $77 a week. One-quarter of the taxpayers got over 50 per cent of the deductions that were allowed. The particular deduction to which 1 drew attention in Sydney was the deduction for life insurance and superannuation which for the period ended June 1970 aggregated $700m. Over one-fifth of all the deductions allowed to all taxpayers was encompassed in this one item, life insurance and superannuation. Of that sum of $700m, an amount of $465m - over two-thirds - went again to that lucky section of taxpayers with incomes in excess of $4,000 per annum. The aggregate of what was allowed for life insurance was the same as all the family deductions for taxpayers who had incomes less than $70 a week in Australia. I used that example and I quote it again as a parameter or a measure of justice. 
It is literally true that more taxpayers would pay less tax if the concessions for families were doubled and every other deduction was eliminated. That is the reality of the situation. 
The honourable member, as usual unscrupulous, asks: 'Do I advocate that?' 1 am not advocating that. I am simply asking this House as a democratically elected body how it justifies allowing a sum of $1,200 per annum whilst it allows deductions of $364 for a wife, $208 for the first child and $156 for other children? What sort of logic is it that allows this Government to arrive at that sort of situation? If a person happens to be in a certain income bracket and he pays $1,200 per annum into life insurance, the tax system underwrites him by as much as $800. Can anybody justify that on any logical basis? Yet, that is what has happened. What we have at the moment is insurance agents hawking what are basically not legitimate life insurance policies. They are saying to the people 'Take a policy on your life for 5 years or 6 years, not for 25 years or 30 years'. 
In essence what happens is that if you put money into a savings bank and get interest on it, you are supposed to include that interest in your taxable income but if you put the money into a life insurance policy and by proxy it is invested for you, at the end of the term of the policy you get back your sum of money with more interest than you would get from a bank and it is free of tax. This sort of thing is costing the revenue of Australia, according to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  something like S250m. He made a facile comparison the other evening that it meant on the average $50 for every taxpayer. It means no such thing. Two-thirds of it goes to one-quarter of the taxpayers, and it is worth more to them because their rate of adjustment is greater because their marginal rate of tax is greater. What I am trying to suggest here this evening - 1 repeat what I said earlier - is that the rates and concessions under the income tax system are rotten with inequities, and it is time that something was done to adjust them. T am not suggesting, and I have not suggested, that we should remove all the inequities immediately. But surely we are entitled to ask: What is the logic of the rates and the concessions? What is the equity in the system? 
The same situation applies at the moment to the so-called rate reductions. Succeeding Treasurers have added  2i  per cent on top of the rate structure. Last year the Treasurer intended to add  2i  per cent, but the Government changed its mind on 1st April - a good day to change its mind. All Fools Day was recognised by the fools and the folly at least acknowledged. But it made in essence an increase in the tax rates that year of something close to 31 per cent. The  2i  per cent levy has now been taken off and a certain amount of adjustment made to the schedules. The adjusted rates can be seen in the document that was tabled by the Treasurer. These were supposed to have been introduced in the interests of the family man on low income. I give an example that 1 quoted the other evening in the course of my speech on the Budget. I simply took as an example a man with a dependent wife and 2 children who was enjoying the magnificent income of $54 a week. I think if we asked whether that man should pay any income tax most people would say no. What in fact does he pay? Under theses proposals he will still pay, after these reductions, the sum of $163.57. Does the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  think that is equitable? That is the pattern that exists at the moment. What do honourable members think he ought to pay? I will be categorical. I think he should pay nothing. What I want to see is a system that reforms the tax scale from the bottom up, not a system such as this one which reforms from the top down. 
Take members of Parliament, who have an income of a little less than $10,000 per annum, if they have no source of income other than their salary. Presumably an Assistant Minister, might get some other kinds of inducement. But on a- salary of $10,000 a member will now pay $2,521.78 in tax. Do honourable members think that is too much? If they think it is too5 much, do they think they are paying too much in comparison with the man with an income of $2,800 with a wife and 2 children who is still paying over $3 per week? Surely this is what arguments about the equities of taxation are about. They are not about whether, when reductions are made, everybody should get a bonanza out of the system. 
The amount of tax is one thing in relation to the total needs of the community, but how the burden of taxation is distributed among the various citizens of the community is a separate matter. I submit that that is the matter the Government has ignored over a long period of time. We are having trotted out in this House- humbug about reducing taxes in an election year. I hark back to 3 years ago when Government members were campaigning on the hustings, saying 'Elect us to Government, and at the end of 3 years the total yield from income tax will rise by 60 per cent and the total yield from all taxes will increase by 45 per cent.' That in fact is what happened. Of course, like anything else, it has increased because of inflation, because there are more people in the community and, fortunately, because of some increase in standards in the community. 
The Government yesterday gave a miserable miscalculated catalogue of what the  Labor  Party's proposals will cost. What is the difference in the total economy between the Government abolishing the means test by 1975 and the Labor Party abolishing it by 1975? The problem is the  same  for both sides. Surely the argument for the next 3 years should be about the potential of the Australian economy for the next 3 years. What are the sorts of things that the economy is supposed to do? How can a government improve education unless it spends more money? How can it improve country towns and the quality of life in them and how can it reduce crowding  in  cities unless it spends more money? How can it improve public transport except by spending more money? How can it pay more pensions to more people with higher real standards except by spending more money? Unless the country has a proper and an expanding economy, which it does not have at the moment, all these propositions are a mockery. 
We have heard what the Government will do about an exchange rate which might vary by 1 per cent or 2 per cent, but we have heard nothing about the inflation which took 6 per cent from every income last year, 5 per cent the year before and which will take an anticipated 5 per cent this year. Inflation is reflected also in the tax yields. I should hope that there will be at least a proper analysis of what people on given incomes should pay in income tax, not this wretched, threadbare, dishonest argument which the Government uses to support its claim that it has reduced taxes. All the Government has done is to remove some of the fat and redistribute it the wrong way. Even though the Government is reducing tax, the yield will still go up. 
I ask honourable members to read the tabulation that was circulated by the Treasurer and note  the  marginal rates of tax. Consider the problem of those who  attain  the level of average weekly earnings. By the end of this year average weekly earnings will be near enough to $100 a week or $5,200 per annum. The marginal rate of tax on an additional $1 earned by the average wage earner is 331 per cent - that is, one-third of it will be taken despite the so-called tax reductions. And 85 per cent to 90 per cent of taxpayers of Australia are wage earners who cannot split their incomes. A skilled tradesman earning $5,200 per year will pay the full amount of tax on his earnings. But a person who owns a farm and earns $5,200 per year income and who divides his income into 2 incomes of $2,600, as he legitimately may, is in a different tax bracket. The tabulation shows that the tax payable on one income of $5,200 a year is $983.90. But make 2 incomes, each of $2,600, and the total tax burden is $552. 
That is the kind of thing that is going on in the tax structure at the moment. It is called income splitting. J hope that the Treasurer will remember this when he tries to make some capital out of what I said merely by way of example. He floated this concept of family taxation. In the United States of America, for instance, a married couple with one income can opt to have that income treated as 2 incomes. That is why it is difficult to make comparisons between what happens in one country and what happens in another. There is no doubt that in Australia at the moment, even after these tax reductions, the married man with a nonworking wife and with children to support is still paying too much tax. To suggest that if he pays less somebody must pay more is introducing another kind or proposition. We are looking at the structure of the income tax. This is another occasion on which the Government has missed an opportunity. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  as long ago as when he was Treasurer, said that he wanted to make a fundamental adjustment to the tax structure, particularly income tax. Three years later the Government has come up with this bowdlerised version that still reeks of injustice. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Staley), La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and one or two other honourable members. At about this time last night the honourable member for Chisholm said that I had been incorrect and tonight, as you know, the honourable member for La Trobe said that I had misrepresented him. I wish to put the record straight and I was wondering whether this would be an appropriate time for me to make a personal explanation and clarify the matter. I do not want to be unjust to the honourable members concerned. As the proceedings are being broadcast I thought that this is when I should take this course. 
This amending Bill alters only very slightly the sales tax provisions; it removes from the sales tax schedule imported works of art when the value of a work of art exceeds S50 Previously works of art bore sales tax. The reduction in the total yield will be slight: $480,000 this financial year and $600,000 in a full year. This is the only adjustment to this tax which this year, it is estimated, will yield $736,520,000 and which in the previous year yielded $682,801,000. As one of my colleagues pointed out recently, when the aggregate of the sales tax revenue is divided by the total population of Australia it emerges that every man, woman and child bears a burden of about $60 in sales tax. This is an indirect tax, the impact of which often is not known by the person who bears it because the tax is concealed in the price of the product. The wholesaler includes it in the charge that he makes to the retailer, and the tax becomes simply part of the price, be it for a motor car, cosmetics or any other article. In his annual reports, the Commissioner of Taxation does give some indication of the various categories of goods on which sales tax is levied. There are a great number of exemptions from sales tax. Most foodstuffs are excluded from sales tax, quite a lot of clothing is excluded and so on, but the tax itself is divided into 4 categories -  2i  per cent, 121 per cent, 15 per cent and 27i per cent. The tax on the highest category yields nearly half of the total tax collected. The other major group for the purposes of this tax contains those articles which bear tax at the rate of 15 per cent. 
The supplement to the 49th report of the Commissioner of Taxation titled Taxation Statistics' shows these figures in some detail at page 190 and I do not intend to quote them in detail. But, like so many other things in the community, there is not a great deal of logic used in deciding what should bear tax and what should not bear tax. The Opposition has quoted often enough in this house - almost ad nauseam at times - the fact that there is a tax on toilet soap but not on dog soap. I think that is the prime example of the lack of logic in those categories. We have had substantial representations from the toilet goods manufacturers seeking total exemption of their goods from sales tax because the products that they sell could hardly be regarded as being in the category of luxuries. They are what the female of the species believes is necessary for her adornment. They give her pleasure and, apparently, they make her more pleasurable to others. Of course, even the males nowadays seem to want to smell nicer than they apparently used to smell. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  indicated in his Budget Speech, the purpose of this measure is to increase by $4m or double, the capital of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation which was established, I think, in 1956 and which has been a highly successful undertaking in its comparatively short life. The Corporation has worked since its inception to extend the variety of Australian trade overseas and last year, according to its nicely presented statement of annual accounts, it was successful in earning quite a substantial profit, although basically the purpose of such an organisation is not to make large profits but to render a service to those who call upon it at near enough to the cost of the service thereby provided. I am not quite clear about the reason for the doubling of the capital. Basically, I have no objection to the capital being doubled, but when one looks at the balance sheet and sees that some S8m worth of Commonwealth securities at cost are tied up in the organisation, one sometimes wonders why the extra capitalisation is necessary. In many respects it seems to be a bit of Tweedledum and Tweedledee. About S8m of Commonwealth securities are held as an asset and the Commonwealth, out of its funds sometimes acquired from taxation and loans, pays a further $4m capitalisation. I have no doubt that it makes the balance sheet look somewhat more prestigious and I suppose it gives a larger underwriting reserve than otherwise might be the case. 
We have had this measure before us for amendments of one kind or another. I can recall at least half a dozen debates on it in this House, and I think I have taken part in most of them since this worthy institution was set up. Usually the purpose of the amendments has been to diversify the range of risk that the Corporation was able to undertake. Let us consider how infrequently losses are incurred and the sorts of reasons why they are incurred. The annual report on page 11 shows that there were 32 exchange transfer losses in the category of 'political losses'. According to the notation, political losses aggregated $52 1,860 and arose from delays in transfer of funds to Australian exporters after buyers had paid their debts in local currency. The report says: 
Turkey accounted for the bulk of these claims and the balance involved Nigeria, Dominican Republic, Chile and Syria. 
In all of those countries unforeseen political events took place. The report continues: 
In addition to exchange transfer blockage, the following political and economic risks are covered - import restrictions, cancellation of import licences, war, civil war and other catastrophic events occurring outside Australia. 
I do not know why war and civil war are separated, but they are separated in the text of this report. Then there were further kinds of loss described as 'buyer losses' which amounted to about $400,000. The report says: 
Protection is afforded by the Corporation against losses of a commercial nature which arise from buyer insolvencies, default of payment by solvent buyers and repudiation of contracts. 
The principal cause of loss was the protracted default of solvent buyers which accounted lor $336,426. Payments due to insolvencies were 366,416 whilst contract repudiation payments totalled $14,382. In all, 52 claims were paid for S4 17,224 involving 23 markets. 
No doubt symptomatic of the downturn in the woollen manufacturing industry throughout the world, claims paid on wool exports represented 80 per cent of the total and were particularly heavy in South Korea with defaults also occurring in Italy, Mexico, Taiwan and the United States of America. 
Had it not been for this sort of undertaking and the knowledge that somebody would underwrite the loss, other ventures that were successful in those countries might not have been undertaken. For that reason at least, I think that the organisation serves a very useful purpose. 
It seems to me that the provision of long term credit to overseas buyers of the sorts of goods in Australia that might be described as capital goods should be extended. I have in mind such things as Australian commercial aircraft or other sorts of aircraft which could be sold to other countries. Here Australia seems to be at a disadvantage. This applies also with regard to earthmoving equipment and other mechanical pieces that can be made in Australia. Because other countries are able to offer better terms of credit, those other countries get the order. It is not because the product is superior but because the terms for financing the sale are more satisfactory. Over a good number of years we have noted in this House that when Australia purchases aircraft via loans to Qantas Airways Ltd or via the assistance that is given to Ansett Airlines of Australia, many of the transactions are assisted in the United States of America by a body known as the Export Import Bank. That Bank enables a transaction to take place that in other circumstances might have to be finalised within a period of, say, 18 months to 2 years. It allows the payment to be made over a period of anything from 8 to 10 years and the money is advanced at rates which in these days are low - about 6 per cent. 
I would suggest that, in view of the apparent abundance of liquidity in Australia at the moment, a little more imagination might be used to create in Australia something similar to the Export Import Bank of the United States. This would assist Australian trade particularly with countries like Indonesia, India and Malaysia where we could be of great assistance in providing the capital equipment that is so necessary for those economies to expand and to improve their function. A number of business people have spoken to me about this deficiency. As I said earlier, it seems that there is nothing wrong with the products we have but there is a lot wrong with the terms of credit that we are able to extend. I have raised this matter before in this House on similar occasions. At this stage it is not a function of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation which is a different kind of body and does not have the financial resources of the magnitude required. We would need something that could mobilise capital in terms of sums like $50m to $100m and perhaps even more on some contracts. We would be able to pay off the manufacturer in Australia. He would be able to get on with his other activities of producing more capital goods and would not have to worry about the finance, which would be carried by somebody else. The interest involved would not be exorbitant. These are the sorts of things that ought to be given greater consideration in Australia. 
We talk about the invasion of our country by foreign investors and so on. I think that sometimes we do not do enough to increase our own export earnings in this longer term kind of capital sale. That would be of benefit to our industry and would also be of benefit immediately to our foreign exchange position. It might even help us to become less reliant upon these unwieldy flows of excessive overseas capital that we are experiencing at present. I hope that in 1973, when there will be a new government in this country, attempts will be made to bridge what I feel is a very real gap at the moment in the credit structure for financing this sort of transaction. 
As I said earlier, we do not oppose the measure that is before us, but we applaud the success of this socialised, Government owned and Government operated undertaking which is able to assist private enterprise to do business that otherwise it might not be able to do. It simply shows that in a systematic economy there is room for public activity and private activity to function alongside each other. There are some people, of course, to whom any kind of public activity is anathema. But the whole history of Australia's economic development, particularly in the transport field, is that a lot of the development that has gone on would never have taken place had it not been for the availability of public capital. This is so even with airways today, despite the talk about private enterprise and the rather curious jest recently that the public's company should have public shareholders. That seems rather a contradiction of terms to say the least. But even the private company in Australia could not function without government assistance of the kind I have mentioned to allow it to buy its aircraft on a long term basis, a pay-as-you-earn type of approach. 
What I am suggesting now is that since that system has been successful internally a little bit of imagination might be turned in the direction of promoting further external trade by offering credit on more satisfactory terms to potential buyers who are satisfied about the quality of the Australian product but dissatisfied about the terms of payment currently offered. We wish this Corporation further expansion in the future in the good work it is doing. I hope that it will be able to expand its activities considerably by reason of the doubling of its capital provision. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who is normally a rather pleasant sort of fellow, seems to have fallen into the bad habit recently of thinking that because he says something twice as loud as necessary he is twice as impressive. I hope that he will learn. He chided one of my colleagues for making a statement when he had been long enough in this place to know the facts. I think that the Minister has been here long enough to do better than this. It would have been nice had we been able to have a debate in this House around the merits of the 35-hour week. All that is being done, of course, is a very sordid attempt on the part of the Government - and I see that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has entered the chamber to take part in the debate - to take the minds of the community off the state of the Australian economy by talking about what might happen when something that we do not have comes about. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the second sentence said of his ministerial statement: 
I  do so because it is a matter of national importance about which the facts should be made clear, and because the campaign for its widespread introduction throughout industry threatens to damage confidence in the economy and in the Government's programme . . . 
I ask honourable members to listen to what is in the Government's programme. The Government's programme is to secure full employment although unemployment in Australia today is higher than it has been for 10 years. The Government is to achieve industrial stability, when the only stability we have is that of industry standing still. The Government is to promote economic growth and price stability although last year the gross national product increased by 3 per cent, the population increased by  2i  per cent and prices rose by 6 per cent. Finally he said: 'We want to secure a better quality of life for all people'. Tell that to the million or so pensioners who are merely existing, and to the 250,000 wage earners with dependent wives who live on incomes of less than $60 a week, which is the case in Australia today. A lot of nonsense is spoken particularly by members of the Australian Country Party. Are the ills that assail the rural industries in Australia today anything to do with the 35-hour week? I believe, if you want my opinion- 
Maybe honourable members opposite do not like to hear it, but those who favour shorter hours are, in my opinion, on the side of history. What is the nonsense we heard from the Prime Minister? He said: 
As a point of history, the movement over the last half century or so has been from 48 hours to 44 hours. 
If he had gone back a half century before he would have realised that it went from 60 hours to 48 hours. Before then the idea was that factories could not work unless small children crawled into holes that bigger people could not get into. The Prime Minister went on to say that the standard working week went to 40 hours in 1948, at which point it stabilised until recently. Then we had the nonsense that followed. He said: 
Obviously, there cannot be a continuing downward progression in hours because theoretically we would be moving towards the absurd position of no work at all. 
We have at present the absurd position of no work at all for over 100,000 people. If 100,000 people who could have been working 40 hours a week are not working, what difference is there if 800,000 people work 5 hours less? That is putting the thing purely on the plane of nonsense arithmetic. I ask the Prime Minister how he worked it out. He went on to say: 
The increase in the wage bill would be something of the order of $2,500m to $2,600m and, in some circumstances, could exceed $3,000m a year. 
He chides honourable members on this side of the Parliament when somebody talks about 150,000 unemployed or when somebody else talks about 200,000 unemployed. The Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia refers to 250,000. The Prime Minister ranged all the way from $2,500m to $3,000m. How did he arrive at any of the figures? I think he arrived at them by a crude sort of index. Did he say that there, are now roughly 5 million people working, at $500 a head? Did he say that the total wage and salary bill last year was $20,000m and it rose during the year by over $2,000m? Did he arrive at his figures simply by saying that 35 hours instead of 40 hours means a reduction of one-eighth and therefore an increase in total cost of one-eighth? Is that the sort of crude arithmetic with which this question is approached? 
The whole history of industrial development has been the replacement of sheer manpower by horsepower - the putting in of machines instead of men. In the next 10 or 15 years it will be physically possible to produce all the goods and services that the Australian economy wants with a lesser component of labour than is currently the case. There are different ways of facing the social equation. Maybe some people should work a lot of hours and other people should not work at all, but somehow everybody has to have an income. All that is reflected in the Prime Minister's attitude is that in an age of technological change - this is what the gentleman from the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures pointed out - we are not yet prepared to face the fact that many of those people in Australia who are unemployed are unemployable in today's context. This is implicit in the growth of unemployment. What is the Government doing to retrain those people to go somewhere else? 
I do not believe that the answer to the problem of people out of work today is sharing the hours among those out of work and those in work. I think that is a antediluvian approach to the problem. What we face in Australia is a shortage of skilled manpower. We are using skills badly in Australia. One of the difficulties about picking up unemployment quickly - this was adverted to by the Reserve Bank of Australia - is that more people will not be employed in the factories but that the same people will be made to work longer hours, and the unemployed will not be absorbed in that kind of process. The sort of people who are unemployed at present will become employed only as the Australian economy is stimulated. The Government is blithely ignoring this. It will pick up anything out of the rag bag that will take the eyes of the people of Australia off what is actually happening. In a month - certainly in not much more than 2 months - there will be an election in Australia. That election will not be fought on what will happen if we get a 35-hour week in 12 months, 2 years or 3 or 4 years time. The election ought to be fought on the Government's performance in relation to the economy. Honourable members opposite should judge themselves by the sort of things to which the Prime Minister referred. Let me mention them again. He referred to full employment. Does anybody on that side of the House believe that full employment exists in Australia today? The Prime Minister believes it. 
He said that he wants to secure industrial stability. Does he mean by 'industrial stability' that there will not be any strikes? I mean by 'industrial stability' that there will be a growing and expanding economy. Last year, private fixed investment - the things that go into factories to make them work faster - actually fell in real terms. The Prime Minister referred to economic growth and price stability. This  has been the worst year for 10 years as far as per capita growth is concerned, and the worst year for many years as far as inflation is concerned. He talked about a better quality of life for all people. I suggest that these are some of the things on which the election will be fought. No longer will it be possible for motor car manufacturers to make motor cars only in the way they want to make them. No longer will it be possible for those in industry to make emissions and cause pollution without having some public restriction placed upon them. 
From looking at the unemployment figures one realises that schools are still turning out people with talents apparently developed that no-one wants. At the other extreme, industry still has demands that are not being provided for by the system. The kind of thing that will be required in this economy in the years ahead is the planning of the total activities of the economy, not just letting things drift hopelessly along, hoping that something will turn up. Modern economies do not function on hunches. Modern economies function best when there is a sense of purpose behind them and when all the skills, talents and technological advantages are being utilised. They owe a lot to the quality of education in the long run. The economy expands when those sorts of things are looked at comprehensively and not in bits and pieces. That is the besetting sin at the moment of the Australian economy. It is not anything to do with the hours that may be worked in the future if we orientate our resources properly, which we have not done for the last several years at least. The argument ought to be about the Government's record. Why other than for sordid political reasons is the question of the 35-hour week intruded into this House in the form of a Prime Minister's statement? As my colleague the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said, governments can legislate for their own employees only. It is not within the province of this Parliament to adjudicate upon industry as a whole, standard hours, minimum wages and that sort of thing unless we amend the Constitution. Perhaps that is what the Prime Minister, in his blind way, is suggesting. Perhaps he is suggesting that we should give more power to the Commonwealth Parliament to do this sort of thing. But at the moment he knows, as he knows so many other things upon which he is trying to mislead, that it is not within the competence of a Labor government or any other government to grant a 35-hour week. It is within the province of governments to go in and argue on its behalf if they want to. 
The sort of thing that typifies this Government is that in the default of doing anything about the regulation of prices or solving the inflation problem, it goes into the courts and argues against the justice of workers getting higher wages. I can assure the House that this is one thing that will change tinder a Labor government; we will not go into a court and say that because nothing has been done about prices the worker is not entitled to get some additional increment by way of higher wages As my colleague pointed out, how could we take off the market the goods that the farmers produce or the goods that the factories produce unless there is adequate real purchasing power in the hands of the 90 per cent or so of the people who are classified as wage and salary earners who are losing out in the equation because prices are rising faster than are wages and because real consumer standards are declining and being reflected in the ill health of the economy. 
by leave - This is a highly sensitive and emotive issue in the community, and I must say with all respect that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  or his Department has made a mess of the situation. The Aboriginal embassy, or whatever we called it, stood for a long time outside the precincts of this House. It was suddenly removed under the provisions of an Ordinance which was supposed to have been made within the law. I hope my colleague, the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  will explain this, but it seems astonishing to me that the Minister has blithely come into the chamber tonight, after the Court has made a decision, and announced action which, had he made his decision properly in the first place, would never have been necessary. This matter has gone on for a long time now. It involves a lot of emotive and emotional issues. In a way I am sorry that it ever happened in the first place. But the situation has gone from bad to worse. The glib answer which has been given tonight seems to me really to belittle the total situation. I would like my colleague, the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, to expand on the matter. 
These 2 Bills are part of a series of Bills that come before the Parliament every year either to make additional payments to the States or to vary the formula by which moneys are made available to the States. Under one of the Bills presently before us, what formerly had been regarded as loan funds are to be treated as direct revenue payments from the Commonwealth to the States upon which they no longer will be required to pay interest. lt is becoming extraordinarly difficult in the Australian context to work out the patchwork - I do not know whether it can be better described than that - system of Commonwealth-State finances and, I hope to some degree in the future, CommonwealthStatelocal government finances. For some years now each time the Budget Papers have been brought down a document entitled 'Commonwealth Payments To Or For The States' has appeared with them. It is a very handy document because it compiles in considerable detail the variety of payments that are made by the Commonwealth to or for the States. There is quite an extensive coverage of them. The document for 1972-73 has some 150 closely printed pages and part of it is textual material which indicates the general history of this process. Related tabulations contain details of various heads of expenditure for a number of years. 
In order to show briefly the magnitude of the propositions, I point out that table 1 on page 10 of this document sets out the Commonwealth payments to or for the States and Loan Council borrowing programmes estimated for 1972-73. It gives the actual figures for 1970-71 and 1971- 72. This table shows that total payments one way or another from the Commonwealth sources to the States is $4,084. 9m, which is a pretty substantial part of the revenue that the Commonwealth raises. When one takes out of the total expenditure of $ 10,000m covered by the Budget the $2, 000m odd described as transfer payments - that is, cash payments via the social services stream - and takes into account the $ 1,200m for defence commitments, one finds that in many respects the States in aggregate have far more constitutional activity - if one likes to put it that way - to perform than the Commonwealth. And when one takes into account the fact that the States are still charged with the responsibility for such significant fields as education, health, road making, public transport, irrigation and power development and contrasts with that the limited scope of such functions that the Commonwealth has to perform, one can see that in some respects the great dependence that the States have on central finance perhaps does not make for the best pattern for reconciling the requirements of finance with the actual responsibilities of function. 
The third level of government that perhaps is properly described in the Australian context as the poor relation, the level of local government, receives very little assistance from the Commonwealth. In fact it receives virtually no assistance at all from the Commonwealth but gets a certain marginal amount of assistance from the States. It basically has to rely upon one source of revenue, the property rate.  I  want to say a little about the unsatisfactory nature of this and to refer in passing to a document. I commend those who have prepared it although I do not altogether agree with the conclusions to which they came. It is a document published in February 1971 by a body called the Ratepayers Association of New South Wales. The title of the document is The Case For A Progressive Poll Tax As A Substitute For Local Government Rates'. The report was drawn up by  Mr J.  F. Lesueur, a consulting economist in Dubbo. Very clearly set out on page 11 are the sorts of difficulties of both finance and allocation of functions that are regarded as falling within the purview of local government. The document states: 
The permissive powers- 
That is, the powers mainly of State and local government Acts -   . . enable Councils to engage in and undertake a wide range of activities and enable them to supply a wide range of goods and services. The most important are: 
Roads. The construction, reconstruction and maintenance of roads and the related works; control of the use of roads by certain road users. 
Public Health. The specification, control and policing of minimum standard of home bathroom and laundry facilities; control and inspection of public eating and meeting places, butchers and barber shops; sanitation, sewerage, garbage and night soil removal. 
Public Works other than Roads. The use, control, construction of: water supply, sewerage and drainage facilities, stock sale yards, public markets, parking stations, pounds, cemeteries, ferries, airports, bridges, parking areas. 
Then, under a further functional division, it states: 
Public Services. The control of or support of (bush) fire brigades, the control of advertising hoardings, town planning, public immunisation campaigns, industry development and subsidy schemes, parklands, libraries, orchestras, bands, art galleries, hospitals, rest centres, sporting facilities, camping and caravan areas, tourist information services, ambulances, life saving schemes, kiosks, meals on wheels', and a host of other similar community services. 
Housing. Undertake housing schemes and the financial assistance of home builders, financial assistance to land developers/sub-dividers, approval of erection of buildings subject to minimum building codes; the enforcement of repair and demolition of homes and buildings. 
Trading Undertakings. The supply of electricity, gas, water, abattoirs and community hotels. 
Perhaps it should first be said that not all local councils perform all those functions but many local councils provide a great number of them and they are all provided virtually out of the one source of revenue which is often unfair in its impact, that is, the tax known as the local rate. One of the great difficulties in the field of local authority finance is to get up to date figures. Figures tend to be about 3 years behind in their publication. In the document 'Public Authority Finance 1969-70, Bulletin No. 1' table No. 22, which is entitled 'All Public Authorities: Receipts and Outlay By Level Of Government, 1968-1969', shows that local authorities had available a total tax revenue of $3 54m as against $5,529m available to the Commonwealth in the same year and $859m available to the States. Out of the local authorities tax revenue of $354.6m, $341.7m came from the tax levied on property. In addition the local authorities had an operating surplus from public enterprises - the sort of activities that have been described in the table, namely, electricity, gas, water, etc - which gave them more than another $90m. I want to say something about the inadequacy of this and also the difficulty of achieving any rational distribution of function in this field. 
There is a lot of talk these days, but not much real result or action, about decentralisation and urban renewal. But very little practical result flows from that vast amount of talk. One of the difficulties seems to be that these sorts of things cannot be achieved unless there is some deliberative action involving substantial sums of finance. Whether this is lo be initiated from the Commonwealth level, whether it is to be initiated by the Commonwealth making greater payments to the States who in turn will hand the money over to local authorities, or whether there is to be direct subvention from the Commonwealth to local authorities, seems to be the difficult task that faces us. 
The Australian Labor Party, at its most recent conference held in Launceston in July 1971, suggested that perhaps the nexus could be broken by having representatives of local authorities on the Australian Loan Council where attention could be given to works programmes that fall within the area of local government responsibility rather than within the responsibility of the States. At the moment the Loan Council is concerned only about State programmes and the amount of money that the Commonwealth believes it is possible to raise in the total economy after taking out amounts for defence loans, if it is necessary to have resort to any such finance. 
One of the rather grim things in this whole pattern - one of the Bills before us today deals with it - is called capital assistance, which gets down to this very murky realm of the burden of interest in the Australian economy in total. In some respects, insofar as debt is held internally, interest payments tend to be a bit of internal bookkeeping rather than anything else, although they can still make vast differences to the actual income of those who happen to be holders of government securities as against the various levels of activity which have to pay the interest. One rather appalling aspect is brought out pretty clearly in a document published some time this year by the Commonwealth Statistician and entitled 
Local and Semi-government Authorities: Debt 1969-70'. There is a great deal of difficulty in Australia in getting a tidy arrangement between local government authorities and semi-government authorities for the rather simple reason that sometimes a function performed in one State comes within the realm of local government, yet if performed in another State it comes within the realm of semigovernment. In Victoria electricity distribution is done by a body known as the State Electricity Commission, which is a semigovernment authority, but in some other States there may be aggregates of municipalities which operate the electricity grid themselves. Therefore, the statistics overlap to some extent. 
In this publication it is shown that using the classifications which are given, in 1961 the debt owed by local government authorities was S763m on which they paid an annual interest charge of $36m. In 1970 - or 10 years later - the aggregate amount of debt had increased to $l,619m. lt had more than doubled. The annual interest payment had risen to $89m. Semigovernment authorities, which are by far the larger because they include these large bodies like the electricity grids of some States and quite large metropolitan boards of works, in 1961 had an aggregate debt of S3, 110m and an annual interest burden of $140m By 1970 the aggregate debt had risen to S6,025m - had doubled - and the interest burden had risen to §31 lm. The total debt of local and semi-government authorities combined in 1961 was S3, 873m and the annual interest burden was SI 76m. In 1970 thi total debt had almost doubled to $7,644m and the interest rate had risen to $400m. This had more than doubled because there is now a higher interest rate structure and debt has been converted and so on. 
These undertakings are great users of capital. In 1961 local government required annually new money amounting to $99m and semi-government authorities, $248m. In 1970 local government was making an annual demand for $188m of new capital and semi-government authorities S458m, or a total of 8646m. These figures are important in the totality of the functioning of the economy. If anybody saw how easily the industrial activity of a State could be paralysed it was some 18 months ago in 
Victoria when the stoppage of electricity undertakings virtually brought that State to a standstill and threatened to spill over into New South Wales, because that State also is partly dependent on electricity fed from the Victorian system. With counterorders and cross-orders and so on one sees how totally integrated an economy really is. 
This is why something must be done about breaking the nexus between the capital that has to be provided, the interest burden that has to be borne, and the responsibilities that finally have to be carried out. In the long run all of the responsibilities are services to the citizens of the Commonwealth, but for too long we have resolved these questions must unsatisfactorily in Australia merely by turning them into the subject of an arid annual financial debate, where the advantage all along lies with the Commonwealth, which has the dominance of the purse and tends to give a higher priority to its works as against the works of the States. The works of local and semi-government authorities are forgotten altogether except for what is described as the gentleman's agreement. I have often pointed this out in this House, and the figures are evident enough. In the national income papers figures are shown for total Commonwealth works in certain spheres as against works that are carried out primarily by the States. If one takes only 2 headings - 'Capital provision for the Post Office' and 'Capital provision for the Department of Civil Aviation', which are both Commonwealth responsibilities - it can be seen that the expenditure this year for the Post Office will be S403m and, for the Department of Civil Aviation, Si 84m. However, in 2 highly important fields which fall within the responsibility of the States, namely education and health, the expenditures will be S275m and S99m respectively. The aggregate expenditure for the Post Office and for civil aviation is $587m. The aggregate expenditure for education and health is S364m. If this matter were decided as between equal partners, who on any rational basis would spend twice as much money on civil aviation as is spent on the provision of capital extensions for health? I suppose one can be gratified that we now have places like Tullamarine and that it is intended that such services as are provided there will be duplicated in some other places. But could one regard that as a high priority, particularly when, apart from businessmen and members of Parliament, most people would not use an aeroplane more than once or twice a year? Civil aviation seems to have a terribly high priority with regard to lavish capital expenditure and the way that it is financed in relation to the services that it provides contrasts greatly with the way in which hospitals and railways are financed at State levels. One never gets in a railway station the grandeur that one gets in a modern airport. 
We have the absurd position that airline operators seem to think that the only things they are supposed to provide are the aeroplanes and that somebody else should provide everything else. It would be very easy for a railway operator if all that he had to do was to bring along the trains, with somebody else providing the terminals and tracks. That is virtually the kind of thing that happens with regard to the relative financing of airline operators and railway operators, yet a great song and dance is made about the financial losses incurred by railways, while praise is given because the 2 major domestic airline operators each happen to make a profit. There is no sensible assessment of the overall transport needs of the Australian community. 
I think that they are of equal efficiency and, if you ask my opinion, the railways are of far more economic importance. 
It is another question, but it is a question which gets begged in this kind of hand to mouth method of allocating finance. I simply say that it is time that we had in Australia at the public level  -  I think ultimately we must also achieve it at the private level - something which might be called planning of the total resources. If anything indicates the present paralysis of the economy in Australia, it is the failure to co-ordinate the capital plans of expansion of the public and private sectors, and the Australian economy in total is suffering in consequence. 
To return to the issue of local government authorities, the document to which I have referred points out quite well that more and more responsibilities, particularly in the social welfare field, are being expected to be assumed by these bodies but that nobody gives any consideration to giving relief in regard to the payment of the sums of money involved. I hope that this matter will be taken seriously in the next few months - it certainly will be in the lifetime of the next government - otherwise we will have a sense of paralysis in Australia in relation to certain activities. I have often contrasted the luxury of financial resources that is available to the Commonwealth with the sort of marginal starvation that exists at the level of the States and the virtual non-existence of finance at the third level of government. For instance, State governments could claim that service is actually being denied in such important fields as adult education, the provision of libraries and so on for lack of sums as low as Sim. When one finds extravagant performances taking place at the Commonwealth level, it would not cost much if these things were done. 
I think that it simply highlights how inadequate existing arrangements are that in an economy whose aggregate transactions exceed $36,O00m, and where the amount that comes within the net of Commonwealth activity is close to $ 10,000m, services at local and State levels should be prevented from being provided because of the lack of sums as small as a few hundred thousand dollars at one level and $lm or so at the other. Members of my Party have discussed this matter for a good number of years. Some people suggest that the answer is to hand functions back from one level to another. Others suggest that what is required is the creation of new regions. Certainly, when one gets away from the Commonwealth, the States as such tend to be historical identities, while local authorities are merely creatures of State legislation. Their boundaries and powers are governed by Acts like local government acts. 
As the report to which I have referred points out, there are towns with populations of not more than 1,000 people that are separately incorporated, while quite large towns are smothered within the embraces of shires which have an earlier historical origin. This is a most untidy pattern. I think that there are something like 2,000 separate municipal bodies throughout Australia. In many respects the way that they are constructed and the kind of franchise under which they operate do not in essence lend themselves to their being the sorts of bodies that could perhaps be satisfactorily accountable for large sums of money from either the State or the Commonwealth. There may have to be regrouping of areas for particular functions, but until this sort of thing is done all talk about decentralisation, urban renewal and so on will be idle talk which will not provide any real relief or real solution to what is becoming a most critical situation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. It relates to the flotation of a company known as Weeks Natural Resources Ltd which, it is expected, will seek to raise $15m to $16m on the Australian market. Was Reserve Bank approval for the project secured without the presentation of a copy of the prospectus? Does the company envisage exploration activities outside Australia in such places as Colombia, Guatemala, South Korea, Thailand, Ireland and British Honduras? Does approval endorse the idea of Australian investors providing risk capital for use outside Australia? Finally, were representations on behalf of the proposed company made directly to Cabinet by any of its directors or associated interests? 
I support the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who is the shadow Minister for Social Services, on behalf of the Labor Party. It states: 
That all words after 'That' bc omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: while not opposing the Bill the House is of opinion that the only satisfactory way to provide social service benefits is through a comprehensive national system of social security where benefits are above the poverty level and tied to an index adjusted at least annually'. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  seems to have some doubt as to how the Australian Labor Party will finance the abolition of the means test, but he raised no doubt about how the Government will do it. All I would submit is that at least both sides are agreed at the moment that abolition will be achieved by 1975. 
Apart from the payments which the Commonwealth makes to the States the provision under the National Welfare Fund is the greatest single item in the Commonwealth Budget. This year the payment will exceed S2,077m. In many respects it is a hotchpotch arrangement. Certain things which have grown up have been accepted historically. Certain modifications have been made. But there is no doubt that whatever we do in terms of a national situation at any given moment, those who receive pensions receive cash payments from the revenue without having to perform any work for them. They draw such payments from the productive capacity of the economy and in many respects they do so because of a kind of social contract - that they have wrought in their years of strength to make the economy of the nation what it is and any humane society believes that these people should be provided for adequately when they retire. Grafted on to that sort of attitude is the idea that everybody has an entitlement once he reaches the age of 65 years, or 60 in the case , of ladies, to receive automatically a pension irrespective of means. 
Up to dale the means lest has been a fairly efFective barrier designed to reduce the total cost to the community of pension provisions. As the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  knows, it has operated in such a fashion that of every 10 people who qualify by age - ladies over 60 and men over 65 - only 6 receive the pension in whole or in part. The remaining 4 are excluded by the operation of the means test. When we aim to remove the means test we are, in essence, seeking to give an additional payment to people whom the means test, as administered by this Government and previous governments, previously excluded - people regarded as having an income higher than that of those who are entitled to a pension. 
In essence, the abolition of the means test means a redistribution of the total resources of the community in favour of persons over the age of 60 or 65 years. I think both parties have chosen to take a short cut, in terms of cost, by saying that a payment will be made to ladies at the age of 65 and not at the age of 60. As 1 understand the mathematics of h, that will cut out onethird of the cost because one-third of the people who are currently excluded from the pension are ladies in the age bracket of 60 to 65. The effect of this will be to reduce the cost, in rounded figures, from about $400m to S270m. These figures are near enough. The Minister knows, perhaps, the precise figures. I submit that the position is not clear on either side of the House. But to imply vice to one side when one is not clear oneself does not seem to be very honest arguing, with all respect to the comparatively new member from Murray. Today the Minister was delightfully vague, if one wants to use that term, as to how he proposes to finance the abolition of the means test, and I respect him for that. At least my Party is of the same view. There is a great deal of unravelling to be done and I have had to correct things over and over again. 
The honourable member for Murray still seems to attach to me a distortion of what I quoted by way of example. I refer to the concessional deductions for dependents and life assurance premiums. Surely nobody can argue that the life assurance deduction is other than highly selective. How many people in the community can claim the maximum allowance of $1,200 per annum for life assurance premiums. In my view people are lucky to be able to save that much in the first place. But they have no warrant to be rewarded from Government revenue if they do so. Yet that is what is happening. When this is pointed out, unscrupulous people suggest that one is proposing cutting out those deductions entirely. No-one on this side of the House has ever said that. We have tried to draw attention to the highly selective nature of this deduction. 
I note in the proposals that the Minister, for the first time, suggested that pensions should be taxable when the means test is abolished. Surely this is one of the matters which should be looked at carefully. Nobody - and least of all myself - would suggest that we can go suddenly from one system to a new one without causing serious dislocation. 
As I see it, there are at least 3 groups in the community whose interests have to be considered. There are those who are already in receipt of pensions. Both sides of the House have stated that they will abolish the means test and introduce a national superannuation scheme. If such a scheme were to be introduced it would not cover those who are already retired. It would have to provide for a certain time limit before one could become eligible for benefits. Surely nobody believes that if either side introduces a national superannuation scheme or national retirement scheme - whatever it is called - anybody who retires from then on would automatically be entitled, irrespective of his other entitlements and so on, to a second pension. It has to be phased in and phased out, as that term is used. We have an existing arrangement of private and government superannuation schemes and surely what should be acknowledged is that those schemes at the moment are highly favoured by the tax system. The taxpayers who are not in superannuation schemes subsidise those who are by reason of the fact that payments to superannuation schemes are tax deductible. The inquiry that was undertaken in Victoria showed that only about one-third of the Victorian population was covered, adequately or inadequately, by a superannuation scheme, public or private. There is not even a proper collection of the private schemes. I think I have seen the number of separate schemes given as something like 30,000 or 40,000 but there is no real indication of their nature. 
The only thing that has to be done before a taxation deduction for superannuation payments can be claimed at the moment is that the schemes have to be acknowledged by the Taxation Office. The reality is that two-thirds of the community, comprising mainly the poorest sections of the community, are excluded from this benefit and up to date have had to rely on the hazard of politics via the age pension scheme. What it is sought to do is unravel the existing situation. I would imagine that those who were fairly close to the point of retirement under a government or private scheme would have the right to contract out of the new scheme if it were introduced. I do not know. These are the sort of matters which the Committee of Inquiry has to adjudicate upon. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr 
Wentwortb) said that he has up his sleeve some great scheme which he has not revealed but which is vastly superior to anything that has been introduced anywhere else. This scheme seems just as mysterious as ours presumably is, but nobody is suggesting that. The Minister has used highly immodest words, if one may say so. I look forward with great interest to the unravelling in the future of this Clochemerle scheme - the great public benefit that we are to get and that no-one else has thought of. 
What I had been about to say was that no scheme that I know of that has been introduced has made people eligible for benefits under it unless a certain time limit has been imposed. This is where we come to the second group of people. We have the people already retired for whom the most significant feature, if they are age pensioners, is the basic amount of the pension and the certainty that that pension will retain its purchasing power. This is one of the points which the Opposition is trying to cover in its amendment. The second group comprises those who are about to retire - say in the next 4 or 5 years - and who are covered by a scheme. They may have some option if they prefer to continue in that scheme. Then there is the other section of the community, comprising quite a large number - something like twothirds of the population. How long do people in that section have to be contributors before they are eligible for benefits and what is to be the nature of their contribution? These are highly important questions which in my view require much closer scrutiny than has so far been given to them. 
One can only regret that the Prime Minister in a government which has been in office since 1949, when he was Treasurer something like 3 years ago said, in response to the suggestion from this side of the House that there should be a national superannuation scheme, that it was beyond the capacity of Australia to have it despite the fact that every other Western community has it. Now, several weeks before an election even he has become converted to the idea. Surely this is no way to approach matters of this kind. If poverty has existed in Australia then it has not become obvious just in the last few weeks. The greatest example of the inaction of this Government and its low sense of acknow ledgment of problems is that curious scheme under which it says to people: 'If your income falls below a certain level we will pay your health insurance contributions until your income rises above that level'. What can be more abominable as a charity and as a means test in reverse than that? Why not lift the income to the point where the person can pay his own health insurance contributions? The Government sets great store by the fact that it has done the other. When a man's income does fall below the stated level or when a man becomes unemployed it pays his contributions, not in advance but on a hand to hand, month to month basis. 
I have beard a lot of figures quoted today comparing the pension level now with what it was 20 years ago. Maybe it was not adequate when the Labor Party went out of office - I am not arguing that- but the Minister if he is fair about this at least would say that at that time we were coming out of a period of post war reconstruction into a different era and that there were certain other priorities at that time. I simply raise this point especially in relation to child endowment. When the Labor Party went out of office in 1949 child endowment payments represented 1.5 per cent of the then gross national product. In 1972, despite the fact that there is a greater proportion of children in the total population than there was in 1949, and despite the fact that we have extended the provision of endowment to student children over 16 years of age, the child endowment bill expressed as a proportion, of the gross national product has fallen from 1.5 per cent to 0.6 per cent. Or, to put it another way, if we were paying the same proportion of our so-called affluent resources in 1972 as we were paying in 1949, child endowment today would be  2i  times what it is. This is just one of the things that has happened because the Government has failed to grapple with the problem of social redistribution. It is collecting more and more in taxes in aggregate in terms of the gross national product than it was previously but does not give priority to families by way of child endowment. 
Child endowment in the Government's mind is a memorial to the past rather than  a  realistic recognition of the problems of the present. If anything indicates this, it is the real proportion of child endowment in terms of the gross national product. Whether that is the Government's sense of priorities, I do not know. There often can be argument on either side about what should have the greatest priority. I do not think anybody in Australia has any reason to be proud of the situation at the moment where we have real sections of poverty extending over 1 million or 1£ million people. There should not be any poverty in Australia of a substantial kind. There will always be the kind that occurs when a husband deserts his wife or when an accident happens and the breadwinner is killed. These are statistical incidents in a large scale society but at the same time nowhere has the reality of the situation been recognised in recent years. It is easy enough when we have this situation to score off each other and to submit that the other did not do this and did not do that. But I do not think that any government which has been in office for 23 years should be adopting the attitude: How better it is in 1972 than it was in 1949. What it should be saying in 1972 is: Is it good enough? In the Opposition's view it is not good enough. 
The Minister for Supply and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  when he introduced this Bill took little time, and I propose to follow suit. As he indicated, this legislation came into force in July 1969 for 2 purposes - to stop Canberra from being used as a tax haven from State duties and to ensure that people in Canberra paid much the same rate of duty as applied in the States. Since 1969 the rate in the States has been increased, and this measure proposes to make the rate in Canberra comparable with those which apply in the various States. The Opposition offers no objection to the measure. Therefore we wish the Bill a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What is the loss of sales tax revenue occasioned by treating computers as not being office equipment and allowing their exemption as aids to manufacture. 
The Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  who is the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  when introducing these Bills said very little about them.  His  second reading speeches on the Estate Duty Assessment Bill, the Gift Duty Bill and the Gift Duty Assessment Bill were quite brief. I draw the attention of the 
House to the fact that the last time that any amendments to this legislation were put forward was more than 2 years ago, on 21st April 1970. On that occasion, on behalf of my Party, I moved the following amendment to the Estate Duty Assessment Bill 1970: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof:  realising that some estate planning may already have been effected following the promise of this legislation on 24th September 1969, the passage of this limited Bill which offers some measure of relief from death duties in the rural sector is not opposed, but the House is of opinion that it is inadequate, as it fails to recognise - 
the extension of liability for and the burden of Federal and State death duties resulting from the pressure of inflation, 
the particularly critical situation of- 
the relatively small farm in the rural sector, and 
the small business unit in the industrial and commercial sectors, where in both cases a large part of the estate is in a non-liquid form, the dismemberment of which to meet the tax liability destroys the basis of efficient operation, and 
that difficulties are aggravated by the joint operations in this field of the Commonwealth and the States. 
The House considers that these matters should be fully examined with a view to early relief being afforded by further amendments of the Act'. 
I repeat that this amendment was moved on 21st April 1970. When a vote was taken on the amendment, it was defeated by 61 votes to 52, with all Government supporters opposing the amendment and, of course, with members of the Australian Labor Party supporting it. In nearly 21 years since that time, there has been a great deal of agitation about this matter, particularly in the rural areas, because the impact of estate duties or, as they are called at some State levels, probate duties, has been particularly harsh on rural properties. 
To some extent, the measure that is now before us will slightly remedy that situation because it will virtually double the statutory exemption level. The value of the estate that will be liable for duty will increase to a sum of $40,000 in respect of non-rural properties where the estate passes to a close relative and to $48,000 in the case of rural properties. When we debated this legislation on the last occasion I pointed out the national importance of farming properties in the United Kingdom. I suggest that the same comment applies to Australia, that farms of particular kinds are of tremendous significance to the Australian economy not only because they provide a means of livelihood for a relatively small number of people but also because of their export earnings. Not only do we feed ourselves adequately but we also have an abundance of things like wheat, canned and dried fruit and sugar left over to trade with other parts of the world. This was recognised a long time ago in the United Kingdom, and over there this kind of property receives virtually a double exemption. 
The legislation that was introduced here in .1970 and the amendment we are now contemplating at least draw some narrow distinction between the exemption for farm properties and for other properties. For farm properties there will be an exemption of $48,000 instead of $40,000- a margin of $8,000. At the moment a Senate committee is taking evidence about this very important field of taxation. It seems rather odd that this amendment should have been brought in now. Although it gives some relief to the estate of anybody who dies subsequent to the date of the introduction of the Budget, by no means does it grapple with the manifest problem that exists. I think that some notice should have been taken of the amendment that was moved by the Opposition more than 2 years ago that a comprehensive committee of inquiry into this field of taxation should have been set up. Honourable members should bear in mind that it is a field in which the States as well as the Commonwealth operate and that the basic exemptions have become grotesquely unreal because of inflation and because in some respects inflation has had a harsher impact on property values than on anything else. These problems could have been given serious consideration during the last 2 years. 
But, of course, this Government seems prompted to act only when the matter becomes one of electoral importance. I suppose, bearing in mind the realities of political parties, this is not altogether surprising, but it is nevertheless regrettable that the essential nature of deep seated problems is ignored because of short term political advantage. The Australian Labor Party is not offering any opposition to this legislation, lt is simply pointing out that the legislation does not go very far along the road to offer significant relief to small farms and also, in some respects, to small businesses. I am afraid that there is a great deal of confusion about the operation of this sort of tax. Sometimes some of the ills that are attributable to the operation of legislation in this field are put at the door of the Commonwealth when the greatest concern is often about the operation of the law in the State field. We cannot do much directly at this stage about altering the State law. We are certainly altering the exemption in the Federal field. 
Fresh statistics were tabled here just a short time ago. I have not yet been able to look at them. When one takes into account all the annual deaths in Australia one sees that only about 17,000 estates are liable for Federal duty. The effect of this Bill will be to cat that number in half. At least it can be seen that a relatively small part of the population is directly affected. The annual deaths in Australia number about 100,000, but the number of estates liable for Federal estate duty is about 17,000. A disproportionate number of those estates are in the field of primary production. I think that between one-quarter and onethird of all the estates liable for duty in Australia derive from primary production. Of course, we all know that nothing like one-quarter to one-third of the total Australian population derives its income directly from primary production. That simply highlights the reality that these estates are liable to this duty mainly because of the valuation of the principal asset in the estate, which is the farm property. 
There is another area of disturbance which this Bill does very little to remedy. Sometimes because people are not as well aware of the law as others are and are not able to put their endeavour into partnership or private company form but continue, either because they like it that way or out of ignorance, to operate as sole traders, what was originally one estate can bear 2 lots of duty in a relatively short span of time. This is one of the great bones of contention at the moment as far as rural' properties are concerned. A farm in the name of the husband may be left to the wife on the decease of the husband. Often the ages of the husband and wife are within a few years of each other, and it is likely that the wife will die within a relatively short time after the decease of the husband. Then the estate becomes liable for duty again. I think there is a case to be made for some abatement where that sort of circumstance arises. 
Let us look at the statistics contained in the annual reports of the Commissioner of Taxation. The last one 1 have is for 1969- 70. The report for 1970-71 was tabled today. The report I have shows that that year, out of 16,000-odd estates that were dutiable, about half had values of less than $40,000 and nearly two-thirds had values of less than $50,000. But the total amount of duty that was paid by estates up to the $50,000 mark was only $4,300,000. So not much revenue would be lost by forgoing the duty to that level. I think that a lot more justice could have been done if there had been a much higher relative exemption for rural properties as against other properties, because it seems that what is regarded as a return on capital in a farm would never be tolerated as a return on capital somewhere else. People in the manufacturing industry talk about having a return on invested capital after tax of from 10 per cent to 20 per cent, but there are not many farms in Australia that could achieve anything like that sort of return. If one were to take into account the capital value of some farms, and if the farm could be realised at the figure determined by those who put the value on the property, in many respects one would be far better off as far as an annual return is concerned by simply selling that farm and investing the money received for it in Government bonds. But, of course, in many cases a farm cannot be sold because it provides a living to a family - a comfortable enough living perhaps but not a living that is consonant with the capital value of the property. I think that in many respects the methods of valuation are quite unreal. I do not know quite what the reason is for this kind of circumstance. 
On another occasion when the House was considering legislation of the type before us I did a fair amount of work and obtained the minimum capital value of rural occupations of various kinds. I started with properties that were probably the smallest that could give a return. I was thinking, for example, of a poultry farm.  1  worked up to perhaps the dried fruit properties, through the sugar properties and so on to the pastoral properties, where in some instances, a property is not viable unless it has a capital establishment of well over $100,000. I think that even to establish a small sized poultry farm these days, taking into account a reasonable return comparable to wages paid to people employed in other industries, plus a return for the capital involved in the enterprise, one would still get into a minimum capital establishment of something like $35,000 to $40,000. Larger capital sums are involved when one is speaking of the more sophisticated types of properties. I am sure that the honourable members for Fisher  (Sir Charles Adermann),  and Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  have some concept of the values of properties in their own areas which give a small but not extravagent living, and often just a bare living, to those who work them. They know that if the owner of a property died the property would have a large capital value placed upon it and this would place a burden on the inheritor for quite a number of years. 
in many cases it forces aggregation of assets and not in the direction that one would like. The tendency is for areas to be consolidated into company farms, which is not necessarily a desirable thing. 
That is one side of this sort of proposition. I think the other consideration is that sometimes in order to remedy what are some obvious injustices in this field it is suggested that there should not be any probate or estate duty at all. I must assert straight away that I do not support that point of view. I think that when people leave large aggregations of assets often those assets are the result of inheritance in the first place. Sometimes they are the result of the skill of the person who accumulated the assets but often they are simply due to the fact that we have not had a proper system of taxation while they were accumulating. Quite a number of estates are worth $500,000 to Sim. I think that no-one should rule the community from the grave. When you are dead you are dead. The disposition of assets should not be under the dead hand for too long. But this is  a  different case from that of the liv ing who wish to inherit the viable property of the deceased and who find that that viability is afflicted by reason of the heavy impost of a estate duty. It seems to me that this problem could be separated from the general social purpose of taxing large estates. Australia has a much lower maximum rate of tax than applies in the United Kingdom and in other countries. As I indicated, at least the United Kingdom acknowledges the problem of the farm in relation to the total economic activity and gives that section of the community a double exemption as against that which applies to the rest of the community. 
The other measure that is before us deals with gift duty. To some extent gift duty has been introduced as a form of taxation. Because of the devices that were being adopted by some people while living to remove the ultimate burden of the tax that would fall upon the estate - what is described as gifts inter vivos, a gift from the living to the living rather than an inheritance from the dead to the living - it was found necessary to tighten the net by introducing gift duty. Gift duty is imposed both at the State and Federal levels. Often there is some confusion about what tax one is paying and what the burdens are. The measure before us proposes to exempt sums of up to $10,000 from payment of gift duty, if they are made over a certain period of time. Of course, again, a social problem is raised. We have to consider whether there are many people within the community capable of distributing substantial gifts of money among their close relatives and friends during their lifetime, and if so at what level these gifts should be taxed. I do not think we have sufficient information in Australia as yet to be able to adjudicate upon these fine points. 
There is a lot of talk, as we know, of introducing new types of taxes into the tax structure. A committee of inquiry is looking into this sort of thing. The committee is considering wealth taxes, some aspects of probate or estate duty, which is the tax applied at the time of death, as well as taxes on capital gains which, if taxed while they were accruing or while they were actually received could mitigate the effects of some of death taxes. These are all matters of social concern which should be studied closely by the community from time to time. 
I am told by my colleagues who are members of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations that there has been a great deal of confusion in the evidence that has been submitted to that Committee so far. However, the general feeling seems to be that it would be a lot better if there were only one operator in the estate and gift duty field. It is considered that there should not be separate Stale and Commonwealth taxes in this field but that there should be one tax only. Also I am told that most people think the system would be more efficiently administered if estate and gift duty were levied only at the Federal level but that whatever revenue was collected should be paid to the States. These are some of the interesting sort of observations that have arisen from evidence heard before the Committee. The view has been expressed that the Commonwealth should vacate the field entirely and that this tax be left as a source of revenue to the States. But, as I have said, even those who advocate that the States should receive the money seem to believe that for efficiency reasons estate duty would be much better administered as a Commonwealth tax and the proceeds paid to the States, which themselves would determine the rates. I simply cite that view to indicate the kind of confusion that presumably exists in relation to operations in this field. I think it is a form of tax about which a great deal of emotion can be whipped up in advance. After all, most of the people living in Australia have not had much experience with the tax. It has been experienced only by those who are close relatives of a deceased person who has given them an inheritance. As I have indicated, this applies with more force in the rural field than in most other fields. It is around that, I think, that we have had a great deal of concern expressed in recent times. Some of the concern no doubt is well intentioned. I think a lot of it, unfortunately, is quite confused. 
I have received quite a number of submissions on this subject myself. I have listened to a number of discussions about it and I have read some of the submissions that have been made to the Senate Committee. It certainly is an abstract field. I think it is a pity that there is not a lot more public and open discussion about its operations. I think at the moment that the most advantage is gained by those who can hire the best legal advice to determine how they should properly arrange the ownership of their assets while they are living. Insofar as some gain from that situation and others are penalised because they do not know about the operations of this tax, I think there is a case for at least some kind of better legal assistance which should be given to people in advance so that they can try to establish what their rights are. Nobody should pay more tax than necessary. If by being clever people avoid paying the taxes that the revenue believes it should collect, then the revenue is entitled to take all the steps it can to close the loopholes. There is never any excuse for ignorance of the law. It is pleaded as a legal maxim that ignorance of the law is no defence. But when a law is complicated one can hardly expect that the unpractised layman should be wise in the practices and operations of the law. So I believe that occasionally the doctrine needs to be mitigated by common sense. If there were a little more public discussion about this field, I think the situation would improve. 
As I have indicated, we offer no objection to this legislation. I point out that on this side of the House we observe some of the injustices of the operation of this law. Some  2i  years ago we moved an amendment suggesting that a committee of this House be appointed rather like the one that has since been set up by the Senate. Had that committee been set up  2i  years ago no doubt it would have presented an informative report 18 months or so ago which would have enabled the framing of adequate legislation rather than this piece of legislation before us at the moment. This legislation, like the amendment to the law as it existed previously when the Government got the inspiration in September 1969 with an election in November 1969, seems to have been brought about by the Government getting the same inspiration and the impulse to act on the law just a month or 2 before the next election. I suppose it is a highly cynical exercise of legislative power to keep this sort of proposal as a kind of reserve up your sleeve. In other words, the Government's attitude seems to be not to worry about it while things are going smoothly but to introduce it with the hope of wooing a few votes when the community has not been properly satisfied with the previous situation. I leave it at that. 
by leave - I think the reason for this grant is understandable. But there are certain irregularities in doing it in this way. Because the New South Wales State 
Budget is being introduced at 8 o'clock tonight the Commonwealth has to do this kind of thing to validate it. I should have thought that earlier notice could have been given of this grant so that honourable members could have considered the merits of it. After all, in his statement the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  said that certain circumstances have arisen in New South Wales by reason of a number of special factors. 
That may be so. But I think that one State in particular which has special problems at the moment is Western Australia, by reason of the vast amount of unemployment which exists there. Some unscrupulous people suggest this is due to the fact that it has a State Labor Government. This kind of reasoning is quite wide of the facts. The circumstances in Western Australia are of particular seriousness. When I was there some fortnight ago I advocated that a special grant should be made to that State of SI 5m. Whether it was made by way of loan or a straight out grant is beside the point. But if some essential developmental works were to be undertaken in Western Australia they would make a lot of difference to the economic situation there. It seems to me that what is being done here this evening is a little bit political in context. 
I suggest, again, that this is not the way to handle these milters. The House considered Bills last week dealing with special grants to States, both by way of additional reimbursement and loan funds that are payable without interest. I should have thought that this would have been the appropriate point for this special grant to have been made. I do not want to say anything more about it, but I think the circumstances are unusual. Again, it is indicative of the precipitous way in which this Government introduces measures which have particular bearing upon States that are Liberal dominated, but ignores the realities of States which have Labor governments. 
by leave - 1 think that one should be aware of the importance of this legislation and the fact that it has been mooted for a considerable time. One must also feel a bit apprehensive that such legislation should be passed without adequate time for consideration. I am not too sure, from what I have heard, whether it is the intention to let this legislation lie on the table of the House for some time. If that is done, in the event of the dissolution of the Parliament it will lapse. But it was suggested that there are some urgent cases that require this sort of legislation. Therefore I ask that we be given an adjournment until the week when the Parliament resumes, because my Party wants to consider this legislation which is quite extensive. If the Government then indicates that the Bill is not to be passed this session we would still like an opportunity to debate some of the principles that are involved. That is the sort of assurance I would like to have from the Minister for Supply and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland).  I had some informal discussion with him before the Bill was introduced. 
I think that my colleague, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  who has taken a great and very close interest in this matter would also like to say a word or 2. I would like an assurance that even if it is not the intention to pass the Bill into law at this stage - my Party has not yet considered the matter - we should nevertheless have some opportunity to debate at least the principles of the legislation in the several weeks of this session that still remain. 
The statement that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  introduced the other evening was headed 'Overseas Investment in Australia'. I suggest with all respect that it is not a statement about long term overseas investment in Australia at all. It involves a number of short term remedies to a problem that can best be described as a problem of excessive liquidity. 
Well, more than that. As I hope to illustrate, it is a lot more in that direction than in prescribing or spelling out future intent with respect to overseas investment. The Prime Minister began by referring to 3 matters which he said had been revealed in the Treasury document which was .published in May 1972, some 4 or 5 months ago. He said that the 3 principal problems were the high level of capital inflow and the potential problem . that creates for managing the domestic economy; the suggestions of exchange rate speculation to which such inflows give rise and the possible consequences of that; and the sheer growth of foreign ownership and control of important elements of our economy. I want to put those 3 aspects into some sort of perspective. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  made a lot of capital out of reading the Australian Labor Party's proposals as to what it intends to do in this matter. One thing that strikes me as very interesting is the changed attitude evident in the document just presented by the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  entitled 'Australia's Natural Resources' about what is called infrastructure. I contrast it with the Treasury document of May 1972 in relation to this question of infrastructure, which states that letting the mining company pay for the development is one way of garnering the economic rent from the exploitation of mineral deposits by foreign investors and is, from the national point of view, generally desirable. At least a little more realistic approach is shown in the more recent document as to what should be done in the future about infrastructure. I do not have time to talk about that today. 1 want to amplify this statement made by the Prime Minister: 
In brief, in the past 2 years, capital inflow has resulted chiefly in a  build-up  of international reserves rather than an addition to resources actually being used in the economy. The greater part of this recently increased inflow has been in respect of company borrowings. 
I submit with all respect that that statement begs a number of essential questions. The fact that the reserves have built up may be due to a number of influences. I want to have a look at these. 1 am afraid that on most of them the information is not available. The terrible thing in Australia at the moment is the deficiency of adequate information about the extent of overseas ownership of industry and of mineral activity. Has this money come in speculating against an upward move in the exchange rates? The honourable member for Wentworth suggested that our currency was undervalued, but he would not suggest altering the rate at the moment. I think: that is a fair rendition of what he said. But we do not seem to know the extent to which speculative money is flowing into Australia. The build-up could be due to the fact that firms in Australia, whether foreign or locally controlled, borrowed abroad rather than borrowed at home. 
I must confess to being astonished by the figures that were given in the same speech about the exchange control approvals of gross borrowings abroad. The figure for 1969-70 was $568m; for 1970-71, $l,222m; and for 1971.-72, $l,681m. I think we should ask what the Reserve Bank has been doing. Why has it been giving such large approvals when it drew attention as far back as 1971 to the threat to our ability to control our economy internally by reason of the large amount of capital inflow? If it has given these approvals, why has it given them? After all, the Reserve Bank and what it does are the responsibility of the Government. 
At the moment we have a surfeit of capital in Australia because the economy has been running down. I suggest that that is the real crux of the situation at the moment. I have spoken to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  who is at the table and he has agreed to my incorporating in Hansard of a table from the White Paper on National Income and Expenditure 1971-72.  (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="080131197209280_86_0.jpg"></graphic>

The table helps to illustrate a point that I want to make in the short time remaining to me. It shows over a S-year period the total capital funds accruing in Australia and the use to which those funds have been put. In the 5-year period from 1967-68 to 1971-72, the capital funds used in Australia aggregated $4 1,442m. Of that sum $7,000m has gone into dwellings. I make a point here that very little of foreign investment goes into dwellings. Nearly $6,000m of that $41, 442m has gone into what is described as other building and construction. It seems in some respects that in recent years foreign money has been going there. I have said 

<graphic href="080131197209280_86_0.jpg"></graphic>

before that if there are to be capital gains made out of property development in Martin Place or Collins Street, they certainly should not go to foreigners. Yet in some respects that is what has been allowed to be done. Of that vast sum of $4 1,442m, $13,000m has gone into what is described as all other fixed capital investment. In the long run this is the sort of thing that makes the Australian economy tick. 
In the same period in which we have spent $4 1,442m the amount of capital inflow from overseas has been $6,300m. To start with I simply make the point that out of every 7 capital dollars that have 

<graphic href="080131197209280_86_0.jpg"></graphic>

been employed in Australia in recent years, 6 have been found from within Australia and the other one has come from overseas. At the same time as the amount of $6,300m found its way from overseas into Australian capital sources during the 5-year period to which I have referred, overseas reserves rose by $2,000m which would seem to imply that we really needed only two-thirds of the $1 in $7 that we borrowed from overseas anyway. I think the great danger in Australia is that although it seems we hardly need that money, we have allowed $1 in $7 to dictate the pace and direction of the development of the Australian economy. I submit that this is the critical problem that faces us in regard to overseas investment. 
The very document that was tabled by the Minister for National Development in Parliament today reiterates figures that all of us know. For instance, the document states that 44 per cent of the total mineral industry in Australia is owned overseas and something like 60 per cent of the mineral activity in Australia is controlled by companies from overseas. Where does that put the credibility of this sort of document? We have yet another document which has been prepared in the last couple of months of this Government's existence which tries to explain what the Government intends to do in the next 3 years. However, the Government had no resistance whatever during the last 3 years to prevent it doing what it now says it will do. We have had document after document of this kind. They are belated acknowledgements that problems exist - death bed repentances of a Government that feels that it no longer commands the support of 50 per cent of the Australian people and which is trying desperately in this last couple of months to say that it now recognises it should protect our natural resources. 
The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  sneered about the Labor Party's description of the national interest. The Government says in its own document that takeovers in the future will be guided by the national interest. Why is it any harder for us than it is for honourable members opposite to define the national interest? The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  in an earlier debate today, suggested that commercial interests should decide whether a public utility should use a product made by another monopoly, as though that is a nice decision that can be made in closed quarters by those 2 groups. What we on this side of the House say is that in future, whatever the difficulties about unravelling what has happened in the past, Australia's natural resources should be developed for Australia's national interest. This does not mean extreme nationalism - that we will use these resources only for ourselves. We have some obligations to other parts of the world as well. But we are not just going to become a kind of quarry for the rest of the world which, after all, is what has happened in the last several years. As much overseas capital has come into Australia in the last 5 years as came in during the previous 15 years. 
Australia, like any other country, basically lifts itself up by its own bootstraps. The preponderant part of capital development comes from within ourselves. We should tell the other dollar what is best for Australia. We should not let the other dollar dictate where the other $6 shall go. This is what national development is about in the long run. When we talk, as honourable members opposite are talking, of doubling energy supplies every 12 years and spending aggregates of thousands of millions of dollars, decisions no longer can be left entirely to what honourable gentlemen opposite describe as private enterprise. The only enterprise it has shown is in getting the best conditions for itself and fleecing the Australian public in the process. One-third of all the dividends paid annually in Australia now go overseas. There is no Australian ownership at all in basic strategic sections of the economy. That is what has happened under 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. Now we are presented with documents a week or two before the elections saying that the Government can now do what it should have done before. 
Before I move that the debate be now adjourned I must still confess some surprise at the introduction of this matter at this stage. The Whip has pointed out to me that the blue sheet indicates that at approximately 8 p.m. the Minister for Trade and Industry would move customs tariff proposals but I assumed, when the debate on overseas investment finished at 6.14 p.m., that the  Deputy  Prime Minister was the next  speaker  listed to take part in that debate. Had I known that this matter was to be brought on now, I would have had my colleague, the shadow Minister for Trade, at the table. I think that this proposal is a significant matter and I hope that opportunity will be given when the House resumes in a week or so for this to be properly debated. I was interested to hear the word 'sociological' introduced in respect of- 
 Mr Speaker,  this Bill is the annual measure dealing with the assignments made by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. As stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Supply and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland),  the main purpose of the Bill is to authorise the payment in 1972-73 of special grants of $1Om to Queensland, $21m to South Australia and $7.6m to Tasmania. They are the 3 States which are claiming in terms of that rather wide section of the Constitution - section 96. I might refer briefly to the measure that was just introduced. When one hears the Commonwealth trying to take credit because it proposes to make an aggregate grant of $600,000 to the States for meals on wheels and contrasts it with the aggregate States' revenue of $ 1,000m, one begins to see the kind of fine hair splitting to which CommonwealthState relationships are being subjected. 
If one also refers to what we have described quite frequently as the poor relation in the system, local governments, one can see the kind of ineptitude with which we are approaching in Australia the allocating of finance and functions. Surely nothing could be more grotesque than to see, a few weeks before an election, the introduction of the sort of measure that has just been brought into the House. In terms of the aggregate wealth of the Commonwealth of approximately $36,000m, why should the Government be trying to take credit to itself because it proposes to increase the subsidy on a meal from 10c to 15c? One always reads with interest the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Of course, the great State of 
Queensland has become one of the claimant States. 
It is doing very well despite the Government it has. I suppose that nothing can be more piffling, in the sense of the difficulties confronting the Commonwealth, than for honourable members opposite to try to get some justification out of the fact that unemployment, in terms of the total work force, is higher in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania than in the other States and to suggest that the reason for this is that those States have Labor governments and that there are non-Labor governments in the other States. If that is an indication and vindication of national policy, I suggest that honourable members opposite have a lot of thinking to do. 
One of the interesting sections of the Grants Commission's report this year is the section dealing with taxes on gambling, which begins on page 78. If anything shows the extremes to which the States have to resort and the kind of hair splitting that is being done by a body such as the Commonwealth Grants Commission, it is that contained in this section of the report in which the Commission tries to assess the relative abilities or disabilities of the States in regard to levying taxes on gambling. I want to quote one or two of the paragraphs in the report. Paragraph 4.64, referring to what Tasmania submitted, states: 
It acknowledged that ticket sales relative to population are very much lower in Tasmania than in other States. . . . 
Why should it be regarded as a virtue, or a vice, if you like, of relative raisings of revenue that one State sells more or less raffle tickets, which are illegal unless they are State sponsored, than another State? Paragraph 4.64 continues:   . . but rejected any argument that this indicates some unused taxable capacity which the Tasmanian Government could exploit in other ways. 
When one contrasts that kind of attitude with the virtue of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who has just finished making a speech in which he said that the Commonwealth is giving, in aggregate, another $200,000 to the States for meals on wheels, one sees the kind of disparate state we have reached in Australia regarding revenue sharing. Paragraph 4.64 of the Commission's report continues: 
It argued that 'such an approach would be inconsistent with the Commission's methods of measuring relative severity of taxation in other fields'. 
Paragraph 4.65 states: 
The Commonwealth Treasury in its submission at the Canberra Hearings in April 1972 repeated its previous arguments to the effect that an unfavourable adjustment should be made for belowstandard effort by Tasmania in raising lottery revenue. 
Gambling is a moral issue rather than a financial one, and to me it seems appalling that the Commonwealth Treasury should he trying to suggest that Tasmania should be prodding its people to engage in more gambling activity rather than less. There does not seem to be much consistency in this matter. I refer to further observations contained in paragraph 4.69 on page 80 of the Commission's report. Dealing with South Australia the Commission stated:  lt may be that South Australia's relatively low turnover in both racing and lotteries is mainly due to differences in religious and cultural background of the population in the various States. 
Presumably the Commission has a high sense of virtue about the people of South Australia but a rather low one about the people of Tasmania. I suggest that honourable members ought to study these observations. Further on, when dealing with poker machines which, I think, are the most vicious kind of instrument ever perpetrated in a democratic society but which, nevertheless, are the backbone of marginal revenue in the State of New South Wales, the Commission said - and this seems to me to be a rather curious kind of suggestion: 
Such an extension could reach the point where the logical  fundation  of the Commission's procedure, whereby it compares the revenue-raising ; capacity of the different States by reference to tax bases actually used by one or more of them rather than by means of  a  general index of their relative taxable capacity, could be put in question. 
As I have said, on occasions I have had some admiration for the Grants Commission, but I think that in this report it has reached the point of hair splitting. It has considered moral issues rather than financial issues. I think that one of the most vicious aspects in the community is its reliance for the raising of revenue upon the predatory instincts of its members and that it is regarded as a virtue that various States have a general level of the amount of revenue they raise by indirect taxes, particularly taxes on gambling. 
I draw the attention of the House to appendix E, table 4, which appears at page 150 of the Grants Commission's report. It shows the sources from which all States raise revenue. Total State taxation and net lottery revenue for the year ended June 1971 was $93 6m. Slightly over onequarter - $258m - was taxation derived from the motor car. Probate and succession duties netted $150m. Stamp duties of various kinds - charges on cheques and on various financial transactions - netted $23 6m. Taxes on land netted $90m. Taxation on racing netted almost $60m. Entertainment tax netted almost nothing. Liquor licence fees, as distinct from the excise duties, netted $44m. Poker machines, which are confined to the one great State, the father State of the Commonwealth, netted $33,803,000. Statutory corporation payments netted $32m. Licences of various kinds netted $23m. This made up the total of State taxation, as distinct from Commonwealth grants, of $936m. 
Tonight we had the trivia of the Government trying to take virtue to itself by adding $200,000 for the whole of Australia for the next 12 months commencing 1st January 1973 to increase, in affluent 1973, subsidies on delivered meals from 10c to 15c. Does not this indicate the kind of serious situation that we have reached in Australia in allocating finance and function? There is no doubt, when one examines the totality of taxation raising in Australia, that about $9,000m is collected by the Commonwealth. Another $ 1,000m is collected by whatever devices State Governments can find. From motor cars and the weaknesses of human beings almost $l,000m is collected at the State level and almost $400m is raised at the local government level by resort to taxes on property. There is hardly a State in Australia now - the details can be found in the Grants Commission's report - including that great State, New South Wales, which has about 40 per cent of the total Australian population and which is forced to resort for part of its revenue to taxation on poker machines, that raises 50 per cent of its revenue. Tasmania is dependent upon grants from the Commonwealth for about threequarters of its revenue. 
In many respects the Government has survived by judiciously handing out grants. I suppose the cheapest advantage that was ever gained by a Liberal Government - one which saved its skin in 1963 - was the grant to schools for science blocks, extended more recently to grants for libraries. Surely in 1972 a science block and a library are as essential to the functioning of a secondary school as is a lavatory. At least the Government has not yet resorted to the low device of handing out a lavatory grant, but it tries to take credit to itself by saying; 'We will assist you with a science block', or 'we will assist you with a library grant', or 'we will assist meals on wheels to the extent of another $200,000'. 
I think the Grants Commission is falling for the same kind of cheeseparing. Does the Minister believe that relative ability of States should be assessed by whether they resort to a greater or lesser extent for their resources upon gambling? The Minister is a high minded character who talks about abortion when it suits him and who talks about something else when lt suits him. But he would allow one of the lowest forms of depravity - gambling, the taking of something for nothing - and would applaud it through bodies such as the Grants Commission. I suggest that this is the level to which the allocation of resources in Australia has fallen. I am one who believes that ultimately the fairest way of raising taxes is according to the capacity of individuals to pay, not according to whether they are weak or strong in resisting individual temptations. 
We hear a lot of talk about society. 1 suppose the word 'permissive' is the one that intrudes the most. The Government, through the Minister, when it suits him, will criticise what he calls permissiveness, but through a body such as the Grants Commission will suggest that Tasmania should force upon itself one way of revenue raising rather than another - a taxation on gambling. One of the things that appals me is the inability from time to time to find sites for schools in Victoria and the ability suddenly to find a convenient site for a TAB office. Usually it is near a hotel. When the legislation was introduced originally there was a suggestion that a TAB office should not be in proximity to a hotel. I suggest that those who introduced that legislation should look now where most of the TAB offices are in Victoria. This was done by a Liberal Government. 
By a Liberal State Government. When it suits the honourable member he will suggest that the level of unemployment is due to the political party in government but when it comes to gambling or anti-social devices he does not draw any distinction between whether they are Liberal or Labor governments. I suggest that in Australia we are reaching the stage at which the Government is using thumb screws to try to make the States with limited revenue conform to the pattern that it wants to force upon them from the top. Universities are a good example of this policy. For every $1 the Commonwealth provides, the States are expected to provide $1.85. It is much harder for the States to find marginal sums than it is for the Commonwealth. If ever there was a grotesque example of this type of approach, it is this measure which, again, is a pre-election measure that has been introduced into this Parliament tonight to obtain virtue from a sum of $200,000. Why can the Government not pay higher pensions to people so that they can provide their meals for themselves, rather than increase the subsidy on meals from 10c to 15c and then expect local authorities to pay the balance? The Government is returning to a soup kitchen type of era. 
I suppose that one of the appalling things is that at long last in 1972 the Government has recognised that pockets of poverty exist in Australia. There is nothing more curious than that in the last 3 months of this Parliament, which has existed for 3 years, the Government suddenly has found that it wants to do the sorts of things that it had no inclination whatever to do in the last 3 years. If ever there was an example of trivia, it is the measure that was introduced this evening. I submit that one needs to look at the totality of the allocation of Australia's resources. The Commonwealth has the dominance financially; nobody argues about that. I, for one, would never go back upon the proposition that, in particular, income tax, both on individuals and on companies, is best raised at one single level. But the very serious problem is how we allocate between the Commonwealth, the States and the local authorities functional sorts of performances. 
The other evening, I raised in this Parliament the matter of what is spent on capital provision in Australia. I compared 2 Commonwealth levels of capital expenditure, namely, the Post Office and civil aviation, with 2 State levels of capital expenditure, namely, education and health. This year, the total capital expenditure on the Post Office and civil aviation - that includes those magnificent places, such as Tullamarine, which most people never see - will be 50 per cent higher than the capital expenditure on education and health or school and hospitals. If any honourable member in this House were making an allocation of capital on the basis of function rather than the priority of finance - and the Commonwealth has priority of finance - would he arrive at the end result that he would spend li times as much capital on the Post Office and civil aviation as he would on education and health? I suggest that this is the central dilemma that faces us in a federal system which we all claim we want to survive. I think it shows the unreality in Australia in 1972 in relation to what are our problems as a growing nation that we have before us tonight this sort of measure under which the Government will dole out finance in rather lowly quantities in terms of the country's gross national product of $36,000m. The Government is trying to take credit unto itself on the basis that, by what it calls fine tuning to the extent of providing $20m or $10m or, in the case of Tasmania, $7,600,000, it somehow is doing justice to the community. I hope that much more serious consideration will be given to this matter in the future. 
I pay credit to my Leader, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Whitlam),  for at least acknowledging that there is a third level of Government in Australia which is the starved and neglected level but, nevertheless, the level that probably in the long run serves- 
I would keep the Grants Commission; but I would refine its techniques, I would strengthen its staff and I would hope that the Commission would get away from this thumbscrew approach. 
Yes, in the broad. I think section 96 is one of the fortunate sections of the Constitution, whereas section 92 is one of the unfortunate sections. 
Yes, I would keep the broad principles; but I think that in some respects the Commission is becoming a body which is a little over-systematic in trying to work out relative abilities as between one State and another. It sheers off, coming down to -what is called taxable capacity as a criterion; but I am not sure what it arrives at as an alternative. I think that one of the rather unfortunate aspects of this report is the kind of logic it uses when trying to assess what is the resort of Tasmania and South Australia to gambling as a source of revenue for the essential finances of those States. There is something wrong with the basis of Government if we can raise from people by their folly sums that we cannot obtain from them out of their wisdom. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government introduce into the sales tax law a provision similar to section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In  respect of Table No. 2 published in the document Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics presented on the occasion of the Budget 1972-73, could he supply a tablulation indicating the estimated loss to revenue attributable to the various types of concessional deductions as detailed in the Table. 
I do not wish to speak at length on this statement, because it is a formal matter really. It is simply a wind-up of the accounts for the year ended June 1972, basically concerning amounts not foreseen in the Budget but for which the general provision of the Treasurer's Advance was made. Most of it is history now. In view of the fact that this Parliament is in its last days I do not propose to say anything further although I believe the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  wishes to say something on this matter. 
 I do not want to say a great deal about this Bill because it is a comparatively flimsy document itself, and it seems to me that principally what it does is that where the word 'relevant' appears in section 116 it is now to be replaced by the word 'designated' in order to replace what were formerly a variety of shippers' arrangements by a single shippers' body to be called the Australian Shippers Council. I am a bit surprised in a way that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  when he introduced this Bill did not provide a lot more background information about it than he did, because I think that in the absence of such filling-out of reasoning some of us are at a bit of a loss as to why what is being done now is in fact being done at all. It seems that it is another one of those last thoughts on the part of the Government that it appeases somebody somewhere by doing this sort of thing, and therefore the legislation is brought in hastily in the hope that not much will be said about it at a stage in the Parliament when everybody is wanting to get away. I wish that if the Minister and the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who are having a conversation at the table, would move a little bit further away. [ hoped that the Minister would listen to one or two of the observations I was proposing to make. He no doubt is more familiar than most people are with the constituency of the Australian Shippers Council. Nowhere are any details provided in the second reading speech as to who the bodies are that make up this Council. It would have helped considerably if that information had been available. I must rely for my information on 2 quite interesting pieces of correspondence that appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' of last week. In that newspaper on Wednesday, 18th October, appeared a letter and, oddly enough, on the same day an article commenting on the letter. Presumably the gentleman who wrote the letter or the editor extended the courtesy of supplying in advance a copy to the gentleman who wrote the article. 
The Minister has just handed me a list containing the bodies that make up the Australian Shippers Council. With all respect, I should think that that list ought to have been included in his second reading speech. I doubt whether a body drawn as diversely as that one is in any sense can be claimed to be a representative body. In essence what has been done here is that whereas previously particular sections of industry chose to make their own arrangements as shippers it is now suggested that arrangements would be better made if the larger body representing several of the groups in combination made them. I am not quite sure whether that is necessarily a sustainable proposition. After all, if one took such bodies as the Australian Apple and Pear Board, the Australian Egg Board, the Australian Wine Board, the Australian Meat Board, the Iron and Steel Workers Association, the Wool Textile Manufacturers of Australia, one would find it hard to determine what it is they all have in common other than, of course, that they are all shippers. But they demand different kinds of ship space; they demand different seasonal arrangements; their trade often is in different parts of the world. Yet somehow we are told that things will be more efficient with this new body, the Australian Shippers Council. 
I hoped that the Minister might explain why this new arrangement is necessarily more efficient than the other. How big the body is, I do not know. Is each body on it separately and equally represented or do several groups of them combine to supply a member? What is the administrative arrangement of the body? Does it act through a secretary. Is it sectional in its organisation? All these are matters upon which one requires further information. It seems to me that there are 2 diverse points of view. One is put by  Mr James  Ramsden, taking what he possibly regards as a more objective approach, and the other is put by  Mr A.  F. J. Smith of the Australia to Europe Shippers Association, who of course is speaking specifically as a shipper.  Mr Ramsden  makes this important point: 
The  point is that there is no effective control of  shipping  conferences in this country. 
This Bill does not alter the shipping conference. All it does is face the. shipping conference with a shippers body which is supposed to be more effective than the more heterogeneous arrangement that applied before. But the conference is still there, more as a unit. 
In many respects we have suffered in the past because we. as sellers of primary produce, seem to have been less well organised than other countries have been as buyers. In some respects in shipping this has been the reverse. The buyers, from a shipping space point of view, have lacked effective organisation. On the other hand, those who own the ships realised long ago that cartelisation or organisation is to be preferred to open competition. It seems at the moment that in the shipping world there is a little more surplus shipping available than was previously the case. The Australian Wool Board, by making its own shipping arrangements, was able to achieve reductions in freight by its own effort. Whether by being in this it is adding its strength to the weaker units, I do not know.  Mr Ramsden  says: 
There  is  no effective control of shipping conferences  in  this country, and the benefits of unified operations do not flow to exporters - or at least they do not flow to exporters through the 
AESA-- 
That was the older shipping organisation - or any other 'recognised' shipper body conglomerate. 
Now there is to be only one designated body rather than the ones formerly recognised. He continues: 
Nor are they likely to flow through the activities of the even bigger conglomerate, the Australian Shippers' Council-- 
That is the new body -  unless the conferences are effectively controlled and even then, only if the Council adopts sounder business methods than any of its individual predecessors. 
Presumably  Mr Ramsden  holds no very high opinion of those earlier shipper organisations from a business point of view. 
On the other hand,  Mr Smith  writes this letter primarily in rebuttal of an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of Friday, 6th October, entitled The Shipping Tangle'. He accuses the newspaper of following 'the long established pattern of your comments on overseas shipping arrangements by presenting an unduly biased viewpoint on which you based destructive criticism of the capabilities of organised bodies of exporters and of Government policy'. Presumably  Mr Smith  rises to the. defence of Government policy and the efficacy of shipping arrangements against what he regards as the ratherjaundiced and unfair presentation of the case by the Australian Financial Review'. Whether the earlier article was written by  Mr Ramsden,  I do not know. In his letter  Mr Smith  comes finally to this proposition: 
Let us have the privilege of seeing your plan for providing an alternative regular service for thousands of small and not so small parcels of refrigerated and dry cargo from 25 ports in Australiato hundreds of ports overseas and to countlessinland destinations on a basis which provides frequent opportunities of shipment to cover the whole requirements ofthe trade. 
With all respect to  Mr Smith,  I think he is painting a pretty wide picture when he talks about 25 ports in Australia, as though those ports apparently are all of equal significance. I suppose the port of Portland is nowhere near as significant as the port of Port Melbourne. 
Maybe it should be, and perhaps this sort of legislation can help to make the smaller places more effective. If that is the case, I would be glad to hear an explanation from the Government. The honourable member will be retiring but the Minister for Trade and Industry will be here in one capacity or another for a good number of years yet. He is in charge of this Bill. With all respect to him, I do not think he has provided us with the sort of information that is required to answer these cross-arguments. I do not know basically whether  Mr Smith  is right, whether  Mr Ramsden  is right or whether each of them has a certain element of truth in his argument. This is often the case. But in a country like Australia where we spend over S 1,000m on freight, when we talk of our exports and imports - this Bill is related primarily to export shipping - it seems to the Opposition that we have not paid enough attention to trying to break the power of the conference. 
We have all known the experience of large bodies like the Peninsula and Oriental Steam Navigation Company wanting to use its ships in the Australian trade and yet refusing to divulge its bookkeeping transactions so that fair pricing can be arrived at. I submit that if a company wants to use us we should be entitled to ask for information as to profitability and so on. Even an apparently invincible body as the P &amp; O company has been assailed in the last month or two by prospects of a takeover. As recently as 7th October 1972 'The Economist' had the following heading on its Business Investment page: 
Will the next bidder for P &amp; O please step right up now? 
It does not seem to bode very well for the future if a significant member of the conference is not even likely to be the same kind of entity within a matter of a few months. There has been talk of Bovis and some other group being about to swallow P &amp; O. The assault has been avoided for the time being, but it would seem to me that the Minister has been more concerned to rationalise the shippers' side of things on this occasion - I am not too sure that he has made out the case that this is the best form of rationalisation - and has paid very little attention to the great aggregate power that is possessed by the conference itself. After all, the Bill deals with sections of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. Certainly they are limited sections. As I have tried to point out today, this Bill is a very restrictive one, but nevertheless it amends the Restrictive Trade Practices Act of 1971 in relation to overseas cargo shipping. The Opposition thinks that the power of the conference is at least a significant matter for legislation. 
The other general objection has been mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who has indicated that we feel that in some respects, since Government money goes to assist the Australian Shippers' Council, at least its constituency ought to have been designated to some extent in the Bill and that there ought to have been provisions for annual reporting on behalf of the Australian Shippers' Council so that from time to time we can have a look at its construction. We also feel that the Council or the Government, through the Act, should have provided itself with some more teeth for restricting the power of what is generally described as the conference. We are sorry that those omissions were not remedied when the Bill was drawn. It is too late at this stage to propose amendments. In many respects I think this is just a part of the window dressing in which the Government has been engaged. What it should have been doing over the past two or three years it has now decided to do in the past two or three weeks of this Parliament. I am afraid that this legislation has been conceived in that way. But what we will face in the next Parliament will be the proper amendments that ought to have been made to make this measure really effective. 
 I am intervening in this debate due to the unfortunate absence of my colleague the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J, F. Cairns)  who could not be present this afternoon. I am faced with a formidable wad of material covering 3 Bills and 3 second reading speeches. The Customs Tariff Bill (No. 4), makes some technical adjustments and changes to implement the Government's decision to introduce metric terms into the customs tariff. Other changes arise from drafting amendments to the Brussels Nomenclature instigated by the Customs Co-Operation Council in Belgium. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  was good enough to circulate an annotated document identifying the various items by the prefixes 'M', meaning metric, and 'BNC' meaning Brussels Nomenclature. 
There are one or two smaller items I should like to make reference to. One of the proposals deals with the product known as 'chain'. This proposal concerns a decentralised chain firm operating in the town of Benalla. The firm is Reynold Australia Pty Ltd. It is an English company by origin. I have been told that it employs between 120 and 130 people. It is a significant firm in the town of Benalla and I suppose it is a good example of decentralised industry. It is indicative of the difficulty of industry surviving in this sort of context unless some kind of assistance is given to it. Tariff protection is one such form of assistance. My colleague the honourable member for Lalor visited the factory at Benalla some weeks ago. He spent a whole day there investigating the proposal. He indicated to me that this firm faced some difficulties because of the relative smallness of its operation and, to some extent, because of the area in which it is located. 
Here again we get down to this rather difficult factor in economics that there are certain costs that you can calculate and there are some costs of a more social kind which it is rather more difficult to bring into any economic context. I think that to some extent these are the sorts of issues we face in what is sometimes broadly described as 'decentralisation'. Somehow, we have to induce people and industries to move from city areas to other areas but it is unlikely that any business concern will shift unless it can be assured that when it is established in a new location it will be able to make a profit. I do not think that business usually goes anywhere on any philanthropic assumptions. It goes on the hard-headed basis that a profit will be made and a profit, of course, simply means that in the finish income exceeds costs and there is a margin left over for survival. One way of making a profit where it might not otherwise exist is to reduce some of the costs. This can be done either by putting an additional cost on overseas competitors in the form of tariff assistance or by paying a subsidy directly to the firm concerned, such as freight abatement, telephone concessions, special rate concessions or even what one sometimes calls 'tax holidays'. These steps may from time to time have to be taken. It would seem that in one or two of the industries which at the moment are in some difficulty and rely on tariff protection for their survival, these kinds of problems are involved. 
We have heard from time to time in this House a lot of discussion about certain aspects of the textile industry. The Sixth Schedule of the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 4), which is one of the measures that is before us, incorporates changes arising out of the Government's decision following the examination of the Tariff Board's reports on knitted shirts and outergarments and woven shirts. This section of the textile industry was in some real difficulty recently because of large imports of certain products from overseas areas such as Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea. I think that as a result of agitation by Australian manufacturers certain quotas were placed upon the import into this country of goods from those areas. The argument used, of course, is that in many cases lower wage standards apply in some of these countries than is the case in Australia. 
Representations were made to my Party by some manufacturers who pointed out that often the product they make is of a far higher quality than the imported product and they must have special designing and drafting staff in their factories. We were told that someone else can simply go to one of our local stores, buy one of these products, take it to Hong Kong and get it made as a facsimile by a firm there which does not have to pay designers and so on. Whether this practice exists to any great extent, I suppose, is one of the areas which makes the Tariff Board's task sometimes hard to discharge. I for one would welcome - and I have welcomed this in the past - an increase from time to time in the Board's staff, both in number and in skill. Some of the examinations of industry that are made by the Board on a systematic basis involve a considerable amount of skilled interviewing and investigation. In some respects I think that the staff has been deficient, not in quality but in quantity, in recent years. This has sometimes made the Board's task very difficult to perform in a really complete way. 
We all know that there was some outcry recently about one of the textile investigations. It was said that some of the investigations were undertaken by students from a particular university who were supposed to be good in theory but not altogether appreciative of the practical difficulties of the trade. Whether that is fair comment, I do not know. But the Board in its final report did make the rather easy suggestion that the industry ought to rationalise itself, that there were too many firms in the industry that were too small, and that they should go out of existence and perhaps the others might acquire the plant. It is easy enough to say that kind of thing but it is not nearly as easy to find someone kind enough if one is down and out to pay a fair market price. Maybe we could create some kind of equalisation fund in the industry so those who did have to go out for this kind of reason might be com pensated and perhaps could set themselves up in some other direction altogether. 
The other aspect in which the textile industry takes credit to itself is that it is one of the highest employers in Australia of female labour. I think about 5 per cent to  6  per cent of all the ladies who are employed in Australia find employment in one or other aspect of the clothing and allied trades. The textile people also claim that theirs is one of the industries that has attempted to decentralise. There are a considerable number of textile plants of relatively small size in quite a number of country towns throughout Australia. These industries which are established in country areas, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria, provide employment for ladies in these areas and also are of considerable assistance to the economy of what are otherwise relatively small towns. This has social advantages thai a;e very hard to assess on the strict economic criteria on which the Tariff Board operates. I must say that I find on the whole the people whom I have met on the Tariff Board to be very competent people who are really concerned about the future of industry in Australia. I think that the impression that is sometimes given that they are hellbent on destroying Australian industry is a pretty unfair description of the general attitude of members of the Tariff Board. At times they have to make decisions that perhaps go very hard for particular industries. Nevertheless, when one takes into consideration the criteria of efficiency, economy and so on perhaps sometimes their criticisms are justified. 
I do not intend to say any more about these matters. The session is drawing to a rather haggard conclusion. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who sits on the other side of the House and who as usual has put a great deal of time and effort into studying this subject, wishes to speak when I resume my seat. I wish I had time sometimes to concentrate on these rather interesting fields. But I must say that in the last 2 or 3 months I hardly have found time to look at any single one of these reports, and maybe that is evident in what I have said here this afternoon. The technical matters of converting our present system of weights and measures to the metric system and adopting the new nomenclature are what makes the document look so bulky. I sometimes am dubious about what the advantages of the metric system are in total. The changeover to the metric system will certainly pose much more difficult problems than resulted from the change to decimal currency. For instance, there is no exact conversion from lb and oz to kilograms and grams; there is no precise relation between the gallon and the litre; and there is no exact comparison between the yard and the meter. It is rather interesting to listen to broadcasts of football matches these days and to find that where formerly a player kicked a ball 60 yards now the kick is described as being of 60 meters. This makes the performance sound much the same but apparently it is a few feet more in the process. When I listened to the broadcast of the Caulfield Cup the other day the commentator at one stage said that the horses had got to the 2,000 meter mark. 
Well, horses have horse sense. I think that sometimes we would do better if we had a little bit of it, too. But I hope that some protection is afforded to the public during the change over to the new system. Someone wrote to me the other day and said that something that was formerly a li lb packet now appeared as SOO grams and the weight was not really li lb anyway. The person also pointed out that the item was of the same price as it was in the old days even though it was now of lesser quantity. I hope that some consumer protection arrangement will be made to obviate folk being taken down by that sort of transaction. But I do not think this aspect of the changeover has much to do with the Minister at the table. 
This Bill is another one of those death-bed repentances of the Government in regard to a matter that it could and should have taken action on a long time ago. But it belatedly decided to do it yes terday and it hopes to have the measure passed through this House and the other place within about 48 hours. This Bill is described as a Bill for an Act to control foreign takeovers of certain Australian companies and in many respects it is rather like the land laws of some States when all the best freehold has been taken and they decide to turn what is left into a kind of leasehold. In many respects I think this is what has happened in this instance. Action has been taken rather belatedly and large aspects of Australian industry that could have been saved, had such legislation been introduced earlier, have now irreparably passed into the hands of foreign owners. 
There are certain peculiar aspects of this Bill. One could of course go into the whole field of foreign investment but I want to confine myself to the terms of the broad title of the Bill which refers to foreign takeovers of certain Austraiian companies. One of the distressing things in Australia is the lack of information about the extent of foreign ownership and control of Australian industry. There is a certain emotional kind of response at the moment with the realisation that things have gone too far. Almost every morning when you wake up you pick up your newspaper and find that what was thought to be a solidly established Australian firm is threatened with being swallowed up by some firm from overseas. 
This legislation is best described as an interim measure'. In fact it has some rather peculiar aspects about it. This legislation will apply only to 31st December 1973 or, according to clause 2(b), if an earlier date is fixed by proclamation, that earlier date. It has a rather peculiar aspect about it insofar as unlike many other pieces of legislation this Bill when it becomes an Act can actually be repealed by ministerial action, not by legislative action. One thing which the Opposition intends to do is to move in the Committee stage of the Bill that clause 2(2.)(b) be deleted. I asked earlier in the day about this rather peculiar clause and at my Party meeting today this curious procedure was drawn to my attention by several members of the Caucus. Normally a Bill cannot be passed unless it secures a majority in the 2 houses of Parliament and it remains as the law of the land until it is repealed by another Act of Parliament. But on this occasion we have this curious paragraph in clause  2  that will allow this Act to be repealed any time after it is passed, simply by proclamation. I sought some information about this. I am informed that the wording in clause  2 (2.)  (b) is not exactly the same as contained in any other Act that has ever been written as far as Australia is concerned. I merely make that comment. 
 Exactly. We propose to suggest that the sovereignty of Parliament at least ought to be acknowledged and that paragraph (b) of sub-clause  (2.)  should be deleted. There is also another rather curious clause in the Bill. I only want to make this comment on it because I want to say something more general about the Bill. Clause  3  states: 
Without prejudice to its effect apart from this section, this Act also has, by force of this section, the effect it would have if the following word and paragraph were added at the end of section 5: 
Clause 3 goes on to say that these words ought to be added at the end of section  5:  ; or (c) is the holding company of a body corporate of a kind referred to in either of the last 2 preceding paragraphs'. 
When I was reading this part of the Bill last night I thought: 'Why have this written this way?  1  would appreciate, perhaps at some later stage in the Committee debate, an explanation as to why, instead of being inserted as paragraph (c) at the end of clause 5, it is included in the Bill in this peculiar way as a special clause 3, stating that is should be added at the end of clause 5. It is just beyond my comprehension as a mere layman in the business. 
When the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  introduced this Bill the other evening - and he chose ito do it rather than have the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  or the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  introduce it - he said 'that the purpose of the Bill is to control foreign take overs considered to be against the national interest. Again, a peculiar omission from the Bill is any attempt to define 'national interest' although the Prime Minister spelt out in the course of his second reading speech certain criteria as to what he seems to think the national interest is. He seemed to include in it about 4 kinds of national interest, some of which seem to be major, some of which seem to be comparatively minor and many of which seem to be merely afterthoughts to pay deference to such things as regional development, defence strategy and environmental protection. They are all loaded in as aspects of what might be regarded as the national interest. But the, central basis from which it seems that the national interest is first to be contemplated is indicated by this question which the Prime Minister asked: 'Is the company an economically strategic industry leader'? I suppose one can think of certain firms in that category in Australia. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is virtually the sole maker of steel and it comes to mind as one that could he regarded as an economically strategic industrial leader and presumably in those circumstances should an attempt be made by a foreigner to take over that great establishment action would be taken. 
The second criterion is: 'Is the company so large that the takeover would significantly affect the relative balances of Australian ownership and control of the industry concerned'? Again one could imagine certain areas in Australia where, because of the relatively small population of this country there are only a few firms covering the whole of a particular industry. I think the motor car industry is one such example. I still think that in Australia we have far too many motor car firms making far too many models of cars in far too many different places. But this is something that we have allowed to grow in this country by not properly policing, guidelining and screening foreign investment in the past. 
The third matter is: Does the takeover lead either directly or indirectly to net economic benefits in relation to such matters as production, prices, quality, range or products and services, and efficiency and technological change? These are the sort of things, presumably, that are regarded as being in the national interest. I could well understand the difficulty of trying to be categorical in a Bill as to what the national interest is. We have this problem in some other fields where certain things are regarded as being against the public interest. Of course, the public interest can be a pretty diverse sort of phenomenon or situation, to say the least. Nevertheless, because something is difficult to define is no reason why we should not occasionally try to define it. At least there seems to have been spelt out in this Bill a number of criteria of major and less major significance. 
There has been a series of statements and legislative enactments in both this place and the other place in recent times and in the finish, I suppose, all of them have been aimed at the acknowledgment that even in a society that claims in a way - particularly through the mouths of supporters of this Government - to be a system of private enterprise and of free competition, in fact this ideal sort of state does not very often completely exist. In fact businesses as a whole when they get large enough do their best to remove anything that can be regarded as effective competition. The fact that we have restrictive practices legislation, monopoly controls and takeover or merger legislation is an indication that in terms of the total economy we can no longer allow industry or industrialists to please themselves entirely about the scope of their activities. If a company or organisation in the corporate form is large enough, no longer can it in any realistic sense be regarded as only the preserve of its own shareholders. We get this sort of curious mythology sometimes, suggesting that there are more shareholders of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd than there are employees of that company which, of course, conveniently ducks the very significant matter that there are very few shareholders of BHP who are entirely dependent upon BHP for their economic survival, but most of the people who work for BHP have no other source of economic survival than their employment in the enterprise. One can use statistics if one wants to for all sorts of reasons to prove what are rather dubious cases. But when we get legislation in relation to takeovers, which has been introduced not by a Labor government, not by a socialist government but by a government that claims in its coalition form to be the defender of free private enterprise, there is an acknowledgment that the buying or owning of an already existing firm by somebody else is not a matter that is only the preserve of the shareholders. This situation is particu larly accentuated when  a  local firm  b  threatened with being taken over by  a  foreign firm. 
One can raise quite  a  number of arguments pro and con about this sort of thing. I would commend to those honourable members who are interested a rather heavy volume produced by the Government of Canada called 'Foreign Direct Investment in Canada.' This publication is known more simply as the Gray Report. It is produced in the name of one of the Ministers of the Canadian Government and contains a very great deal of useful information about the functioning of the Canadian economy, and particularly about the amount of that economy that is owned by interests outside Canada. Of course, one of great deficiencies in Australia is the existence anywhere of compact information to give the extent of foreign ownership and control of entities in Australia by people outside Australia. The Labor Party has suggested for a long time that there are great gaps in Australia's statistical information, gaps that would not be very difficult to fill. My Party has suggested that one of the first things that ought to be done is an attempt to map, identify and categorise the extent of foreign ownership that already exists. 
The kind of information we get indirectly from bodies such as the American Department of Commerce and the body that used to be called the Board of Trade but which I think is now called the Department of Trade and Industry in Great Britain, seems to suggest that British investment in Australia, together with American and Canadian investment in Australia, could be as high as $15,00Om. But we do not have any up-to-date figures about this. Even the tabulation produced recently by the  Deputy  Prime Minister's Department had no later figures and its figures were confined to manufacturing as distinct from commercial, property and other fields. Those figures were no more recent than the year ended June 1967. This is not good enough in view of the importance and the extent of this kind of operation. What we have before us at the moment, of course, is a piecemeal sort of attempt to look at one aspect of the problem. The legislation before us expresses alarm as to what has happened but is not greatly concerned in any sense to reverse it The legislation is certainly aimed at stopping the sore from getting worse. It is a kind of finger stall which can be used for stopping future takeovers from outside Australia of entities already successfully established in Australia. 
When one company proposes to take another over, whether it be by way of an internal merger or by the swallowing up of an Australian company by someone outside, a number of questions ought to be asked. Surely one ought to ask: Is it better? Let us take the example of the old familiar case of Ansett Transport Industries and Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd. Did anyone try to prove that TNT's proposed swallowing of Ansett was necessarily better for the transport system in Australia than TNT and Ansett operating separately? Noone tried to prove that. The takeover was simply regarded as a matter for  2  sets of shareholders. In fact, I sometimes wonder whether it is the shareholders or just the boards of management speaking in the name of the shareholders. At least what is proposed in this legislation is that before any foreign takeover can take place certain exploratory processes have to ensue. There has to be a month of preliminary skirmishing in which the Government or a body that will later be set up - an independent tribunal or something of the kind - examines in some detail and in a preliminary kind of fashion whether what is proposed is in the national interest. If it decides quickly that it is not, what is proposed is off. But, if it thinks that the proposal is worth being subjected to further scrutiny, there is a further waiting period of some  3  months before it can be consummated or not. 
The Prime Minister suggested that this examination should occur where the asset construction of a company exceeded lim. By that, I presume, he means where the excess of assets over liabilities exceeds $lm, although this again is not spelled out. Like many other things, the proposals are delightfully vague and, perhaps, deliberately vague. But at least that is the kind of magnitude that the Prime Minister has in mind. In fact, really, there is no minimum or maximum standard at which such an examination should apply. The Canadians suggest that where the net assets of a company exceed $5m it should be subject to scrutiny. Be that as it may, that was the suggestion made by the Prime Minister in his speech, although what authority a speech has when it comes to an Act I do not know. At least the speech is the only place where the national interest is thought to be paramount. No attempt has been made to define it in the Act itself. 
There are  2  other interesting aspects of the legislation about which I should like to say something. In certain cases, apparently, it is presumed that there is no need to resort to legislation and that the mere decree of the Government is sufficient to say that there will be no takeovers in certain fields. I must confess to having some sympathy with that view. We already debar foreign companies from owning banks in Australia. We have the historical survival of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd, but at least that bank has been made to fit within the mechanisms of the banking legislation. We debar foreigners from the operation of our internal airways and also from the operation of broadcasting and television. I would hope that we would even exclude foreigners from the operation of any of the internal media of Australia. We can still be threatened with Press takeovers, presumably, and I for one would go on record as saying that no overseas owner should have any control of communications media in Australia. 
I suggest that the same sort of thing should apply in relation to finance companies. I read rather casually in a recent issue of the business journal 'Rydge's' that many of the finance companies in Australia were ripe for takeover by foreigners. I would certainly debar the takeover by an overseas interest of any existing finance company in Australia not already foreign owned. Foreigners should be permanently barred from this field. The same applies in the field of insurance. We already have enough foreign insurance operators in Australia; but, again, if any foreigner in the future threatens to buy an Australian insurance entity he should be debarred. I say these things categorically because I believe that any country should be able to run its own financial mechanisms. When we have as sophisticated an economy as we are supposed to have, it should need no assistance from outside. 
The other interesting aspect of this Bill is that, for the first time to my knowledge - I might be subject to correction on this -we recognise in a legislative enactment that the Commonwealth does have legislative power in relation to finance and trading corporations. This seems to be one of the healthy lights thrown upon constitutional possibilities in Australia as a result of the Concrete Pipes case. I can remember that many years ago my Party suggested that what were then less euphemistically described as hire purchase companies - they are now defined as finance companies - should be treated as members of the banking group and a law should be passed to bring them within the same net of social controls as the banking system. We were always told that such a move was beyond the powers of the Commonwealth under the Constitution. At least the Concrete Pipes case, possibly for different reasons, suggested that there would be no difficulty whatever in regulating these kinds of institutions if one wanted to. I hope that in the future we will want to. In many respects, this legislation has been written around the assumption that the Commonwealth Parliament can legislate on the operations of trading and finance companies. 
It was a little gratifying today to find in a report presented in another place the suggestion that it would be good if Australia had one uniform companies law. I, too, hope that we will move in that direction. The report even rather radically suggested that there should be national control of stock exchanges in Australia. Again, I must concur with that wise finding. But all of these findings are indictments of the inactivity of this Government, particularly in the last 3 years. I have said on several occasions that, listening to the debates in this Parliament in the last 3 months, one would not have thought that honourable members on the other side supported a government that was defending its performances and record of the last 3 years. Rather, they almost sounded like an opposition proposing great new things that they proposed to do in the next 3 years. This seems to me to be a curious inversion of the processes of responsible government. 
The Government cannot do everything, but surely it should do something. I would think that the indict ment, as I have called it, should be on the basis of how little has been done in the face of problems that called for solution. I think that the Government should be told that 1972 is well into the 1970s. The 1970s began 2 years ago, but the Government talks about entering the 1970s. No longer in this decade can a government run economies on a hunch. We must have some system, plan and scale of priorities. At least these have been provided - belatedly again, it seems - in some of the enactments that have been proposed in the last few days. 
My colleague the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  today asked a question about another great field in which we were promised legislation a long time ago, namely, the field of insurance other than life insurance. I do not know whether everybody realises that the annual premiums payable in the field of insurance other than life insurance are nearly as great as the Australian defence bill - something in excess of $1,1 00m. This area is a haphazard jungle of inadequate legislation with differing kinds of systems in different States. Belatedly, the Government now wants to write a code that will be effective; but what does it do? Instead of drawing up the legislation in May and letting it lie on the table to be considered early in August, the Government drew up the code in September or October and dilly-dallied between one set of insurance interests and another. We do not even know this evening, with one more day of this Parliament to run, whether we will consider it tomorrow. All I say about this is that legislation as important and far reaching as that and as this Bill we are now considering, ought not to be considered casually in the dying hours of a Parliament. Least of all should such legislation be brought in with the apparently avowed purpose of trying to rouse together some straggling voters whom apparently the Government has apparently lost but whom it thinks might be redeemed by this means. I suggest that that is a traversty upon the legislative process. When that has occurred, I think it is time to change the Government. 
I move: 
In sub-clause  (2.)  omit paragraph (b). 
I move this amendment for the reasons I gave in my speech during the second reading stage and which were supported a few minutes ago by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr 
Enderby). Because paragraph (b) provides for a most unusual procedure I went to the trouble of trying to find out from the experts at the table whether this was a usual clause, and I was told that no other such clause exists anywhere. Our point is that if Acts of Parliament have to be passed in a certain fashion Acts of Parliament should also have to be repealed in the same way. Clause 2 allows this legislation to cease in its operation merely by proclamation. This seems to us to be contrary to the normal practices. Therefore I have moved that paragraph (b) be deleted. It seems to me to be unnecessary to support the measure. The operation of the legislation will expire anyway on 31st December 1973. The unusual procedure outlined in paragraph (b) seems to be a bad practice. We oppose it. 
1 must say that for one moment my sense of saving time was beginning to conflict with my sense of the propriety of things when the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said he thought that this clause ought to go out. 
He said that if it were deleted it would cause some printing difficulties. I have had handed to me some amendments which are to be moved by the Government. 
I am afraid that I had, too, until it was pointed out to me. I do not think there is any force in the argument about printing so I would prefer to proceed with the amendment. I point out to the Treasurer that it will be necessary to delete the word 'or' from the previous clause, but that is a drafting amendment. 
I do not oppose this clause. However in my speech on the second reading, as in the speech of my colleague, the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  reference was made to this somewhat rather curious clause. Can the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  give some explanation of why this clause should be included in the Bill? Speaking as a layman, I would suggest that it should be not a clause 3 but a paragraph (c) to clause 5. 
I endeavoured to read this amendment. It seemed to me that it covered some particular kind of case. I hope it is not meant to cover any specific case. I accept that assurance. I can understand, in the sense that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has put it, that where there are 2 things existing already there could be certain components of non-Australian ownership. I suppose that, in aggregate, it is no worse if something is added or subtracted. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Postponed clause 2. 
I have had some discussion with my colleague about clause 2 and I am afraid that my sense of propriety must overweigh the sense of convenience. What has happened - realistically enough, I suppose - is that the Government has assumed that its amendments would be passed and the Bill has been printed on that assumption. But the Opposition believes that clause 2 (b) should be deleted. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in essence has said that he supports the idea in principle. The only exemption I would make is to let it go and have an assurance that it will be deleted in the Senate. 
That would be so. Surely it is not such a huge physical task for it to be reprinted. I am essentially a parliamentary man in these things and I think that these matters should be done correctly. If the sub-clause is to be deleted, it should be deleted now. 
I address a question to the Minister for Social Services concerning the administration of the unemployment benefit. By way of preamble I advise the Minister that I have received submissions from people living in the Warburton area of Victoria - a semi-rural area. They are forest workers. Their unemployment benefit has been terminated because they have not taken reasonable steps to obtain employment. The reasonable step not taken seems to have been a refusal to take work in the metropolitan area. I ask the Minister: What are the criteria of reasonableness adopted by his Department in determining the eligibility to continue to receive the unemployment benefit of people living in one area and offered work in another area? 
by leave - I wish to make a short statement on the same matter. In the outer areas of Melbourne where the metropolis merges or submerges pretty easily into the countryside, there is the suggestion that people cannot find employment. I am not confining this remark only to those people whose names I gave to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  but also to those who are given to understand that they could find work if they were to shift their place of residence into another area. I hope that that suggestion is not being made in any sense. It is always hard even to make social and moral judgments in relation to how people want to live, where they want to live, and whether their circumstances are different if they are single or married. People are glibly talking about decentralisation, job opportunities and so on, but the fact that a person may be able to get a job at Ringwood, let us say, but cannot get a job at Warburton seems to highlight the very real difficulty. One of these areas is rural and the other one really is metropolitan now. Whether a person can obtain a job depends on his talents and his capacities. If a person was a timber worker in one area he does not want to be a retail shop assistant in another. All I hope is that at least sympathetic interpretation is given to the word reasonable'. 
by leave - When dealing with the Tariff Bills yesterday I referred to the difficulties associated with metric conversion. I compared the situation, in a sense, with the conversion from pounds, shillings and pence to decimal currency. In that instance at least the units of conversion were relatively simple, but in converting pounds to kilogrammes, yards to metres, or gallons to litres there is no exact conversion. I hope that one matter which will receive more attention than it has received is consumer protection in respect of the packaging of liquids and solids. I have in mind what are said to be equivalent packages but which in a sense no longer can be such. A lady mentioned to me recently that she had paid a certain price for a pre-metric weight packet of goods. A fortnight later she made her next purchase of the goods and this time the weight of the packet was expressed metrically. When she did the conversion work she was able to do she found that she was really paying 2c more for the same quantity of goods. How the public is to be protected against that kind of thing is a very serious matter. 
I suppose that we accept the inevitability of the change and realise how foolish we would be if we were to remain the only country in the world using the old system. I must confess that 35 degrees to 40 degrees Celsius does not sound very hot to me although it is in the range of 95 degrees to 104 degrees Fahrenheit. Many of us, in the face of the new measures, for a long time will make calculations to convert to the old systems. Yesterday we rather faceiously referred to the Caulfield Cup being described in terms of thousands of metres, and kicks in a football final covering a certain number of metres instead of yards. What people who go to hotels and ask for a pint of beer will do, I do not know. But if there is no exact weight conversion or quantity conversion there is no exact monetary conversion either. The usual practice is to regard the nearest half cent as lc. I hope that these matters will be taken into account by people who have the interests of the consuming public at heart. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many taxpayers are there who have reduced the taxable sale value of goods taxable at the highest rate of sales tax, such as motor cars, radio and television or similar appliances, cosmetics or jewellery by the device of separating components of the total charge borne by the retailer and having some components of that charge invoiced by one entity and other components of the charge invoiced by a separate entity. 
What is the annual loss to revenue from the use of this procedure. 
What steps does the Government propose to take to protect the revenue and ensure that the taxable sale value shall not be reduced in this way by some taxpayers so that all taxpayers will bear tax uniformly. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second  time. 
This Bill will amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act to exempt contraceptives from sales tax. This amendment will give formal effect to the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 8th December last year that the Government had decided that the sales tax on contraceptives would be removed as from that date, the exemption will accordingly have retrospective effect to 8th December 1972. The Bill will also provide for the exemption of certain goods used in converting business and industrial equipment to the metric system. This exemption is being introduced following recommendations by the Metric Conversion Board for limited taxation concessions for the benefit of persons who are faced with the costs of converting items of plant and equipment to the metric system. In broad terms, it will exempt from sales tax parts and accessories used in the conversion of existing items of business and industrial equipment to the metric system. 
In recognition of the progress some industries have already made towards changing over to the new system, the sales tax exemption will apply in respect of purchases of parts and accessories on or after 1st July 1971. After the Bill has come into operation, persons who have already paid sales tax on metric conversion parts and accessories purchased on or after 1st July 1971 may apply for refunds of the tax. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bill in detail is being circulated for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
An interdepartmental committee has been set up comprising representatives of the Treasury, and the Departments of Primary Industry, Northern Development, Overseas Trade and the Prime Minister and Cabinet to consider a scheme for assistance for certain primary industries. The committee has made a report and has indicated a scheme of assistance for those most directly affected by the revaluation of the Australian dollar in December. Assistance has been given to the canned fruit and fresh fruit industries, the terms of which have been announced in detail by my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement the Government's decision to introduce legislation to repeal section 66 of the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959-1968 as soon as possible after the resumption of Parliament. Section 66 of the Act provides that the amount of a housing loan by the Commonwealth Savings Bank or the Commonwealth Trading Bank to an individual on credit foncier terms under Part VI of the Act shall not exceed 90 per cent of the Bank's valuation of the property on which the loan is secured, or the prescribed amount, currently $9,000, whichever is the lesser. In practice all such credit foncier loans to individuals - that is, loans where the principal and interest are repayable in equal periodic amounts - by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation are made by the Commonwealth Savings Bank. 
Repeal of section 66 will remove the present limitation on the Bank's ability to determine flexibility and in the light of particular circumstances the maximum amount of a credit foncier housing loan which can be made against the value of a property. The Commonwealth Savings Bank will then be on the same footing in regard to housing loans as the other savings banks subject to the Banking Act, which are not subject to any legislative constraints about the maximum amount of individual loans. The Bill provides for the repeal to come into force on the date of the royal assent. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Chipp)  adjourned. 
I suggest, in the first place, that the honourable gentleman ought to read the most recent issue of the 'Treasury Information Bulletin' wherein I deliberately put details of the projection of the Budget until 30th June. I repeat that the previous Government, on 17th August, announced a projected deficit of $63 0m. It had changes of mind and circumstances between 17th August and 2nd December, concerned more about political fortunes than about the destiny of Australia, which increased that deficit from $630m to near enough to $800m. This Government, when it took office, was confronted not with full employment but a large amount of unemployment in both country areas and the metropolitan areas, more disastrous relatively in country areas than in the cities because the job opportunities were not so great. State by State we made money available to the States, insofar as it was sensible, to employ people in socially useful work. To 30th June that will add another $50m or so. In addition, of course, there have been some wage adjustments that would have occurred whichever Party was in office. These also have increased the amount of the deficit. In addition, the Government believes that social service payments are grossly inadequate. As the first step the Government has announced - the legislation passed through this House yesterday - a first increase in the pension rate to be retrospective to 2nd December. When added to the 30th June figure, that will increase the deficit by another $50m or $60m. All that adds up to $960m, the figure that is stated in the 'Treasury Information Bulletin'. 
I mention as a matter of history that I can remember coming into this Parliament when the Budget for the first time reached $ 1,000m. The Budget this year will be for$10,000m and the deficit will be near enough to what was provided by the Budget for 1951. I think one has to be getting used to thinking in these terms. As a proportion of the gross national product the deficit this year will be less than it was in 1967. If the honourable member is to be bamboozled by big numbers he must be well out of his depth. I share with all Treasurers what might be called the odium of being told that in one direction I am spending too much and then being asked questions which imply that I am giving too little. The Government is keeping a sensible balance between both. 
It seems to be my day, at last. Taxation is not only a means of raising revenue but also a social instrument. After 23 years of non-Labor government, I would not believe that everything that ought to be taxed is being taxed exactly as it should. I refer particularly to what is supposed to be the crown of the taxation system, that is,, progressive income tax. The progressive income tax schedule has remained virtually unaltered since 1954-55. It has been wrecked by inflation which continued under the administration of the previous government at an annual average of  2i  per cent. Honourable members can work out what impact such a rate of inflation has had between 1954-55 and 1973. The progressive income tax schedule has remained virtually unchanged and concessions in respect of dependants have not kept up to date with the fall in the value of money. That is the case with respect to one form of tax only. 
I think the previous Government acknowledged deficiencies in the system and set up what is known as the Asprey Committee. My Government has not disturbed that Committee. Its deliberations are continuing. We have already announced one or two changes in sales and excise taxes. We have indicated certain gates in the system that are being abused by clever accountants and shrewder lawyers and we propose to close those gates. As would any new government, we will at the time of the next Budget introduce quite substantial changes in the Australian taxation structure. Those changes will be framed between now and the presentation of that Budget. There are policy matters still to be determined. But I can assure the honourable member for Adelaide that all these matters are under deep discussion by the Government and that documents will be submitted to Cabinet shortly recommending quite substantial changes. 
I do not want to answer the same question again, but I repeat- 
I will try to get it right and I hope the honourable member will read it right; I sometimes have my doubts about his capacity to do so. The figures showed a projected Budget deficit of $630m. After the Budget was written, certain other commitments that ought to have been foreseeable at the time of the Budget were introduced for reasons best known to the Government. These changes added substantial sums to the figure. In addition there were changes in the wage structure which inevitably added another $40m-odd. The point I made was that if the projected deficit is divided into 6 parts only one-sixth of it is due to the action of the new Government and five-sixths of it is due to the inheritance. I will not quibble about whether the amount is within precisely $10m or $12m or so. r do not have the exact figure before me at the moment. But the figure appears in that document. In my view it is beyond argument. We added to the sum because we inherited this state of unemployment. I do not know whether the impact of our measures has been full yet, but certainly there has been a substantial fall in unemployment figures between January and February. 
What 1 find astonishing is that in all this talk about the first 100 days or, if you like, the first quarter of the life of this Government members of the previous Government which had been in power for the best part of 100 quarters- 23 years - seem to want to be consoled only about the figures of the last quarter. Had the honourable gentlemen been accurate in quoting some of these figures relating to an uprise in national production and so on and if they had looked at the absymal graph that accompanied them they would have seen that in the previous 3 quarters under the previous Government the performance had actually gone negative - that there had been a decline in the sum. Surely when you have had a great declension it is time for some sort of rise, and that rise is borne out by the figures for the last quarter. I hope that the additional stimulus that will be given to those who deserve it, namely those in receipt of social service benefits, will be reflected in a greater stimulus in consumer spending in the next quarter. One ought not to be dismal about that prospect; one ought to applaud it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is; to obtain parliamentary authority for the appropriation of moneys for new and reconstituted departments as a result of the Administrative Arrangement's Order of 20th December 1972. In addition, provision has been made for a further appropriation for the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account and for an increase is the level of the Advance to the Treasurer. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $56,050,000. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1972-73 by $56,050,000. Due to factors which I will explain it is expected that there will be savings of about $24.4m under previous appropriations which are no longer legally available. However, as a matter of law moneys appropriated by Parliament for specific purposes may be used only for those purposes, and savings under appropriations no longer legally available cannot be utilised to reduce to a net figure the appropriations sought in this Bill. Thus I am seeking parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in the divisions, subdivisions and items, set out in the schedule to the Bill. 
The Appropriations sought for departmental salaries of $19,468,400 and administrative expenses of $10,731,600 arise from the establishment of new departments and the restructuring of existing departments under the Administrative Arrangements Order of 20th December 1972. It is expected that these expenditures will be offset by savings of some $24.4m in appropriations to departments now abolished or reconstructed. I should explain why the offsetting savings of $24.4m are so much less than the expenditures of $30.2m proposed in the Bill. In the first place, there are no existing appropriations to cover the costs of the central offices of several new departments. Their expenditures, which amount to a modest $572,000 are therefore additional to the 1972-73 Budget figures. In the case of those departments included in the Bills which have taken over existing services it has been necessary to revise their expenditures and include provisions for existing and additional staff at the latest rates of pay and to provide for an increase in their administrative expenses. These amounts, estimated at $4.5m, would normally be included in the additional estimates Bills to be presented to the Parliament In April. 
A further appropriation of $10,850,000 has been included in the Bill for the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. Of this sum, $7,500,000 will be made available to the States to supplement funds already provided by the Commonwealth to cover expenditures in such fields as housing, education and health. The remaining $3,350,000 is for expenditure by the Commonwealth on its own Aboriginal advancement programs. Eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars of this has been allocated to legal aid for Aborigines. Provision has also been made for an increase of $15m in the, appropriation for the Advance to the Treasurer. The Advance, for which $30m was provided in Appropriation Act No. 1, is to enable the Treasurer to make advances that will be recovered during the financial year or to make moneys available, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament or pending the issue of a warrant of the GovernorGeneral specifically applicable to the expenditure. Twelve million dollars has already been issued out of the Advance to meet expenditures incurred both before and after the Government took up office. This leaves $18m for commitments which have to be met before the appropriations from additional estimates become available towards the end of May. I estimate that the requirements of civil departments in that period will be about $23m and, of defence departments, $8m. Details of these expenditures will be included in the additional estimates Bills to be introduced next month. 
Since the revised Administrative Arrangements Order came into effect necessary expenditures for the new and reconstituted departments on salaries and administrative expenses were, as a matter of practical expediency and with minor exceptions, charged to existing appropriations including those provided for departments which were abolished. This ceased as at 28th February 1973. The Bill therefore includes clauses validating those expenditures which, for all legal and practical purposes, are deemed as expenditures for the services provided in the Second Schedule to Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1972-73. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Gorton)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for the appropriation of moneys for capital works and services for new and reconstituted departments as a result of the administrative arrangements order of 20th December 1972. In addition provision has been made for a special loan to New South Wales and for grants to the States for employment creating purposes. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $67,944,000. Although additional appropriations are being sought actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1972-73 by the sum of $67,944,000. It is expected that the appropriations of $21,124,000 sought for capital works and services will be offset by savings of some $21,750,000 in appropriations which are no longer legally available. However, as I explained in relation to Appropriation Bill (No. 3), it is not possible to utilise savings under an appropriation to offset additional expenditure in another. 
The appropriation of $15m for a loan to New South Wales follows an undertaking of the former Government to provide special budgetary assistance to that State. The provision of $31,820,000 for employment creating purposes will enable the States to proceed with approved projects in accordance with agreements reached with the Commonwealth. As with Appropriation Bill No. 3 it has been necessary to include in this Bill a clause validating expenditures of the new and reconstituted departments since 20th December 1972 as expenditures for the services included in the Second Schedule to Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1972-73. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Gorton)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read  a  second  time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to the provision of a guarantee by the Commonwealth for a borrowing in various currencies equivalent to $US9.8m- $A6.9m at ruling rates by the Administration of Papua New Guinea from the Asian Development Bank. The proceeds of the loan will assist in financing a highway project in Papua New Guinea. The project was appraised by a team of experts from the Bank in September 1972 and consists of the upgrading, realignment and sealing of 75 miles of the Highlands Highway between Lae and Waterais; the upgrading and new construction of 62.5 miles of the Hiritano Highway between Port Moresby and Bereina; and the provision of consultancy services for detailed engineering design and construction supervision of both roads. 
The Highlands Highway between Lae and Goroka was completed as a gravel surfaced road in 1965 and is the only access road to the Highlands area which contains almost half the total population of Papua New Guinea. By reducing transport costs to the port of Lae the proposed new work on this highway is expected to provide further impetus to the economic development of the area. The Hiritano Highway extends west parallel to the coast from Port Moresby. The project involves the upgrading of 30.5 miles of existing road and new construction of 32 miles of road between the Veimauri River and Bereina, thus providing for the first time road access to Port Moresby from the fertile Mekeo area. The road link will substantially assist the development of the area and facilitate the supply of fresh foods for the Port Moresby market. 
The loan is the second which the Asian Development Bank has made to the Administration since the admission of Papua New Guinea to membership of the Bank in April 1971. The first loan of $US4.5m was for re lending to the Papua New Guinea Development Bank and the Commonwealth guarantee for that loan was approved by the Papua New Guinea Loan (Asian Development Bank) Act 1972. The present loan will be made from the special funds resources of the Bank and will be used to finance the foreign exchange costs of the highways project. The loan carries an interest rate of 3 per cent per annum and will be for a period of  24i  years with repayments commencing after 41 years. 
Borrowings by the Papua New Guinea Administration automatically carry a Commonwealth guarantee by virtue of the operation of section 75a of the Papua New Guinea Act 1949-1971. In practice, however, this provision is usually supplemented in some way for borrowings other than those in Australia and Papua New Guinea. The guarantee which is required by the Asian Development Bank from the Commonwealth as a precondition for this loan is in the form of a letter of assurances which is shown as the First Schedule to the Bill. I would mention that at the time of Papua New Guinea's admission to the Asian Development Bank Australia gave an undertaking to the Bank in accordance with Article 3.3 of the agreement establishing the Bank that, until Papua New Guinea itself assumes responsibility for its own international relations, Australia would be responsible for all obligations that may be incurred by Papua New Guinea by reason of its admission to membership in the Bank and enjoyment of the benefits of such membership. 
In addition to guaranteeing the repayment of principal and payment of interest and other charges on the loan until such time as Papua New Guinea assumes responsibility for its own international relations, the letter gives certain other customary assurances required by the Bank. Because these assurances go further than the statutory guarantee already provided under section 75a of the Papua New Guinea Act it is necessary for specific Commonwealth legislation to be passed in order for the assurances to constitute valid and binding obligations of the Commonwealth as required by the Bank. 
This Bill authorises the Treasurer to notify the Asian Development Bank that the Commonwealth approves the terms and conditions of the loan and provides that the undertakings in the letter of assurances shall be valid and binding obligations of the Commonwealth when this notification is given. The Bill also provides that payments of principal and interest and of any other charges on the loan will be free from taxation and from any restrictions imposed under Australian law or laws in effect in its Territories. In addition the Bill includes an appropriation of any moneys that may be required by the Commonwealth to make any payments under the guarantee contained in the letter of assurances. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
I think the Bill contains a schedule but I doubt whether the letter is in it. However, I will make inquiries. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Snedden)  adjourned. 
I say categorically that I believe there are enough financial institutions in Australia already. What is required is sensible adaptation to meet the needs of those who require credit. Having listened to the previous question, it astonishes me that, after 23 years of such great government, rural reconstruction of the magnitude sought by the Opposition is required. The task of any government, as my colleague the Minister for Northern Development indicated, is to do justice to all of those groups which are seeking credit. Unfortunately there are always more seekers of credit than suppliers of it. Therefore one has to have a sensible rationing of it. My belief is that the Development Bank as it was set up has not fulfilled its objectives. One of the Government's early tasks will be to expand and widen its functions and to use it for making credit available at the lowest possible terms to those who seek it, both rural and otherwise. I find it arguable at the moment as to whether there is justice in home builders in a country town having to pay 7 per cent interest while other people in the same area think they should be able to obtain finance at 5 per cent. 
I move: 
That a Joint Committee be appointed to inquire into and, as appropriate, report upon - 
complaints arising from prices charged by private industry; 
movements in prices of goods and services in particular fields or sections of private industry, for example, as measured by price indices; and 
such other matters relating to .prices as may be referred to the committee by resolution of either House of the Parliament. 
That the committee consist of four Members of the House  of  Representatives nominated by the Prime Minister, two Members  of the  House  of  Representatives nominated by the Leader  of  the Opposition  in the House of Representatives, one Member of the House of Representatives nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the House of Representatives, two Senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and one  Senator nominated  by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a joint committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the Prime Minister nominate one of the government members of the committee as Chairman. 
That the  Chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the committee and that the member so appointed act as  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of it member and to refer to any such sub-committee any of the matters which the committee is empowered to examine 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament. 
That the committee have leave to report from lime to time and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That five members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and two members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That in matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  presiding at the meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality o voting, have a casting vote, and that, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
That the committee be provided with a' necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
That the committee recognise the need for cooperation between the Commonwealth and consumer protection bodies in the States. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
I would like to amplify the document as it is before the House. As is well known, the Labor Party as part of its propositions during the recent election campaign suggested that because of the wide concern in the community about inflation, and arising out of our belief that wages are not the only factor to be considered as leading to inflation - we believe that prices should also be considered - we would establish certain mechanisms to assist in the regulation of prices and to try better to adjudicate the social equation as between prices and wages. The Joint Committee on Prices that is now proposed is one of those mechanisms. The other aspect concerning us is the passage of legislation later in this session to establish a prices justification board. A further aspect of the mechanism, in addition to the committee now under consideration, is that we should strengthen what are called consumer protection agencies. All of these would be elements in an endeavour to grapple with this very difficult problem. 
In listening to questions and debates in the House in recent weeks one would almost think that inflation in Australia was an entirely new phenomenon that had never been experienced before. I remind the House that it is clear from the whole history of Australia since statistics about prices have been kept that we have had inflation at an average of over  2i  per cent per annum for .about 70 years. That certainly was the average of inflation in Australia over the last 10 years or so. In that time it has been a minimum on average of  2i  per cent. Sometimes it was a little more; unfortunately, very rarely was it a little less. Inflation ran at a rate of 6 per cent per annum 2 years ago and 7 per cent per annum in the period to June 1972. For the 2 recorded quarters in 1972-73 inflation is still running at the rather undesirable rate of near enough to 5 per cent. 
The presumptions are that when the figure for the March quarter is published in 3 or 4 weeks' time it will show an increase of from 1.5 per cent to 2 per cent because of the impact in that quarter of food prices, and the price of meat in particular. 
 As would be expected, the honourable member will blame the Labor Government. 
 If it is proper, exactly. I am saying that to suggest that inflation did not exist prior to this Government's coming into office seems to be flying in the face of facts. We believe, and I hope the Opposition will co-operate with us, that something has to be done about prices; that it is no good simply saying, as the previous Government seemed to be disposed to say, that the only thing that matters is wages. If prices rise, and the whole history of recent times has been that they have risen, and if there is something that is called correctivity - that with a given set of inputs you get a greater output - labour is entitled to its share of that productivity. How does the wage earner, in the absence of lowering prices, maintain his status, not only to account for rising prices but also to get his share of productivity, unless his wages rise at least as much as prices plus productivity? 
Such other factors as taxation can be considered. In 1954 when the present rate structure of income tax was laid down - the present progressive scale - the average weekly earnings were about $34. If a wage earner's weekly wage was increased by $1, tax took 17c of that dollar. In 1973 when average weekly earnings have increased to about $100, an additional $1 received attracts a tax rate of over one-third. That factor also has to be taken into account. My Party believes, and the public, by and large, believes, that as a matter of equity and social justice something ought to be done about prices. As evidence of our bona fides we are taking this first step of setting up the Joint Committee on Prices. I hope that the move will have the cooperation of the other side of the House. 
I do not believe that the mere fact that a task looks difficult is a very good reason for not essaying the task. Nobody will acknowledge that regulating or trying to control prices is an easy process. On the other hand, there is a great deal of obligation on the part of those people who claim to believe in market forces as a regulator of prices. A great deal of responsibility rests on their shoulders to explain in the presence of those so-called market forces why prices still continue to rise. One could chide the previous government, but I suppose that there is scarcely an example anywhere of a western democracy that has been very successful in holding the line as far as prices are concerned. We get all sorts of interesting economic theories as to why inflation takes place, varying all the way from high economics to abstract psychology. But, of course, in the end result prices are not matters of accident. In many cases they are a matter of deliberate making on the part of people whose decisions at the moment are beyond any challenge and who do not have to bear any responsibility for those decisions. The contrary is the case with wages; wages have to be negotiated. We have a long history of arbitral functioning in Australia. I point out again that I do not believe anyone thinks that the existing arbitration system is satisfactory. But at least we can point to something like 64 years over which time this system has evolved. 
These are some of the matters one has to get to. All I say as far as these joint committees are concerned is that we will not get in Australia anything that can be described as an incomes policy - there is a whole area of debate about whether incomes policies are possible or desirable - if we do not have as a minimum condition agreement between employer groups and employee groups. At least the Government can act as an honest broker in that process rather than was the case under the previous Government of taking one side only, namely that of trying to keep wages low. 
We believe that we should take this first step of doing something about prices, and this is not an easy step to take because there are a great deal of difficulties in the way. One ought to acknowledge that we virtually start ab initio in Australia in this situation. Nothing systematic has been done about the regulation of prices in Australia since the dismantling of the war-time mechanisms. The war-time mechanisms operated in an entirely different situation. They operated in terms of rationing of materials, shortages of resources and so on. I know that sometimes there are unscrupulous attempts to prove that price control during the war years failed and therefore it is foolish to try it again. I submit that is not a very convincing argument in the face of the situation of the 1970s. I believe that the way economic forces are mobilising in an economy in which we are getting larger and larger aggregates of economic ownership and greater concentrations of employment within those larger industries, it is becoming very difficult to identify with any degree of rationality what an individual's contribution is to the economic process. How do we decide on any national basis that a judge is worth $30,000 a year and somebody else is worth $3,000 a year? 
It is getting harder to establish what people do by their physical output, even if we could measure physical output. There are large areas in which it is hard to identify physical output. After all, one does not think that a teacher who teaches 50 children is responsible for greater productivity than a teacher who teaches 25. What we think about is the low quality of education. These are some of the difficult problems facing us and it is for that reason that I hope members on the Opposition side will at least believe that the Labor Party is sincere in its endeavour to tackle a very difficult task. 
I was not very consoled by the words I read in a paper this morning which were attributed to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  who said that the proposal to set up a committee to inquire into prices was a cosmetic act or a sham. 1 reiterate that we take this situation seriously. We believe that the establishment of this committee is a significant step which ought to have been taken some time ago. After all, one need only look at the kind of political areas that have existed from time to time in the countries with which on occasions we like to compare ourselves. The United States some 18 months ago while appearing to abandon its policy of compulsion has been acting more on the yoyo principle that it can come back again if the voluntary principle does not work. More recently we have seen the Conservative Government in the United Kingdom introduce a prices and wages board. 
I accept the point raised by my colleague on the other side that maybe there should be control of both wages and prices. But we on this side of the House believe that we have had control of wages in Australia for a long period but we have not had control of prices, and this is the mechanism that we are now proposing to create. We realise the enormity of the task and in some ways the terms of reference of this committee have been left very broad because we believe that the committee to a great extent has to find its own way as it goes. It is not intended that this committee should be a fixing body itself. If one may describe it, it is supposed to be a channel of communication in one sense and a sounding board for complaints on the other. One surely knows that there are enough complaints from the public and that often the  Mrs Joneses  and the  Mrs Smiths  of the community in the face of rising prices do not know precisely where they can go about their complaints or where they can go to seek an explanation as to what is wrong. This is why we are establishing this mechanism. No doubt we will receive letters from all sorts of people who have odd views. Representations will be made also by people with quite sound views. It will be the job of this committee to try to sift the evidence that it will receive. 
The committee will be able to look at some of the standard barometers we have for deciding whether the price situation is rising more than it should. I have already quoted as one example the consumer price index and the various components within it. Sometimes by looking at the components, or the individual parts of the components, one can see that the cost of food in one quarter is rising more than it should, that housing costs are rising more than perhaps they should or that prices in clothing or some other areas are rising more than they should. The committee will be able to say: 'Well, we ought to be having a look at these areas'. I suppose that one of the greatest expenses in any individual's life is the purchase of the home that he wants to live in. When buying a house an individual is beset with items such as the price of the land, building costs and the awful burden of interest rates. The same sort of situation applies to the motor car which is probably the second biggest single item of expenditure for an individual. We hope this committee will integrate the process that we think is necessary in Australia if we are seriously to grapple with many of the economic problems that beset us. We have bodies like the Tariff Board and the Trade Practices Tribunal. We have legislation dealing with foreign takeovers. But in many respects all these authorities work separately and independently rather than coherently. I am minded that, as far back as 1959, the Constitutional Review Committee, work of which had the unanimous support of both sides of this House, in its interim report pointed out the inability in Australia to pursue what could be called an integrated economic policy. We believe that an essential part of an integrated economic policy in Australia is that, in the social equation as between prices and wages, the prices question must be grappled with seriously. To grapple with it certain mechanisms are needed. The proposed committee is only the beginning of what we regard as those necessary social and protective mechanisms. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr N.  H. Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Of course wage rises which are really excessive add to inflationary pressures, just as excessive increases in profit margins add to such pressures. 
The Government took over an economy in which cost inflationary influences were already entrenched. Decreasing the rate of inflation is not something which is achieved by one or two specific measures- it requires an appropriate mix of Government policies operating over an adequate period of time to obtain their effects. However, the revaluation of the Australian dollar last December was a specific measure having a directimpact in the right direction so far as prices are concerned. The more rapid growth in the economy in recent months will also help through the favourable effect on unit costs. 
To reduce it. 
The Government has done what is practicable tothis point of time. Prices justification machinery will be brought into being at the earliest practicable time. 
Electoral Redistribution in Western Australia  (Question No. 173) 
There was deep concern in the United States of America at the rapidly rising price situation particularly, as has been suggested, with respect to food prices, meat standing out as the worst example. Perhaps I should say one or two things in passing. In the United States there have been some pretty good examples of consumer resistance to the situation. I should hope that more of this would begin to be evident in Australia and also that there would be a realisation that in Australia the States have far more power in these fields than they have cared to exercise. 
Including the non-Labor States and particularly the 2 States which between them contain two-thirds of the population of Australia - Victoria and New South Wales - and which do not have Labor governments and whose governments seem to be concerned about the fate of the electors only a month or two before an election. If  Mr Hamer,  in particular, instead of taking action against mock auctions took action about this very real problem that is evident the public might take him a little more seriously. As the questioner has said, in some respects the prices that have been received for meat in the United States of America have had adverse effects on the price of meat in Australia although here again the easy answer is that it is all a question of the law of supply and demand. I think that every party ought to recognise, as is being recognised by the United States, that the question of rapidly rising prices seriously concerns the public and, rightly or wrongly, the public believes that the problem is remediable by government action, and most believe that that remedial action should be at the Federal level. I think that is a rather over-simplified situation. I do not think that there can be a serious grappling with that problem in Australia unless in the process there is the fullest co-operation by the States and the Commonwealth and also by the Opposition in this Parliament. I hope that those lessons may be observed. At least consumer resentment in the United States did lead to very firm action at the Presidential level to control the prices of beef, lamb and pork. 
 I should like to read out again the wording of the matter of public importance that has been raised today because I think that anyone listening would wonder what the debate was about. It reads: 
The damage done to the Australian mining industry by recent decisions and statements of the Commonwealth Government. 
I agree with the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  that perhaps it is unbelievable that when these mining contracts were written 10 or more years ago they should have been written in terms other than Ameri can dollars. However, what I find unbelievable is that they should have been written for such large quantities and forward for such lengths of time without any reference whatever to variations in the exchange rate from the time at which they were written. 
What are we talking about? We are talking about the transfer of Australian assets and resources, basically to Japan. The difficulty is not that there is anything wrong with the quantities that are being sold; what is wrong is the price at which they are being exchanged. Almost half of the speech of the former Minister who led this debate was taken up with references to changes in the currency. There were some changes in the currency in his time, but they did not go far enough. Early in December last year we had to complete the job that the previous Government should have been courageous enough to assume. What happened subsequently in February was a decision not of the Australian Government but of the United States Government. 
The effects of the revaluation by Australia, the devaluation by the United States and also the devaluation, if you like, of our currency in relation to what has happened to the yen, have accumulated into the problem that is causing some concern now to the mining industry in Western Australia. My colleague the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  already has received numerous representations from the interests affected. Some of those affected have gone to Japan to try  to  renegotiate the terms. The Minister himself is prepared to use his good offices when the time arrives to do something about it. But simply to bleat, as did the former Minister and the 2 other honourable members opposite who have taken part in this very feeble debate from their side up to now, and  to  accept no responsibility for what was slowly happening in the past seems to me to indicate just how much the previous Government had vacated its responsibilities as a government. 
As my colleague the Minister for Minerals and Energy has indicated, we are not going  to  allow Australian resources to be sold  off  cheaply. If anything confirms the wisdom  of  what this Government did on 23rd December last it is the subsequent events that took place in Europe in the first month or two in 1973. If honourable members opposite want to compare our currency and circumstances with those  of  Brazil, they are welcome  to do so. 
The former Minister who led this debate for the Opposition said that Australia abroad had the reputation of a banana republic. Normally he is not much given to making extravagant statements like that, but I suggest that it is an absurd statement. I have just returned from the United States and I found there ready acceptance of what the new Australian Government has done in recent months and a readiness also to accept that we are entitled to protect our natural heritage against the ravages of exchange fluctuations and so on. 
If anything is confirmed by the fall in the value of the dollar in recent times and if one likes to look at comparisons with the sort of countries with which one ought to be making comparisons one sees that Australia, alongside most other countries, has now revalued roughly 21 per cent against the American dollar it is that we have been selling off our heritage cheaply. We have allowed foreign capital, particularly American capital to acquire our assets cheaply. That is the situation which we have endeavoured to bring to a head. To talk now about the losses that have accumulated out of the stupidity of quoting, and continuing to quote, transactions between Australia and Japan in terms of American dollars, to bleat at the losses of some hundreds of millions of dollars and to ignore what must have been the losses of thousands of millions of dollars over the years because the prices were never right in the first place simply shows the unreality of the attack and, I think, confirms the reason why honourable members opposite are now in opposition and we are in government. 
What is at stake here is the development of Australia's natural resources and to use the term 'banana republic', as the former Minister did, is simply to show that in the 1970s, in what is supposed to be the decade of development, honourable members opposite are still living in the age of colonial exploitation, as far as their attitudes are concerned. Fortunately, there are no banana republics left and this is one of the realities which the United States, in particular, has to realise in the years ahead. The United States will not be able to exploit the natural resources of other countries with the same ease in the future as it did in the past. It faces very critical problems internationally with its own economic stability. The United States has serious problems and they affect honourable members who represent the Australian Country Party. 
No longer will the United States be able to obtain its food cheaply from countries like Australia because other parts of the world are demanding the same kinds of standards in the future as the United States has been able to command in the past. 
Above all, the very critical problem facing the United States is a shortage of energy, and Australia is one of the countries fortunately placed at the moment with respect to natural gas. The Minister for Minerals and Energy, who is sitting at the table, is one who is not prepared to sell off these resources cheaply. He acknowledges the need for international trade but he acknowledges the need for international trade on fair terms. The Opposition's complaint today is that over a considerable number of years now Australia has been undertaking international trade on unfavourable terms. It took the currency revaluation to bring that matter to an economic reality. We acknowledge it. It is something that we inherited, and it is something that we intend to change. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Drury)The discussion is concluded. 
Sometimes I think there are none so deaf as those who will not heed. I have had discussions about the future of the US dollar. I do not have to defend the US dollar. I think the wisest statement I have heard in this context was made by  Mr Kearns  of the Export-Import Bank. When he was asked shortly after the devaluation of the American dollar: 'What is wrong with the American dollar?' he said: 'There is nothing much wrong with the American dollar at home'. This highlights the difficulties. America isless dependent than most countries upon export and import trade. It is much less dependent, for instance, than is Australia. In Australia we get a (figure of somethinglike 25 per cent to 30 per cent when we add our exports and imports together, in a sort of curious conjunction, and relate them to our gross domestic product, whereas in the US the figure is only 5 per cent or 6 per cent. 
Nevertheless, as far as the future is concerned, as  Mr Schultz  and others who attended the meetings that I attended suggested, unless internal discipline is applied in the US - the main internal discipline must be in relation to the flow of capital in future - I do not think there can be any certainty about the future of the parity of the United States dollar. I was assured by those who are the custodians of that currency, namely,  Mr Schultz  as head of the Treasury and  Dr Arthur  Burns as head of the Federal Reserve Bank, that they believe the dollar has reached its bottom. They adhere to that view. But I simply repeat that I do not think anybody can be categorical about the future of any currency until an attempt is made to grapple seriously with the problems of better terms of trade and some better regulation of the flows of capital. The United States is involved in all those sorts of things. It has difficulties in resolving the proper ratio between itself and Japan. I think- 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy expressed a view which I think is consonant with what I am now saying, that nobody can be certain. But insofar as this- 
I am not one who tries to be clever about a situation like this. 
I cannot be any cleverer than you. We both have to be as clever as we can in the face of complex circumstances, many of which are beyond our ability to control. I do not have to defend the status of the United States dollar; I have to defend the status of the Australian dollar and I believe that I have done so very successfully. 
I move: 
That the  Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a machinery measure which is necessary to meet legal and constitutional requirements associated with the Government's end-of-year financial transactions. Honourable members will be aware that the Australian Government's transactions are recorded in 3 separate funds - the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loan Fund and the Trust Fund. Current estimates of the Government's financial transactions indicate that expenditures in 1972-73 on items presently being charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund will exceed receipts of that Fund. However, expenditures from the Consolidated Revenue Fund cannot be appropriated in excess of receipts of that Fund; a deficit, therefore, cannot be incurred. 
The normal procedure followed in the past to cope with a situation in which there was a prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund has been to charge some expenditures which would normally be met from that Fund to another fund. This Bill is designed to permit such a procedure. The Bill authorises that borrowings be made for defence purposes so that defence expenditures in the remaining months of the year can then be charged to the Loan Fund rather than the Consolidated Revenue Fund, thus utilising funds available in the Loan Fund and avoiding a deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The Bill does not, I should stress, seek to authorise any additional expenditures; its purpose is simply to re-allocate part of expenditures on defence services specified in the relevant Appropriation Acts for 1972-73 from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund. 
While it is clear that, on the basis of the 1972-73 Budget provisions and subsequent measures, Consolidated Revenue Fund expenditures will exceed Consolidated Revenue Fund receipts in 1972-73 by a significant margin it is not possible at this stage to forecast precisely the likely Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit. Much will depend on the flow of tax payments, which is only now gathering momentum and therefore difficult to forecast with a high degree of accuracy. The Bill before the House would provide authority for borrowings up to $300m - a figure which is considered adequate to meet any deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund that can reasonably be foreseen at this time. Finally, I would emphasise again that the proposed Act is a machinery measure of a kind taken in past years when a similar situation has arisen. It does not authorise any increase in expenditures. Its essential purpose is to re-allocate expenditures approved by Parliament between the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the Loan Fund. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I did hear expressions of approval of the action taken by Australia on 23rd December. There was also approval of our sticking to our decision when the American dollar was devalued. 
I must say that I find it rather astonishing that honourable members opposite apparently defend the proposition that Australia's currency should be devalued rather than revalued. If one makes a comparison between the movement of the Australian dollar from the time of the Smithsonian agreement until the present time and that of every currency except the United States dollar, one finds that we have reached the same point as nearly all the other substantial currencies with which we like ours to be compared. I would have thought that people should take a little pride in the integrity of their currency. But there seems to be a suggestion in some quarters that it would have been better had our currency been devalued. I simply make the proposition that what has happened to the Australian dollar since 23rd December shows very clearly that where we sold our products in terms of the American dollar we sold them cheap and where others accumulated assets in Australia in terms of the American dollar they bought them cheap. If there is defence of buying and selling cheap, those who want to defend it are welcome to that defence. 
 in reply - I thank the  3  gentlemen who have spoken in this debate, all of them former Ministers of the Crown at various times, for their support of the measure. I am somewhat astonished that they seem to think that inflation is a new problem. I would remind them that over the whole life of their Government inflation existed at an average rate of over  2i  per cent. What happened in the last few years of their term in office, according to the Consumer Price Index and taking December as the reflex point, in  1969  inflation was running at  2.8  per cent, in  1970  it was  4.9  per cent, in  1971  it was  7  per cent and when the previous Government left office in December of  1 972  it was still running at  4.6  per cent. 
Well, it was coming back, but it had gone a long way. I am intrigued by the way honourable members opposite sought to extrapolate on the basis of the March figure, that is to be announced next week, which could well be  2  per cent. They are prepared to accept that that means, multiplying that figure by  4,  that inflation is now  8  per cent to  9  per cent a year. I think, to begin with, that that is a gross distortion of statistics. As those honourable members know, there are very good reasons for the figure rising in the March quarter. This has a lot to do with the prices of foodstuffs, particularly the price of meat. These movements will be reflected in the figure for the March quarter which will be released shortly. But there is no suggestion that that necessarily will continue in the June quarter or the September quarter. 
I suggest with all respect that those honourable members are being a little glib in suggesting that inflation is now running at  8  to  9  per cent a year. If it is it is little worse than it was  2  years ago when it was running for a complete year at a rate of  7  per cent. I, like everybody else, believe that inflation is a serious problem. As I have said in this place on several occasions when I have had the opportunity to do so,  1  think this problem demands the co-operation of the Opposition and the Government to try to solve it. One can be clever and suggest that all of the fault is with wages and none of the fault is anywhere else. I think that is an over-simplistic description of the situation. As I said yesterday, rightly or wrongly the public believes that governments can do something about the price situation. 
May I just ask for a little less noise from the Opposition side of the House, if honourable members over there do not mind. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has his back to me and is talking to his colleagues. I find this a little irritating. If honourable members want to talk they should do so outside the chamber. I suggest that members of the Opposition in particular ought to be listening to what I am saying. I have listened to them and I think I am entitled to a certain amount of courtesy in endeavouring to give them a reply. 
I do not sleep. If the honourable member slept it would not matter; if I sleep it does. I listened to what was said by the honourable member's 3 colleagues. If he wants to be cheap and try to score that way he should at least be honest. 
I was endeavouring to say that the problem of inflation is a serious one and that the public believes that governments can do something about it. When the public is asked which government, they believe it is the Federal government. I repeat again that inflation is not a new problem. I suggest that attempting to grapple with the regulation of prices is a new approach to this problem. The previous Government did not adopt this measure. I say again that rightly or wrongly the trade union movement in Australia believes that wages are regulated. If one works for General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd one cannot fix one's wage and one has to go to arbitration about it. But those who make the motor car can fix their own price without having to justify that price to anybody. At least this has been the case. 
I believe that ultimately all western capitalist societies will adopt what is called an incomes policy. I agree that the introduction of an incomes policy in Australia will be a very difficult matter. But the minimum condition of getting agreement on the introduction of such a policy is that the trade union movement be willing to accept it. The trade union movement believes that the first condition for any acceptance on its part of such a move is that something should be done about fixing prices. Starting ab initio since the war, we find that except for the States, South Australia in particular, which has done better than anyone else, and except for certain rudimentary arrangements in the fixing of prices of products such as milk, bread and to some extent even beer, there has been virtually no systematic attempt to fix prices in Australia. Because we are a federal system we have constitutional difficulties. But we are approaching this matter on a 3-tier basis. We are attempt-, ing through the prices justification legislation, which I hope will be in this House after the Easter break and which has been much more difficult to draft than we had imagined, to look after what might be called the big boys as far as price fixing is concerned. 
Exactly; that is the tribunal, and it will be concerned with prices that have the effect of flowing on into the economic structure. One pretty good example of this is the dry run we had before the legislation in relation to the price of steel. Secondly, the Government will set up in this House the mechanism of a committee that will be a sounding board and a channel of communication from the public to the Parliament and from the Parliament to some sort of solution of the difficulties. Thirdly, we believe that something must be done at the retail level. The best means of doing this is for the Commonwealth to provide finance, for the States to strengthen their agencies of consumer protection and to have voluntary bodies in the community which can help to monitor the system. In the end, the main complaint about prices comes from the housewives and shoppers of the nation and, mainly, from the 2 capital cities of Melbourne and Sydney. 
It is a reality that two-thirds of the population of Australia is in the 2 States of Victoria and New South Wales, with nearly half the population living in or within 50 or 60 miles of the 2 big cities of Sydney and Melbourne. To some extent the problems in those 2 States are different. We believe that, for there to he effective regulation of prices, it is necessary to have co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth. I have said repeatedly in this House that I hope we will get the co-operation of the 2 States of Victoria and New South Wales in this matter, even though politically they happen to have governments of a different complexion from this one. They are the central areas and I make the plea, believing that the public wants something done about it. 
I realise, as a student of economics over a good number of years and now as a very serious practitioner in a very particular place, that there are difficulties in regulating prices. But on the other hand I believe that those who claim to support market mechanisms in the interests of justice have a lot to answer for in regard to the present situation. If those people will heed and listen to exhortation and do justice as well, we may not need as much regulation as now seems necessary. A few days ago I came back from that great countryand it is a great country and it is still the strongest single economic entity in the world - the United States of America, which claims still to be almost the apothosis of what is described as free private enterprise. Even in the United States there now exists a demand to return to what was termed'phase 2', and even to return to price regulation. 
Again, I indicate to those on the opposite side of this Parliament who may want to be sceptics on the subject that there is a very real belief on the part of the public that something must be done about prices other than letting market forces determine them. It may be a difficult task, but merely because it is a difficult task is no reason why we should refuse to take it on. 
I hope you do that, and I will be interested to see the attitude of the Opposition when an amendment comes back from the other place. If honourable members opposite just want to play politics in this matter, fair enough. But I would have hoped that that motion on the prices committee would have been through both Houses by now. It is through this House but it is not through the other place because members of the Party to which the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  belongs have chosen to side with a minority group in trying to play politics. The politics that are being played are to try to insert into that motion the requirement that something should be done about the pricing of public enterprises. I make the point that, after all, public pricing is subject to examination in the parliaments of the nation. The Post Office tariffs cannot be altered without the alteration coming here. The electricity tariffs in Victoria cannot be altered without the alteration going to the Victorian Government. But for some curious reason, again in the name of thinking that 'private' should be treated in the same way as 'public', members of the Opposition want to add a rather curious amendment to the motion for the prices committee that the Government intends to set up. 
I say in all seriousness that public pricing is subject to some sort of scrutiny, but private pricing is not. That is the purpose of the proposed prices committee. Someone else earlier this evening-I think it was my friend, the 
Treasurer of some years ago - spoke about the vast increase in the volume of money in the community, again implying that such an increase had taken place only since 2nd December. Some people seem to think that that is the day that inflation started. 1 have been trying to suggest that inflation has been with us for a long time and that this Government is the first one that has tried seriously to grapple with it. I notice that one of the newspapers this morning was trying to quote the latest monthly figures from a Treasury document and, as often happens, the newspaper misquoted them, saying that the amount of money in the community was now $ 1,684m, while 12 months ago it was $l,206m, implying somehow that that indicates an increase in inflation of about $400m and suggesting that it has all happened in the last 2 or 3 months. 
I point out that the biggest single figure contributing to that situation is the issue of Treasury bills and again I would suggest that those who want to read the figures honestly should have a look at the figures at least since the beginning of the current financial year,1st July 1972. They will see that that vast increase in Treasury bills began under the previous Government, as did the vast increase in the volume of money. It is a serious problem to regulate an economy in total and it is always a serious problem when the biggest single means of income distribution in a community is the wage system. If we did nothing about prices, it is inevitable that wages at least would try to keep pace with prices. If we believe, as everybody does, in raising standards and in something called productivity, the only way in which we can maintain the standards of the wage earners and give them their share of productivity in the face of prices not falling is to increase wages. 
In the ultimate, the greatest problem that a democratic community must face is the problem of equity in the distribution of the total resources that the economy is capable of generating. Insofar as the majority of those who take a share take a share as wage earners, the greatest single problem in the economy is the relationship of wages and prices, or the social equation. It seems to me that this is the problem that we have failed to grapple with in the economy in recent years. To expect that miracles are going to happen overnight to solve this great problem is flying in the face of reality. No Western economy has satisfactorily solved the problem of full employment and inflation. 
I am humble enough to accept that I do not have a simple, single solution to that great problem. But I believe that we will not achieve social cohesion and social cooperation unless it is acknowledged that something has to be done about prices. In our own groping way we are beginning to do that. We have great difficulties in our path. 1 said the other day that it is not much of a defence afterwards to say that when you saw a lion in your path you did not recognise what it was, particularly when you might be finishing up inside it. There are great problems that beset us. We have to acknowledge what they are and we have to begin to grapple with them. That is why I plead with the Opposition to appreciate that we are serious about endeavouring to do something about prices. I hope that we receive co-operation and not sheer politicking in the Opposition's approach. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I draw attention firstly to the motion. It is a motion to suspend Standing Orders. It does not in any sense suspend the right to questions later. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has assumed that. Maybe he is right; I do not know. 
 I have been in the Cabinet meeting, but what I want to say against what has been advanced by the Leader of the Opposition is that we are attempting to restore  proper  parliamentary usage, which after all fell into great disrepute under the previous Government. Parliamentary usage suggests that the only place in which the Opposition can challenge a government is on the floor of the House of Representatives by a vote. It can pass in the Senate as many motions of no confidence in a Minister as it likes, and they matter not a jot. The Government believes in a doctrine known as collective responsibility of Cabinet - something which, I repeat, was honoured in the breach more than in the observance in the last several months of the previous Government. But if the Opposition wanted to move a motion of no confidence in the Government or in the conduct of a particular Minister the place to do so was in this House. The Opposition chose not to do this. 
When I hear all the bleating about the taking away of question time and recall how futile and ineffective question time has been in the hands of the Opposition, I do not think we have yielded very much. All the weekend I heard on television and radio and read in the Press about all that the right honourable gentleman was going to do when the House met on Tuesday. He seems to have been, as usual, a bit slow on the draw and we have got in first. I think honourable members opposite will find that so long as they put their confidence in the political strategy of the right honourable gentleman they will be beaten more often than they will win. What is wrong in voting as we want to or putting to a vote the question that this side of the House has confidence in the AttorneyGeneral and the way in which he has handled things? Do honourable members opposite want to put it in the negative sense - that they have no confidence in the Attorney-General? 
I know what the issue is. 
I am not prevaricating. You are prevaricating when you try to camouflage this as anything but sheer political expediency. When the Opposition resorts to sheer political expediency, as it has done, it cannot expect that occasionally there will not be sheer political retaliation. Surely to goodness this is what this place is about. 
Opposition members - Political expediency. 
I did not say that. I said sheer political retaliation'. What the Opposition has done is try to elevate into a monster that place upstairs, and the monstrosity is allowed to continue because it is not a place that had to go to election in December. The Opposition can only win there because it takes to its side there a party that has no political representation whatever in this House. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read a  second  time. 
This is a Bill to amend several aspects of the income tax law. Its main proposals are designed to curtail widespread misuse of some features of the law and so to ensure that proper effect is given to the policy underlying provisions intended to provide concessions for particular purposes. Much of the Bill is taken up with measures relating to the concessional deductions for life insurance premiums and superannuation contributions and to provisions concerned with company losses and bad debts and with dividend distributions by private companies. 
A concessional deduction of up to $1,200 a year is allowable to a person for amounts paid as life insurance premiums or as personal contributions to a superannuation fund. This concession is provided to encourage a person to make financial provision for his own retirement, or for his dependants when he dies and one of course could add 'her dependants', if it is a female. For some time however, it has been exploited for very different purposes. Practices have grown up that have nothing at all to do with the objectives underlying the concession; they are simply arrangements adopted by people who are in a position to do so to avoid the payment of tax which ought to be paid. The most widely used arrangements take advantage of the fact that an insurance policy in force for a relatively short time may be surrendered for an amount close to the sum of the premiums paid on it. Many policies are taken out solely to secure the tax deduction and are surrendered at the earliest practicable time.In effect the person concerned gets a tax deduction for premiums which to a large extent are received back within a short time. These arrangements do not remotely accord with the policy underlying the concession. Another source of tax saving which is quite out of step with the policy objectives is the use of short term endowment policies. 
I foreshadowed this feature of the amendments proposed in this Bill in a public statement I made on 29th December 1972. In broad terms, the amendments will change the law so that, with some exceptions, a deduction will not be available for premiums on a policy which provides for benefits (other than death benefits) to be paid within 10 years after the issue of the policy. Other countries - notably New Zealand and the United Kingdom - have adopted already this basic criterion for these deductions. 
The proposed restrictions on deductions for premiums on short term policies could, however, be got around by the early surrender of whole-of-life or long term policies. As a safeguard against this the Bill provides that, where a policy in force for less than 10 years lapses or is surrendered, the Commissioner of Taxation will be authorised to disallow deductions for premiums on the policy paid within 5 years immediately prior to the surrender or lapse. Single premiums will be notionally spread over the life of the policy for this purpose. It is proposed, however, that there be no disallowance where it is demonstrated that a policy is discontinued because of serious financial difficulties and had not been taken out as a tax avoidance scheme. The proposed amendments will not affect deductions for contributions to superannuation funds in respect of life insurance policies, or whatever term, taken out by the trustees of a fund to provide retirement benefits for members. Should any such policy be assigned to a member who leaves a fund because of premature retirement, deductions for future premiums paid on the policy by the ex-member will not be affected. In addition the amendments will not apply to premiums on what is known as 'term' insurance in respect of which there is no surrender value. 
The Government received representations that an exception from the 10-year rule should also be made for short term endowment policies that are taken out independently of superannuation funds by people who are within 10 years of the common retiring ages of 65 years for men and 60 years for women. The Government decided, however, that it would be more in harmony with the general policies of the tax law to meet the needs of these people through the exception for policies issued to trustees of superannuation funds. Public superannuation funds exist which are able to provide for the retirement needs of these older people. 
In respect of payments to superannuation funds, the Bill proposes that deductions be limited to payments to funds the income of which presently is accorded either exemption or special treatment under the income tax law. Such funds include all traditional employer-employee funds and funds catering for people who are self employed or are employees unable to benefit, or benefit adequately, through an employer sponsored fund. The purpose of this is to put an end to schemes that set out to obtain tax deductions for contributions to what are in reality no more than outright savings or investment funds. As I announced on 29th December, the amendments are to apply in respect of premiums on policies taken out on or after 1st January 1973 and contributions made to superannuation funds on or after that date. 
I turn now to measures contained in the Bill which are directed against familiar tax avoidance practices involving the use by profitable enterprises of companies that are no more than shells but that can provide very valuable tax benefits when profitable business is put their way. Two of these tax benefits accrue from setting off against current income deductions for past year losses, or for debts that have long been bad but have not been written off by the acquired company. A third type of benefit may be that accruing from the use of a past distribution of dividends made by an acquired private company - that has been stripped of all its assets in a dividend stripping operation - as a means of avoiding the requirement that an appropriate proportion of the income of a private company that is active and profitable be distributed to, and taxed in the hands of, the shareholders. 
In 1964 and 1965 the Parliament moved against the trafficking in companies with accumulated losses. The provisions we agreed to then have been applied with some success but it is apparent that they need strengthening in some respects. This the Bill is to do. It will also apply the central principles of the 1964- 65 legislation to the acquisition, through the purchase of shares in companies, of deductions for bad debts and of an entitlement to have earlier excess dividend distributions offset against current distributable income of private companies. The central principles are simple. For a company to obtain these tax benefits, there is required to be a real and substantial identity between its beneficial ownership when the losses or debts were incurred, or the excess distributions were made, and  iti  current beneficial ownership. Alternatively, if there is not that identity, the company must currently be carrying on the same business as it was when the change in shareholder! occurred. 
The principles are simple, but it does nol follow that the legislation expressing and enforcing them can also be simple. The Bill ii voluminous. One must apologise in some respects for the voluminous Bill and also for the rather heavy compendium known as the Explanatory Memorandum' which is associated with it. It runs to some 55 pages of fairly closely typed material. There is no alternative. When clever lawyers outside conspire, clever legislators inside must also act. I repeat that the Bill is voluminous. This is accounted for to some extent by 2 practical factors - firstly, the necessity to re-enact existing provisions and, secondly, the unavoidability, from the draftsman's viewpoint, of repeating in relation to each subject - losses, bad debts and excess distributions - legislative principles common to each. But, also, many peripheral matters of a technical and transitional nature have had to be catered for in the drafting and, in this age of enthusiastic and ingenious tax avoidance, many safeguards of the central principles have had to be provided. It is no use, for instance, having legislation requiring continuity of beneficial ownership in a company, if it leaves open arrangements under which the purchasers of shares in the company need not be concerned about any continuity of the old ownership because the old shareholders can easily be kept from receiving any benefit from the company's current activities. The Bill proposes safeguards against arrangements of this kind and generally is designed to make clear the legislative intention that acquisitions of company shells for tax benefits will not bring forth those benefits. 
In 1964 the Parliament considered a 40 per cent continuity of shareholding would be a reasonable criterion to apply. Experience has shown that anything less than a continuity of a controlling interest, that is, more than 50 per cent, is unlikely to be effective. So that is what the Bill proposes. Under the existing law, a company is required to satisfy the commissioner as to a 40 per cent continuity of shareholding. Under the amended law this will move up to a percentage in excess of 50. Provisions adopted by the Parliament in 1965 left undisturbed the availability of deductions for company losses when the same business is carried on at all relevant times. These provisions are being re-enacted with no substantial change. They will apply in respect of bad debt and excess distribution acquisitions as well as in the company loss situation. 
The new code we propose will, in general, apply in assessments on company income of the current year 1972-73. An important exception is that the 40 per cent test for continuity of shareholdings will apply in assessments for that year in respect of deductions for past year losses and bad debts. The larger percentage, more than 50, will not take over until 1973-74. The amendments relating to excess distributions of companies will, in general, apply for dividends relating to income of the year ended 30th June 1972 but again the 40 per cent test will apply for that year and the larger percentage will not take over until the succeeding year. The Government considers it reasonable to apply the amended provisions in this way. Many intending purchasers of tax losses, bad debts and excess distributions have made saving arrangements to the effect that they are to pay the vendors of the company shells only for the amounts for which the purchasers secure allowances under the taxation law. Apart from this, the loss of revenue is most significant and the Government considers it only right that it should be stopped with as little delay as possible. 
There are some other matters dealt with in the Bill and I shall refer briefly to them. An apparent technical deficiency in the provisions governing the taxing of dividends is being remedied by the Bill so that an exempting provision clearly applies in respect of dividends out of profits from gold mining, but not other types of mining, in Papua New Guinea. The Bill will provide for an outright deduction to be allowed in the year of incurrence for expenditure on converting income producing plant for use under the metric system. We are proposing the same now in this respect as was done in 1965 in relation to conversion of plant for use with the dollar currency. 
There are some minor amendments relating to the communication by the Commissioner of Taxation of information necessary for the administration of the Commonwealth employees compensation provisions and scholarships schemes. There is also a technical amendment to a transitional measure concerning contracts between mining companies and the Commonwealth or a State Government which, with the approval of the relevant government, have been assigned to a third party. We are taking this opportunity to give effect to the Government's announced intention to extend the export market development allowance for another year, until 30th June 1974. Extension of other aspects of the export incentive schemes will be dealt with in other legislation. 
Finally, formal amendments reflecting current drafting practices are proposed. These will not affect the operation of the law. A memorandum providing detailed explanations of technical aspects of the Bill is being made available to honourable members and I do not propose to speak at any greater length at this stage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for expenditure in the current financial year for which provision was not made in the Appropriation Acts (Nos 1 and 3) 1972-73. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $129,427,000. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Acts (Nos 1 and 3) 1972-73 by $129,427,000. For a variety of reasons, it is expected that savings of about $98. 2m will be available in existing appropriations to offset the additional appropriations contained in Appropriation Act (No. 3) 1972-73 and those now proposed. 
Honourable members will be aware that as a matter of law, moneys appropriated by Parliament for specific purposes may only be used for those purposes and expected savings under certain appropriations cannot be utilised as an offset in the sense that the total new appropriations sought can be reduced to a net figure in this Bill. Thus I am seeking parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in the divisions, sub-divisions and items set out in the Schedule to the Bill. To the extent that an item of any annual appropriation is unexpended the appropriation lapses at 30th June in accordance with section 36 of the Audit Act 1901-1969. 
For the information of honourable members a separate document has been provided listing the estimated savings in existing annual appropriations. I emphasise that these are estimated savings. It is not intended to present an accurate prediction of the final expenditure under those appropriations, nor is it intended to imply that there will be no savings under other appropriations. The information is provided by way of background to honourable members' consideration of the additional amounts now being sought. The various items included in this Bill can be considered in detail in Committee and I propose at this stage to refer only to some of the major provisions. 
The additional requirement for departmental salaries is $15.4m and provides for increases in salaries arising from arbitration determinations, reclassification of offices and additional staff positions created since the original Estimates were approved. In accordance with established practice no provision was made in the Budget for salary or wage increases. The amount needed to meet salary increases resulting from arbitration determinations that have become effective this financial year is approximately $ 14.2m. Further appropriations totalling $ 15.7m are required for departmental administrative expenses including $2m for overseas representation; $3.1m for the Department of Services and Property including $1.7m for rents; $1.7m for the Commonwealth Taxation Office including $0.8m for services rendered by the Australian Post Office and by the State government; and $3. 6m for the Department of Works including $2m for fees of private architects and other consultants. The balance is made up of a considerable number of appropriations each of which is less than $500,000. 
Additional appropriations amounting to $4 1.4m required for departmental other services include $0.7m for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; $8.6m for the Department of Education of which $5m has been provided for Commonwealth scholarship schemes to cover increases in university fees and the extension of the Aboriginal secondary grants scheme to all children of Aboriginal descent attending secondary schools and classes from the beginning of 1973; $2.5m for education services in the Australian Capital Territory and $0.7m for educational services in the Northern Territory; $3m for the Department of External Territories to cover special assistance to facilitate the transfer of functions to the Papua New Guinea Administration, emergency assistance to alleviate food shortages in the Papua New Guinea highlands and salary increases for overseas officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service; $5.9m for Colombo Plan and other aid; $2.8m for broadcasting and television services; $1.2m for the final payment of compensation to sulphuric acid and pyrites producers following the termination of bounty payments; $11. 7m for war service pensions, allowances and other benefits to cover increased rates effective from December 1972; $l.lm for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for expenditures under the Science and Industry Research 
Act; $0.5m for grants to eligible organisations under the Aged Persons Hostels Act; $0.9m for the Commonwealth Taxation Office to cover remission of taxes and fines in special circumstances; and Sl.lm for expenditure under the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Act. The balance is made up of a number of appropriations each of which is less than $500,000. 
Further appropriations totalling $57m are sought for the Defence Services. Of this amount $33. 5m is required for Service pay increases following implementation of the Woodward Committee's recommendations and the Government's decision on re-engagement bonus payments. Increased civilian salary and wage awards require an additional $5.9m. A further $6.9m is required to meet increases in general administrative and operational expenses; $3.1m for increases in the cost of refit, overhaul and repair of ships, aircraft plant and equipment, and $2.4m for accelerated deliveries of Air Force maintenance and servicing equipment and other items. An amount of $2. 6m is required for maintenance of production capacity in government factories and production development. Estimated savings in other Defence appropriations amount to some $51. 8m and are due mainly to slippages, cancellation and rephasing of a variety of equipment projects. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in 1972-73 amounting to $54,400,000 on various items relating to capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Act (No. 2) and Appropria tion Act (No. 4) 1972-73 by $54.4m. It is expected that savings of about $43. 4m will be available in other appropriations to offset the additional appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 4) 1972-73 and those now proposed, although as I explained in relation to the Appropriation Bill (No. 5), it is not possible to utilise such savings to offset additional expenditure under other appropriations. When introducing Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1972- 73 I informed the House that savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Act (No. 1) and Appropriation Act (No. 3) 1972-73 had been listed in an information paper for the benefit of honourable members. The information paper likewise contains details of savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Act (No. 2) and Appropriation Act (No. 4) 1972- 73. 
Of the $39.9m now sought for capital works and services the major requirements are $6m for loans under the Defence Service Homes Act to meet the increased loan limit and to reduce delays in meeting applications; $ 10.7m for buildings, works, plant and equipment at overseas posts including $7m for purchase of a new chancery site in Paris and SI. 6m for the purchase of land for a housing compound at Osaka; $14m for the purchase of pipe and associated equipment for the Moomba-Sydney gas pipeline; $0.6m for the acquisition of sites and buildings for various Commonwealth departments; $6m for the National Capital Development Commission primarily to meet additional commitments on current contracts arising from movements in wages and prices and additional housing on account of the resumption of the Melbourne to Canberra transfer program; and $0.7m for the Department of Works for construction projects. 
Additional appropriations of $4.4m are sought for payments to or for the States, including a grant of SI. 5m to the Queensland Government towards the construction of the Ross River Dam and $2. Om for the States to make loans to co-operative fruit canneries to enable accelerated payments to growers. Further appropriations of $10.2m are sought for departmental other services including S8m for assistance for children in isolated areas and $1.4m for tuition fees and living and travelling allowances under the Commonwealth Pre-School Teacher Scholarships Scheme. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
See (1). 
The Government becomes aware of foreign take-over proposals through notifications received from the parties to the take-overs, information available to Government departments or agencies, published information and information supplied by interested persons. 
, (5), (6) and (7) lt would not be appropriate to provide the names of the companies involved in all take-over proposals because in some cases the information is provided in confidence by the private parties concerned. 
Between 5th December 1972 and 9th March 1973, in the administration of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 67 take-over proposals came under notice. 
During the same period, the preliminary examination of 63 take-over proposals was completed, including some proposals which had been notified before 5th December 1972. Of these, the Government indicated that it had no indication to 49 proposals. These proposals included a number which were found on examination not to lead to loss of Australian control and a number which related to take-overs of companies with assets of less than $lm and not involving special considerations. Proposals involving listed companies to which no objections were raised were as follows: 
Metro Industries Ltd by The Crown Agents; 
International Oils Exploration N.L. by Union Oil Development Corp.; 
City Financial and General Investment Co. Ltd by Vavasseur Pacific Ltd; 
Investment and Merchant Finance Corp. Ltd by The Royal Bank of Canada and the National Bank of Detroit; 
Carpet Manufacturers Ltd by Kinnears Ropes (Aust.) Ltd; 
Kay's Motor Maintenance Pty Ltd by Associated Securities Ltd; 
French Perfumery International Ltd by Juvena Holding Ltd 
In the other 14 cases the preliminary examination of which was completed, the Government decided that they should be deferred for further consideration and interim orders were issued for that purpose. The interim orders which were published at the time the decisions were taken, related to acquisitions of shares in the following companies: 
M.B. John and Hattersley Ltd by PeglerHattersley Ltd; 
K.D.H. Pty Ltd by M.E.P.C. Australia Ltd; 
Samuel Seymour Investments Pty Ltd by Security Mills Pty Ltd; 
The Trevor Group of Companies by Babcock Australia Holdings Ltd; 
Baillieu Bowring Holdings Pty Ltd by C. T. Bowring (Australia) Pty Ltd; 
Warne Insurance Services Pty Ltd by R. B. Jones (Australia) Ltd; 
The Brickhouse Co. Pty Ltd by Westlyn Investments Ltd; 
Buchanan Borehole Collieries Pty Ltd by Mitsui &amp; Co. (Australia) Ltd; 
Muswellbrook Industries Ltd by Industrial Equity Ltd; 
Australian National Hotels Ltd by Messrs Ho and Fung; 
Minerals Mining and Metallurgy Ltd by Hochmetals Corp.; 
Barratt Paynes Ltd by Barratts Wood Green (Australia) Pty Ltd; 
M allen &amp; Co. Ltd by Reserves and Mining Investments Limited; 
Uranium Consolidated No Liability by Metals Miniere Ltd 
During the period 6 proposals were withdrawn before the completion of their preliminary examination. Another 4 proposals in respect of which interim orders had previously been issued were withdrawn before the completion of detailed investigation - namely, 
Watson Victor Holdings Ltd by Nicopal Pty 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">In answer to the honourable member's question, the Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following figures which are consistent with the receipts on General Government income and outlay account and amounts provided for Depreciation by Public authority trading enterprises, as shown in tables 12 and 41-45 of the forthcoming Australian National Accounts 1971-72. Separate figures on local authorities are consistent with table 4 of 'Public Authority Finance: State and local authorities 1971-72'. 
<para pgwide="yes">The honourable member is asked to note that the term 'Gross Domestic Product' is now used by the Commonwealth Statistician in place of 'Gross National Product'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) After the revaluation of the Australian dollar, the Government established an InterDepartmental Committee to consider the question of adjustment assistance for manufacturing industries. In broad terms, the impact of the revaluation of the Australian dollar upon the export sales of companies manufacturing for export, upon their costs if their exports are diminished as a result of that revaluation, and upon their economic viability in general have been the subject of study by that Committee. 
Currency Rate Changes: Effect on United Kingdom Pensioners  (Question  No.  230) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pensions paid to Australian residents by overseas Governments or other institutions, whether in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, are of course liable to change in terms of their Australian dollar value if the exchange rate between the currency of the country concerned and the Australian dollar changes. Such a change may occur either because of a change in the par value of the Australian dollar, such as was made on 23rd December last; or because of a change in the par value or central rate of the foreign currency concerned such as occurred in the case of the pound sterling when it was allowed to 'float' in June 1972; or because of a change in the relative valuation of the Australian dollar and the foreign currency concerned as a result of differing consequences for those currencies of action taken in the case of other major currencies, such as the devaluation of the United States dollar in February 1973. 
In these respects the effects on the remittances concerned are not different in kind from the effects on other payments due to Australian residents in foreign currencies. Thus, while the Government sympathises with those individuals whose pensions payable from overseas sources may have been reduced in terms of Australian currency as a result of exchange rate changes, it would not be appropriate for it to seek to offset by specific action such reductions. 1 should mention that, as a result of the recent exchange rate changes, some persons resident in Australia in receipt of a pension from the United Kingdom could have become eligible for an Australian Social Service pension for the first time and others could have qualified for an increased Social Services pension. 
Leptospirosis in Cattle  (Question No. 236) 
by leave - I have recently returned from a brief visit to Washington where I participated in discussions on reform of the international monetary system. These were discussions between finance ministers and treasurers of a representative group of countries known as the Committee of Twenty. This Committee was established in July 1972 by a resolution of the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund. The Committee is charged with the task of reporting to the Board of Governors on all aspects of reform of the international monetary system. Australia is one of the 20 countries which is a full member of the Committee. It has special significance for us as a group, limited in size, in which we can hear the views of others and express our own views on these matters. 
The decision to establish the Committee of Twenty had its origins in the currency crises of the late 1960s and early 1970s. In recent years these crises have increased in terms of both frequency and severity. This has raised doubts about the international monetary arrangements under which countries have been operating over the past quarter of a century. 
According to one view, the present Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund were drafted primarily to deal with the problems of the 1930s - world wide depressions and vast unemployment, widespread restrictions on trade and payments, declining levels of international trade, competitive exchange depreciations and a complete breakdown of international co-operation. These are not the basic problems of the 1970s. What we now need, according to this view, is something which helps us deal with the problems of the 1970s - world wide inflation, disequilibriating capital flows, competitive nonrevalutions and the break-down of the balance of payments adjustment process, in a world in which national economies are much more closely inter-related and inter-dependent in terms of trade and capital flows. 
However, according to another view, the break down in the balance of payments adjustment process is due as much to the failure of individual countries to observe the rules of the system, as to the system itself. In particular it is argued that the current instability is largely a by-product of the continuing United States balance of payments deficit - a deficit which reached the astronomical proportions of around $US30 billion in 1971. The United* States, it is said, should have taken earlier action to correct the deficit by slowing down internal inflation for example, by curbing capital outflow, by devaluing the United States dollar, or by some combination of these policies. Likewise the surplus countries operating within the existing Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund should have taken earlier action to check the growth in their reserves by curbing capital inflow, by revaluing their currencies, and so on. 
Probably there was some truth in both these points of view. More recently, however, developments in the international monetary situation have put a new slant on the discussions. One important fact is, of course, that the United States now has taken significant steps to correct its balance of payments deficit. In the first place the United States Government did take firm action domestically and this reduced its rate of inflation below that of nearly all major developed countries. 
Then there was a general re-alignment of currencies which occurred at the time of the Smithsonian Agreement at the end of 1971. At that time the United States agreed to devalue the dollar by approximately 8 per cent. At the same time some of the surplus countries including Germany, Japan, Belgium and the Netherlands revalued their currencies upwards. This realignment was a positive contribution by both deficit and surplus countries to the attainment of better international balance of payments equilibrium. 
However progress towards better balance was slow. The large United States deficit on current account continued, as had been expected, into 1972, But in addition there was no net reflow of short-term funds to the United States during 1972 as a whole. The floating of sterling in June 1972 cast some doubts on the viability of the new exchange rate pattern and by early 1973, with reserves still rising in Europe and Japan, there was a growing belief that some further realignment of exchange rates might be necessary. 
In January 1973 the Italians, who had been experiencing a capital outflow, introduced a 2-tier exchange rate system. Almost immediately the Swiss, who had been experiencing substantial capital inflows, decided to allow the Swiss franc to float. There then ensued what has come to be known in Europe as the ping-pong' effect, with capital bouncing over the border from Switzerland, which had taken new additional measures, to Germany and other European currencies, which had not. In the first 9 days of February 1973 the central banks of Europe and Japan absorbed no less than $US9 billion. The German central bank alone took in some $US6 billion. The exchange rates of most of the European currencies rose strongly in the market. It was then, on 12th February 1973, that the United States took a further decisive step by unilaterally devaluing the dollar another 10 per cent. At this time the Japanese authorities decided to allow the Japanese yen to float upwards in the market. 
There was a strong body of opinion to the effect that this February 1973 readjustment of exchange rates should have been sufficient, in the long term, to achieve the international balance of payments adjustment required, particularly if there was reasonable progress in reducing trade barriers as a result of the discussions due to begin in September under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. But the markets themselves did not reflect this optimism. Indeed, by the end of February 1973 speculative capital flows to Europe had again reached overwhelming proportions. In one day alone the German central bank took in no less than SUS2.7 billion. The Europeans and the Japanese closed their foreign exchange markets for roughly 2 weeks in the first half of March 1973. When the European markets did reopen on 19th March it was on the basis that they would no longer maintain the established margins against the US dollar. A number of the European countries agreed to maintain maximum exchange rate margins of 2.25 per cent against each other. Others, including the pound sterling and the Italian lira, continued to float independently. In other words the major European countries, collectively or individually, were floating in relation to the US dollar, as were the Canadian dollar and the Japanese yen. 
It was in the shadow of these events that the Committee of Twenty gathered in Washington for its second meeting on 26th and 27th March. It was no longer a question of considering in academic fashion what changes in the monetary system might be desirable. The fact was that the monetary system set out in the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund had, in some basic respects, been abandoned by the major countries. And yet it was important not to be unduly influenced by these measures, taken under pressure, in assessing the needs of the longer term future. On the whole I believe the Committee took a properly balanced view in this respect. A number of specific issues were touched upon by the Committee of Twenty at its March meeting and I briefly list some of them: 
There was the question of the extent to which the monetary system of the future should be based on stable but adjustable par values as set out in the present Articles of Agreement. The Committee was of the view that this should continue to be the case but it was also recognised that floating rates would provide a useful technique in particular situations. 
There was the question of disequilibrating capital flows. The more recent currency crises reinforced the general view that this was a most important area for future work. It was agreed that a study should be made of effective means of dealing with this problem both by controls to influence such flows and by arrangements to finance and offset them. 
There was the question of international liquidity. It was recognised that with the very large increase in short-term US dollar liabilities, international liquidity was running at very high levels. It was envisaged that the role of reserve currencies in the international monetary system should be reduced and that the special drawing right should become the principal reserve asset of any reformed system. This, it was generally held, would be a contribution to better international management of global liquidity. 
There was a general wish that effective convertibility of the United States dollar into other reserve assets should be restored. The United States had of course formally ceased to maintain convertibility of the US dollar into gold and other assets as from 15th August 1971. This led to suggestions for what is technically called a 'reserve asset settlement' scheme. It implies that the United States should once again receive primary reserve assets if it is in surplus, and should lose them if it is in deficit. But before the United States could assume such a 'convertibility' obligation, it was suggested that excess' holdings of US dollars, and for that matter sterling, should in some way be funded. What this would mean in practical terms for Australia is that some part of our existing dollar and sterling balances would be set aside, or frozen, on terms as yet undisclosed. During the discussions in Washington, I made it quite clear that Australia could not support any such arrangement for dealing with the 'dollar overhang' problem which was not based on voluntary participation by the holders, for whom the dollars represented not an 'overhang' but national reserves. 
Then there was the question of the role of developing countries. The general view was that their special interests had to be borne in mind in any reformed system. This subject was not discussed in any detail at this meeting of the Committee, but will be taken up at a later date. 
Most important of all, however, there was the general recognition by the Committee of the need for a better working balance of payments adjustment process, and of the importance of effective domestic policies for this process. It was agreed that methods should be devised to ensure timely and effective balance of payments adjustments by both surplus and deficit countries. In this connection a technical group was appointed to consider a United States proposal that a system of 'objective indicators' be introduced to signal the need for balance of payments action by individual countries. On this issue of the balance of payments adjustment process I was able to point out, both in Washington and subsequently in New York, that Australia was one country which had not waited to be told by an international organisation, or by its trading partners, or by some system of objective indicators, what it needed to do. The action this Government took in December  1972  to revalue the Australian dollar and to check speculative capital inflow was taken in Australia's own national interest. But it was also exactly what would have been expected of it if the international balance of payments adjustment process is to work effectively. 
The Committee of Twenty has not fixed the date of its next meeting. This will be determined in the light of the progress made by its various sub-committees and technical groups. 
There is still a long way to go, as I see it, before a general consensus will emerge as to the monetary system which should apply in the future. However, notwithstanding some divergent points of view on various aspects of this matter, I think there are  2  basic points on which most countries would now agree. The first is that any monetary system of the future will need to pay due attention to the sovereignty of national governments. The second is that no new system, however well designed, will work unless the countries participating in it are prepared to co-operate in making it work. To that end there is general agreement that the role of the International Monetary Fund, as a forum for international co-operation in this matter, should be strengthened. I believe it is important, from Australia's point of view, that this should be so. 
We have an independent and growing economy, and we are jealous of our national sovereignty. At the same time we are living in a world where commercial and financial links between countries are growing. It is a world where some countries in their own interests are merging into regional blocs. If we are to maintain our independence, and if we are to maintain our economic advancement, we need a sound international monetary system which essentially provides for a multilateral rather than a regional or bilateral approach to world financial arrangements. That was one of the prime considerations for our giving our support to the establishment of the International Monetary Fund after World War II. That consideration is equally valid today. 
I have given this brief account of some of the background to, and main issues surround ing, the recent meeting of the Committee of Twenty in order to inform the House of progress on these matters. For the information of honourable members, I also present the communique issued by this meeting of the Committee of Twenty, together with a glossary of terms, which the Treasury has prepared for me, and which I have found of assistance in these financial discussions. I seek leave to have those  2  documents incorporated in Hansard. 
I present the following paper: 
International Monetary System - Ministerial Statement, 12th April 1973.--  and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 I move: 
That the modification of the Senate be agreed to. 
I do this for reasons that I now want to explain. We are so serious that this committee should be established that we do not want any hindrance to it. When the measure was before the House in its original form our argument about not having what are called public sector items considered was that public sector items are subject to parliamentary scrutiny in any case. After all, one cannot alter postal or telephone charges in this House unless they are subject to some degree of public examination. The same applies in the States. For example, the tariffs of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria or the Gas and Fuel Corporation of Victoria cannot be altered unless the proposals come before the State Parliament. It is a combination of the Opposition parties and the Democratic Labor Party in the Senate which has resulted in these amendments and the Government bows to the inevitable on occasions. The Government is serious about this matter. It believes that there is wide and very considerable concern about prices generally and something has to be done. This committee on prices is part of that mechanism and rather than hinder the passage of the motion the Government is prepared to accede to the request of the Senate. 
The second matter that is requested by the Senate is that a member of the Australian Country Party in the Senate be added to the Committee. The Government has no objection to that. It alters the number on the Committee from 10 to 11 members and makes the representation from this House 6 and from the other place 5, and will give the Government 6 members to 5 from the other parties. I hope it is accepted that we are yielding slightly on our position. The Government takes the matter so seriously that it does not want to haggle again. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  moved in this place the same amendment as we are now accepting from the Senate, namely, that the public sector-- 
He was aware of it in any case. What the Government is seeking to do is look at the price makers who are not at the moment subject to any kind of public scrutiny. That was the purpose of the Committee. If the Opposition chooses to suggest that public pricing which, after all, is public pricing and subject to certain kinds of scrutiny already, should be included in the terms of reference of the Committee, the Government will yield on the point of order to let the Committee be established because it regards the Committee as a central part of a definitive attack on prices. I do not want to dwell any more upon it. The Government regards this Committee as one of 3 parts of what it regards as the central mechanism for grappling with this very important problem. We have yet to bring in legislation in respect of the proposed prices justification tribunal. This joint committee on prices is to be a sounding board between the public and the Parliament and may result in action being taken following its recommendations. 
I regard as the third part of the central mechanism the strengthening of consumer protection arrangements through co-operation between the States and Commonwealth. As honourable members know, there is to be a meeting of the State Premiers and the Federal Government about this central problem. It was originally called for 4th May but I understand that because of certain technical difficulties in the States it is now to be held a week later. The Government is prepared to accept the amendment moved in the Senate in order that there will be no hindrance to the establishment of this Committee. We are prepared to accept the second part of the request that there be an additional member from the Country Party in the Senate appointed to the Committee. This will mean that the constitution of the Committee will be 11 members instead of 10 with 6 from this House and 5 from the Senate. The Government will have 6 members on the Committee' and the Opposition will have 5. I hope that this again will be accepted as evidence of the Government's bona fides in taking this matter very seriously. It does not want politics; it wants action. 
I am not aware of the precise action of the firm referred to by the honourable member for Blaxland but I am greatly concerned about the rising interest rates in the community because they have very serious repercussions not only on prices but also, in particular, on those who want to purchase their own homes. I have called for information from the Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Australia about the various forms of credit providers. As I have stressed in this place before, those who lend money certainly cannot lend it at a lower rate of interest than that at which they borrowed it. Any device that forces the borrowing rate up has adverse effects at the other end. This is a very serious problem to grapple with. I have said over and over again that if it is thought wise that there should be controls upon the activities of banks and insurance companies it does not seem unwise that some kind of regu latory provisions should be imposed upon other providers of credit. The precise mechanisms for doing this can lead to differences of opinion but the honourable member can be assured that these matters are under consideration. I hope in the next few weeks to be able to make statements on this and allied measures. Unfortunately, sometimes when we alter the law, particularly as it applies in the income tax field, to give a concession, often for quite genuine reasons, we find a curious combination of clever legal and financial minds trying to pervert what was a genuine action. This is why it is not always easy to close loopholes without endangering some genuine measures. I thank the honourable member for his question and will call for a report about the matter he raised. Perhaps at a later date I will be able to make a more general statement about this whole area. 
This matter was raised a day or two ago at the meeting of the Asian Development Bank from which I have just returned. It was pointed out at that meeting - I might say that the previous Government pursued the policy - that it has not been the custom for Australia to allow a floating in Australia by foreign associations of what can best be described as public bonds. It may well be that in the light of changed circumstances consideration could be given to changing that policy. 
The countries associated with the Asian Development Bank met to consider the augmenting of capital funds and Australia has agreed to that proposal. Basically, I believe that the problem of the Bank is not the shortage of funds so much as the lack, on the part of those who want to use the funds that are available, of technical expertise to put them to fruitful use. There is still a long period between the time when approval is given to a project and the time that the project takes for fulfilment. That seems to me to be the greatest problem at the moment in international aid arrangements, whether they are by the Asian Development Bank or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We have to work out better techniques for meeting what are real needs and matching them with the capacity of other people through technical, material, managerial and other assistance to put programs into action. However I am prepared to look at the matter to which the honourable member has referred. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responses to inquiries directed to the States have shown that information on the matters raised in the question is not available from all States on consistent bases, and some of it is not available at all. I shall forward to the honourable member information that has been obtained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See part (2) of my answer to his question No. 170 (Hansard, 27th March 1973, page 762). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, the Fund has not been invested in debentures, shares and stocks listed on Australian stock exchanges; however, regulations to permit investment in debentures under the terms of sub-sections (2), (4) and (5) of Section 12 of the Superannuation Act have recently been made. 
In accordance with Section 12, the moneys of the Fund may be invested by the Superannuation Board in the classes of investment shown below. The percentage of total funds invested in each class at 30th June 1972 is shown in column 2. 
and (4) The percentage growth of the Fund in each of the last 5 years is shown in the following table. There is no single measure of the rate of inflation; however, the movement in the Consumer Price Index in each of the last 5 years is shown in column 2 of the table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I note that in announcing the proposal the Chancellor of the Exchequer referred to 'certain safeguards1 and preceded the announcement by referring to a possible inheritance tax. 
This particular proposal has not been studied but iti nature is well understood. 
See reply to (2). 
The Treasury and the Taxation Office will be making a submission on estate duty to the Taxation Review Committee which will analyse, among other things, proposals of the sort alluded to. 
A decision to vary estate duty provisions along the lines indicated has not been made and it would not be appropriate for me to speculate about the possibility of it being made at some future time. Should such a decision be made it would be announced in the appropriate way. 
The Prime Minister has for quite a long time now suggested the need better to integrate local government into the financial resources of Australia. Local government authorities have substantial functions. They have inadequate finance. Two proposals are currently under consideration. One is that there should be separate representation of local governing authorities at Austraiian Loan Council meetings. Whether it will be possible to achieve that at the next meeting, which is only one month off, is doubtful. The other proposal under consideration is an amendment of the Commonwealth Grants Commission legislation. The Grants Commission was set up under section 96 of the Constitution to make grants to the States and these grants can be made fairly freely. It is proposed that local authorities will be integrated into loan considerations. It is hoped to have the necessary amendments in this House as soon as possible but there are some difficulties about it. I simply repeat that we believe that it is a fundamental change that will shift local governing authorities from being the poor relations in the Federal system into playing a vital part and getting a better equation of finance and function in the process. We hope that a Grants Commission Bill will be introduced into this House next week and it will afford a fuller opportunity to explain the potentialities of the situation. 
1 suggest that this question more appropriately resides in the hands of my colleague the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation. I suggest that he might reply to the question. 
I assure the questioner that the morale of the Treasury is very high. I would say also in answer to some people who try to make divisions where divisions do not exist- 
My colleague, the honourable member for Hindmarsh, is known for his mastery of satire but that is not a division to which I intended to refer. The division I intended to point to is that which would be created by some people who seem to think that the Treasury has views distinct from those of the Treasurer. When it comes to any public announcement the Treasury has no views distinct from the views of the Treasurer. That to my mind is the distinctive mark of ministerial responsibility. There have been examples in the past of a department running its Minister and that deserves the rather offensive description of bureaucracy. However, where the Minister acts responsibly on the sensible advice of his advisers, that is good, responsible government and I repeat a quip that I learned when I was a student of political science rather than a practitioner in the art: The expert should be on tap but not on top. 
As far as I am aware, apart from the Australian Capital Territory and the other territories of the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth has very little jurisdiction over land. I say this to those people who complain about high prices of land: The States could have done a lot more about land prices than they have chosen to do. I applaud the decision of the Queensland Government to restrict further foreign ownership of real estate in Queensland. I have already taken action, as far as lies within my jurisdiction, in prohibiting any further capital inflow into Australia from overseas to acquire real estate. I hope that some of the States will examine how far the trend has gone in their own States. Perhaps they could well follow Queensland's move. I have taken the steps I can take under the powers to regulate future entry into Australia of money merely to buy real estate. The large amount allowed in for this purpose, particularly in the last 2 or 3 years, was one of the greatest aggravating sources of inflation in Australia. At least we have chopped off that flow of money in the future. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Superannuation Act 1922-71 to provide for annual increases in certain pensions payable under the Act. It gives effect to the recommendations made by Professor A. H. Pollard who was asked to report to the Government on the methods available for adjusting Commonwealth Superannuation Fund and similar type pensions. Honourable members will be aware that the report was tabled in the House by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 10th April 1973. As Professor Pollard stated in his report, the aim of employers in providing superannuation schemes is not only to give protection but also to give peace of mind or to free the employee from the ever present fear that a long retirement might bring severe financial problems in its latter years. Professor Pollard also stated that the necessary criteria for pension adjustments, if superannuation schemes are to achieve that aim, are that adjustments should take place automatically, that they should maintain the purchasing power of the pension and that they should be made frequently. In examining possible alternative methods of adjustment, Professor Pollard considered the notional salary method of adjustment that had hitherto been adopted on an ad hoc basis. He observed that the notional salary method has a number of disadvantages in its operation and that it performs more roles than merely adjusting pensions in changing economic circumstances because it adjusts for salary increases not received before retirement began and for changes made to the rules of the scheme. To the extent that the notional salary method effects these other changes, it exceeds its role as an adjuster for price and productivity increases. He also noted that it acts quite inequitably between different groups. 
Professor Pollard also gave consideration to adjustments by growth in average weekly earnings. He took the view that those figures include overtime, shift work payments and like allowances which are not appropriate when considering pension adjustment. He also referred to the fact that Commonwealth Service salaries have, on average, increased at slightly below the rate of increase in average weekly earnings over recent years and that, in these circumstances, pensioners would receive larger proportionate increases in their incomes than public servants still in the work force if average weekly earnings were to be used. Like the notional salary method it could provide increases higher than those represented by price and productivity increases. Other methods were also examined but Professor Pollard concluded that automatic annual adjustments of the Commonwealth share of pension by 1.4 times the consumer price index was the most appropriate formula.  His  formula is designed to provide a greater share of productivity increases when inflation is high and adjustments are needed, and a lesser share when there is little inflation. The adoption of his proposal will result in the pensioner receiving the guarantee that the purchasing power of his full pension is more than maintained. The Bill proposes that the Commonwealth share of the pension being paid to ex-contributors or their widows, including the full share relating to noncontributory units of pension, be adjusted automatically each year on the first pension pay day in each July. The adjustment will be by a percentage - to the nearest one-tenth of one per cent - equal to 1.4 times the percentage by which the immediately preceding March quarter consumer price index - 6 capital cities - exceeds that index for the March quarter of the previous year, with the proviso that the percentage by which pensions are increased should not exceed the percentage increase in the estimates of average weekly earnings, seasonally adjusted, for the corresponding period. Where the period between the date of retirement and 1st July is less than one year, the percentage will be reduced in the proportion that that period, taken to the nearest month, bears to one year. 
The Bill does not require pensions to be reduced in the event that the index moves downwards - a blessed thought. Increases will be paid notwithstanding that the percentage increase in some years may be small. The first adjustment will be made on 5th July next. Because no increase has been granted since 1st October 1971, that increase will be related to the movements in the index between the June 1971 quarter and the March 1973 quarter. The proportionate reduction, however, will be related to the 21 months between 1st October 1971 and 30th June 1973. We cannot be certain at this stage, pending the publication of the estimate of the average weekly earnings rate for March 1973, that the proviso to which I have earlier referred will not apply to the adjustment this year. If it does not apply, those in receipt of a pension at 1st October 1971 will receive an increase of 15.8 per cent in the Commonwealth share of the pension then being paid. The estimated cost of the increase on this basis is $8.4m for the financial year 1973-74. 
Examples of the increases that would result are: A telecommunications technician whose pension on retirement at 1st September 1971 was $2,925, made up of 25 contributory units and 10 non-contributory units, would receive an increase in his pension of $359.45 per annum; that is 15.8 per cent of $2,275, which is the Commonwealth element of his pension. A clerk class 4 whose pensions on retirement at 10th October 1972 was $4,342, made up of 42 contributory units and 8 noncontributory units, would receive an increase in his pension of $220.07 per annum; that is, nine twenty-firsts of 15.8 per cent, which is the Commonwealth element of his pension. 
As on previous occasions, a widow will receive the appropriate proportion, five-eighths or one-half as the case may be, of the increase that her husband would have received had he been alive and in receipt of a pension on 30th June 1973. Certain orphans will also receive increased pensions. The position of orphans and children, however, is under further consideration in the comprehensive review of the present superannuation scheme currently being undertaken by my Department. Other matters referred to in Professor Pollard's report, such as the investment powers of the Fund, period of actuarial investigations, etc., are also being examined. I hope shortly to table the results of the review for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 

I move: 
That  the Bill be  now read a second  time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to the provision of a contractual guarantee by the Australian Government for an overseas borrowing by Papua New Guinea in foreign currencies not exceeding the equivalent of- $US20m or $A14.3m. The proceeds of the loan will be used by the Government of Papua New Guinea to finance public works and services. Legislation to authorise the borrowing has already been passed by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly. The borrowing will be the first loan raised by Papua New Guinea on international capital markets, although this is not the first time Parliament has been asked to approve the provision of contractual guarantees for overseas borrowings by Papua New Guinea. Parliament has on a number of previous occasions approved such guarantees by the Australiangovernment in respect of loans to Papua New Guinea from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development Bank. All borrowings by Papua New Guinea internally or on the Australian Market, of course carry a statutory guarantee by the Australian Government by virtue of section 75a of the Papua New Guinea Act. 
It is expected that arrangements for the borrowing for which this Bill provides a guarantee, will be concluded before the end of this financial year. One of the loan possibilities currently being investigated by the Papua New Guinea Government is a public bond issue denominated in Deutschemarks. Such an issue would be underwritten by an international syndicate of banking and financial institutions, which makes it necessary to seek parliamentary approval for the provision of the guarantee in advance of the time the issue is actually negotiated. A legal opinion by the Secretary to the Attorney-General's Department, to the effect that the legal pre-requisites for the provision of the guarantee have been fulfilled, will need to be furnished to the underwriters immediately the loan documents have been signed and before the proceeds of the borrowing are paid over. This is normally done about 7 days after the signing of the underwriting agreement. There would, therefore, be insufficient time to seek parliamentary approval for the guarantee after the loan agreement has been signed, as has been the normal practice with guarantees for loans to Papua New Guinea by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development Bank. 
The form of guarantee that is customarily required in International capital markets is similar to those that have been given to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to the Asian Development Bank in respect of borrowings by Papua New Guinea from those institutions. The borrower and the guarantor would also both be required to give customary undertakings to the effect that interest payments and repayment of the loan would be made without deduction for taxes and would also be free of exchange control restrictions. The Bill accordingly provides for such undertakings to be given. 
The Bill is purposely couched in general terms in respect of the currency and the precise form of the proposed borrowing so as not to restrict Papua New Guinea's choice as to the particular overseas market in which it finally decided to arrange the loan. In present circumstances, it seems probable that the cost of an overseas borrowing by Papua New Guinea will not differ greatly from the cost of a borrowing for a comparable term from institutional sources in Australia. The Papua New Guinea Government wishes to undertake an overseas borrowing as soon as possible in order that it may establish a favourable standing in international capital markets before it becomes independent, as this could enhance its borrowing prospects thereafter. A contractual guarantee by the Australian Government for such a borrowing should ensure the success of this first issue and will materially assist Papua New Guinea in furthering this longer term objective. I therefore commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
In replying to the honourable gentleman's question I would like first to give some factual information. The Australian National Line instructs its insurance brokers to negotiate the most favourable rate with underwriters when seeking hull insurance on behalf of its fleet. Hull insurance is sometimes rather picturesquely described by my Leader as insurance of bottoms. At the same time, the ANL stipulates to its brokers that they should approach Australian companies involved in marine risks with a view to the acceptance of proportion of the risk in Australia. The Line has indicated that it is conscious of the need for local companies to participate in these insurance placements. However, at the same time it is aware that placement beyond a certain level with companies domiciled in Australia would lead only to reinsurance with parent or affiliate companies overseas. 
The insurance brokers of the Australian National Line have advised that the maximum amount of business is being placed locally. Local underwriters have taken approximately one-ninth of the total premiums payable by the Line in the current year. This is higher than it has been for a number of years previously. Local business is shared among 18 companies. I think this merely highlights inadequacy, in some respects, of the insurance markets in Australia. Recently I was able to stop the takeover by a foreign company of one of the few remaining underwriting companies in Aus tralia. I think it is time that those companies which claim to be the bearers of risk should think less of building safe office blocks and more of undertaking some of the risks that ought properly to be undertaken by insurance. I certainly will examine the propositions put by the honourable member, but I assure him that at present, even though technically the insurance might be accepted by an Australian company, in turn it is re-placed with one of the  overseas  operators because of the magnitude of the risk. The total value of the ANL fleet is about $125m. That seems to me to be quite within the competence of Australian insurers to undertake. I hope that more initiative will be shown by so called private enterprises in Australia. I have already indicated that there will be no further takeovers by outsiders of any existing Australian undertaking in the insurance field, and I am quite firm about that. 
1 must say that I find gratifying on the part of the Opposition, as expressed through its leader, concern now about both inflation and interest rates - a concern which to say the least there was very little evidence of in the last 3 years of office of the previous Government. 
I was asked a question but I seem to be getting the answers from the other side of the House. If honourable members opposite will be quiet I will endeavour to reply to the question. I say categorically that it is better for the community as a whole if interest rates are lower rather than higher. More people benefit because most are borrowers whereas the lenders tend to be a more select group. Nevertheless, one is confronted with an economy with a great deal of existing institutional and financial arrangements. 
The Leader of the Opposition should know what I mean but if he wants the information specifically, let me tell him that there are bodies in existence such as life insurance, companies and banks. There are other bodies in existence but nobody knows quite whether they are banks or something else. They are sometimes called hire purchase companies but now are more respectably called financial companies. There is another curious group, of whose movements we know very little in Australia, called merchant banks. All of them in one way or another are collectors of funds and disbursers of funds. They compete with each other and it is my responsibility as Treasurer, and with the Treasury and, if you like, the Reserve Bank of Australia also to see that there is a proper balance of the available sources of credit. There are some people, of course, who think that there is no limit to the ability to create, credit, but if we create too much there are unfortunate effects on the money claims that are already in existence. 
My task as Treasurer is to be able to divert more money into the public stream of spending and less into the private; in other words, to keep the proper balance. If nothing is done about interest rates outside the Commonwealth bond area it is very difficult in isolation to hold the bond rate at either the long or the short end. Sometimes - I am sure that former Ministers on the Opposition front bench and the Leader of the Opposition in particular, as a former Treasurer, would agree with me - one has to take decisions which one does not like to take. To some, extent that situation has been forced upon me in relation to the short term end of the market. I am no great lover of what is called the short term money market. I think it gives power and a great deal of glory to a few at the expense of the financial structure generally. However, that is a situation that I have inherited. I have indicated already that I believe that if we put controls for social purposes upon banks and insurance companies there is also a case for putting controls on other areas. If I find that I cannot hold the situation as I want to hold it by what are called the monetary forces operating in what is supposed to be a free market, though I think it is anything but free, I will have to take other courses, including perhaps direct measures, over some of those areas outside the ambit of credit control. I can assure the House that if I have to do it, I Will do it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In his Report on the Ninth Quinquennial Investigation of the Superannuation Fund covering the period of 5 years ending 30th June 1967, which was tabled in the Parliament on 8th March 1972, the Commonwealth Actuary recommended a conversion from the present unit purchase pension scheme to  a  new superannuation arrangement based on percentage of salary rates of contribution. This proposal by the Commonwealth Actuary, as well as a new scheme proposed by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and other suggestions for change received from employee and pensioner organisations and individuals, has been examined in die course of a full review of the present Superannuation scheme by my Department. The review will be completed shortly,. 
In the view of the Commonwealth Actuary there was a gross surplus of assets over liabilities of $14,779,000 in the Superannuation Fund as at 30th June 1967. The Actuary considered that this surplus should be applied to facilitate the transfer of existing pensioners and contributors to the new scheme that he proposed and to assist in meeting the cost of new benefits under that scheme. The Superannuation Board also did not favour a cash distribution of the surplus. The Board concluded that the balance of advantage to members would lie in applying the surplus assets at 30th June 1967 to the payment of selected additional benefits under the proposed percentage of salary contribution scheme or the present scheme. Decisions regarding the disposition of the surplus will be taken in the light of the outcome of the review of the present scheme. 
Trade Unions: Representations on Government-created Bodies (Question No. 456) 
My colleague the Minister for Housing and I have had considerable discussions about the problems connected with housing. He gave a key note address to a conference of master builders yesterday and indicated that this year we are faced with the situation of some builders telling us that costs of a completed house are likely to rise by 15 per cent. We propose to grapple with this wherever and whenever we can. We arc having substantial discussions about it. I have not yet considered the particular matters that the Leader of the Opposition has raised. All I can say at this stage is that his information is incorrect. 
All I can say at this stage is that his information is incorrect; that is, we do not propose to abolish State charges without consultation either with the States or with anyone else. 
No. We are looking at a number of means of reducing costs, but this one has not received any final consideration at all. 
The action has been taken after the most careful consideration. We have found that over a period of years those taxation concessions given to so-called private enterprise have cost revenue $250m. Currently, if continued, they would run at an annual rate of $50m. Of course, one has the predictable and often primitive reaction from those who claim to believe in both privacy and enterprise about cutting off what is nothing but a government subsidy. It is the belief of the Government that we can use public funds better perhaps for those purposes and for other purposes than to give it indiscriminately in this particular direction. The other unfortunate thing about it is that here again is an example of something ostensibly given to benefit genuine exploration being perverted by shrewdies in the game simply to dodge taxation. It is for that reason that the concessions have been taken away. We believe that a sum as vast as the amount involved can be better used for other public purposes, or perhaps the Government could even decide directly which areas of oil exploration and mineral research it will pursue for itself. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Treasury Committee on Superannuation. The Government has taken no stand on the report at this stage and would be interested in receiving comments from interested persons and organisations. Copies of the report will be made available to honourable members as soon as possible. 
I thank the honourable member for raising this matter because it gives me the chance to clarify what I did say. What I said on the 'Federal File' program recently - and what I had said in quite a number of other places previously - was that what I intend or hope to do iii the' Budget session is to alter the definition of 'income', or to include as income in a 12-months period any capita] gain that is realised in the course of that 12 months. What I mean by that is that if a piece of property, real or personal, is purchased and sold within the space of 12 months and an increment follows, I would regard that as income. Surely it cannot be regarded as a long-term investment. It is speculation rather than investment. That is not a capital gains tax. After all, what exists in the income tax provision at the moment is uncertainty as to that kind of transaction. What I want to do is to clarify that uncertainty beyond doubt. 
The question of a capital gains tax is a different proposition in respect of which so far the Government has not made any proposals. The matter is being considered within my Department and also by the Asprey Committee. A number of other parts of the world have capital gains taxation provisions under which, if an asset has been held and sold at a profit over a period of time, the increment is taxed at a rate less than the normal income tax rate. That kind of taxation is still being considered. If such a tax were to be introduced it would exempt entirely the first domestic dwelling of anybody, and I hope that that at least is understood. Sometimes I think that some of the so-called public forums, instead of illuminating a question, only obfuscate it further, and with all respect, I think that 'This Day Tonight' has a great habit of doing that. 
I repeat the position. A house other than a residence is cited as an example. If somebody buys a house and then sells the identical property within 12 months and makes an increment, I can gee no logical case why the increment should not be treated as income. On the other hand, let us take the example of a man who has a job in one State and an employer who might translate him suddenly to another State. He has bought a piece of property with the original intent of living in it but, shifting his domicile from one State to another, he would be foolish to retain the property. I think that in that case a discretion would apply. I repeat that the intent is to remove any doubt arising from the discretion which at present resides in the Commissioner, that is, that some transactions of the kind I have mentioned are taxed and some are not. The Commissioner has to exercise what is sometimes a very difficult option for him to exercise. 1 want to remove that as far as possible. I repeat the facts: If any piece of property, real or personal, bought and sold within a 12-months period has an increment attaching to it, that increment would be regarded as income, in the same way as any other income received in the 12 months is so regarded. Beyond that point, if it is held for more than 12 months it then becomes a question of capita] gains, which will be looked at separately but upon which so far we have not come to any final decision. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now  read a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the undertaking in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to establish a Prices Justification Tribunal. Before explaining the measures provided for in the Bill, J want to say something about the problem that these measures, among others, are designed to help overcome - the problem of inflation. For many years inflation has been a world-wide phenomenon. A large number of governments believe that it has now become the most formidable and most intractable problem of economic policy. 
In Australia we have experienced a marked quickening in the pace of inflation in the 1970s. Through the 1960s the consumer price index rose at an average annual rate of  2i  per cent, quickening somewhat in the latter half of the decade. In 1970-71, however the index rose by nearly 5 per cent and in 1971- 72 by nearly 7 per cent. Such high rates of inflation not only give rise to serious social problems but also encourage expectations that they will be maintained indefinitely. There was once a widespread view - it is still held by some - that inflation of prices and costs can be cured by creating a pool of unemployed. Even if this was true, the Government would unhesitatingly reject such an approach - the cure would be worse than the disease. 
I suggest that it is still held by some. If the honourable gentleman does not hold it my remarks are not directed at him. 
Later I may be able to accommodate the honourable member. In any case, there is no single solution - practicable or impractical, just or unjust - to the problem of inflation. In introducing this Bill the Government is certainly not pretending that some simple solution has been revealed to it. We have, it is true, learned a good deal from experiences elsewhere, and one of the most obvious lessons is that policies to contain inflation must be broad and multi-pronged. It is in this context that the present Bill must be viewed. It alone does not constitute a policy for the control of inflation, lt is but one element - a very important element - in a broader strategy. 
The Government has already taken, or has foreshadowed, a number of measures to counter inflationary pressures - the revaluation of the Australian dollar, restraints on overseas borrowings, domestic monetary measures including the call to statutory reserve deposits by the Reserve Bank, and the establishment of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. In the longer-term, policies in other fields - for example, on tariffs, restrictive trade practices and consumer protection - will also have a favourable impact. 
The Government appreciates fully, from experience here and in other countries, that a central and essential element of an overall or anti-inflationary strategy must be effective demand management. In the longer haul the responsibility obviously is to avoid the emergence of overall excess demand, and to aim by budgetary and credit policies to hold total expenditure within the capacity of the economy. I quote from the Government's submission in the recent national wage hearing:   . . in applying its demand management policies, the Government will aim to facilitate a lift in the level of economic activity sufficient to ensure maximum operating efficiency in industry but - and we stress - will not allow excessive pressures on overall resources to develop. 
What is the special contribution of the prices justification machinery? In no sense is the rationale of this Bill the wholesale replacement of the market by controls. On the contrary, it is in an important sense directed at improving the functioning of the market. 
There is in much pricing behaviour, particularly by large firms, a considerable element of discretion - scope to adjust prices without close and detailed discipline of the market. Competition policies, no matter how vigorously pursued, can make only a limited contribution to overcoming this, especially in the short-term. The exploitation by large firms of this scope for price adjustment can obviously play an important part in the mechanism of inflation. In being required to justify price increases large firms will be obliged to identify the range of discretion available to them, pay closer attention to the justification of prices and recognise fully the extent of their wider, public responsibilities. The prices justification procedures should increase awareness of the problem of inflation, both in the business community and the public at large. 
I turn now to the principal features of the Bill. One of its key features, of course, is the establishment of the Tribunal, which will consist of a  chairman  and such other numbers of members, either full or part time, as experience shows to be necessary. No qualifications for membership are specified. This will enable persons with a wide variety of experience and skills to be appointed to the Tribunal. Members will hold office for not less than one year, nor more than 5. They will, however, be eligible for re-appointment. The functions of the Tribunal are stated quite simply in clause 16 of the Bill. They are to inquire and report to the Minister, in any case where either the Tribunal or the Minister considers it desirable to do so, whether either existing or proposed prices for goods or services are justified and, if not, what lower prices would be justified. It will be noted that either the Tribunal itself or the Minister will have the power to initiate inquiries. 
The Bill lays down certain procedures for companies wishing to increase prices after the Act comes into effect. Broadly, any company to which the Act applies - I shall elaborate on this later - must notify the Tribunal of any proposed price increase or, in the case of new products or services, of the price it proposes to charge for those products or services. The Tribunal must decide, within 21 days, whether or not to hold an inquiry. If the Tribunal decides not to hold an inquiry, it will inform the company and the company will be free to go ahead and implement its proposed new price. The company will also be free to proceed 21 days after notifying the Tribunal, if by that time the Tribunal has not indicated that it proposes to hold an inquiry. If the Tribunal decides to hold an inquiry, the company is not free to implement its proposed new price until the Tribunal has completed its inquiry and reported to the Minister and the Minister has made the Tribunal's report public. The Tribunal must, however, complete its inquiry within 3 months, although that period can be extended if the company has failed to supply sufficient information to enable the inquiry to be completed, and the Minister must make the Tribunal's report public within 14 days of receiving it. On publication of the Tribunal's report, the company will decide whether to proceed with the proposed price increase, and must inform the Minister of its decision within 14 days of the report being published. The Minister will then make public, within a further 14 days, particulars of the company's decision. 
The above procedures will apply in the case of any proposed price increase by a company subject to the Act. However, for this purpose a price increase is defined as the supply of goods or services at a price higher than the highest price charged during the preceding month. This means that a company may reduce its prices for a period of up to a month, and then revert to its normal prices without having to comply with the notification procedure and face the prospect of an inquiry by the Tribunal. We have no wish to discourage price reductions, such as when retail stores hold clearance sales. 
The Tribunal's power to inquire and report will not be confined to proposed price increases subsequent to the date on which the scheme comes into effect. The Tribunal will have the power to inquire into prices being charged by a company at any time. This will enable the Tribunal to investigate cases where circumstances suggest price reductions should have occurred, but have not and, importantly, to inquire into and report on price increases implemented by companies prior to the measures coming into force in the hope that in this way they would avoid scrutiny. I would expect the Tribunal to devote particular attention to cases of the latter kind in the early period of its existence. 
The Tribunal will be required to give public notice of its intention to hold an inquiry, as well as notifying the company concerned. An inquiry might be held by the full Tribunal, or by a division of the Tribunal, which could consist of one or more members. Thus more than one inquiry might be proceeding at the one time. All inquiries will be held in public, with evidence taken in public on oath or affirmation, and submissions made in public. The Tribunal may permit evidence or submissions to be made in writing, but the contents of such statements will also be made public. However, if any party objects to evidence, either oral or written, being made in public, the Tribunal can take such evidence in private if it considers that justified. Any person or body of persons may apply to be made a party to an inquiry, but the Tribunal will have the power to grant or refuse such applications. Parties to an inquiry will be entitled to give evidence, call witnesses, and make submissions. The Act will apply only to companies or groups of companies whose receipts from the supply of goods or services, or both, exceed $20m in the preceding financial year, that is to say, in the last financial year prior to the time at which the company, or group, proposes to increase its prices. In 1970-71, there were over 350 companies in Australia with business receipts in excess of $20m, and their total business receipts aggregated more than $21,000m. The number of companies involved would now be greater, of course. The limit of $20m has been struck to ensure that the scheme will be administratively manageable, and yet bring under scrutiny prices charged by the major companies which are the 'price leaders' in the community and whose activities can have a significant impact on price levels generally. 
It will be apparent that the scheme provided for in this Bill is one of price justification, as distinct from a scheme of price control. Companies will be required to justify their prices and price increases in the eyes of the public. The emphasis will be on full public inquiries and reports by the Tribunal, and there will be reliance on the force of public opinion following publication of the Tribunal's reports. It will not be mandatory for companies to comply with the Tribunal's findings. We do not believe compulsion to be necessary. The major companies involved are, we feel sure, conscious of their corporate image and of the impact that their actions can have on the economy, and we would expect them to act responsibly and to have full regard to the Board's findings and the force of public opinion in deciding their actions. If our confidence in them in this respect turned out to be misplaced, we would of course consider the matter further. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate moneys to carry on the necessary normal annual services of the Government during the first 5 months of the financial year 1973-74. The total amount sought in this Bill is $1,556,348,000 comprising: 

<graphic href="083131197305096_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

These amounts do not, of course, include the requirements for expenditure under special appropriations for which standing parliamentary authority is available under the relevant legislation. 
The amounts included for salaries and payments in the nature of salary represent estimates of the payments which will be made at existing rates of pay and employment levels over the 11 pay days falling within the supply period. The amounts included for administrative expenses and other services are limited to commitments which departments will be required to meet in the supply period. A provision of $15m has been included for the payment of defence forces retirement benefits under the proposed revised procedures in legislation to be introduced during the current session of Parliament. An amount of $30m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on ordinary annual services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. 
This Bill also contains a special appropriation of an unspecified amount, subject to certain limitations, to cover such salary and wage increases as become payable after the Bill was prepared for which specific provision will not, of course, have been made. This is an alternative to substantially increasing the Advance to the Treasurer which in recent years has been called upon to provide substantial amounts to meet salary and wage increases. It is hoped that this special appropriation will become a permanent feature of future Supply Bills. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $404,973,000 for certain expenditures to carry on the necessary services of the Government for the first 5 months of 1973-74. The total amount sought comprises: 

<graphic href="083131197305096_44_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amounts sought for capital works and services are in general to meet continuing commitments. However, provision has been made for an appropriation of $54m for the purchase of pipe and associated equipment for the Moomba-Sydney gas pipeline. In addition an amount of $17,500,000 has been included for expenditure under the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Act 1972. 
The amount sought for payments to or for the States includes $2.1m to give effect to the Government's recent decision to provide emergency post-revaluation adjustment assistance to producers of export apples and pears and canning fruits. Three million dollars has been included for initial expenditure on the school dental scheme. Other amounts included for payments to or for the States are based on existing arrangements for approved payments from annual appropriations. Generally, they do not exceed five-twelfths of the1972- 73 appropriations but where the arrangement is for quarterly or half-yearly payments provision has been made accordingly. Further payments to or for the States will be made from special appropriations and the Loan Fund. 
An amount of $30m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year, and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill be  now read a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish a comprehensive system of supervision of general insurance. 
The present system under the Insurance Act 1932-1966, which allows persons to open insurance businesses on payment of a small deposit and leaves them free of any real supervision thereafter, is quite inadequate and ought to have been reformed years ago. I will be seeking leave to introduce the Insurance (Deposits) Bill to rename the Insurance Act 1932-1966 and to allow for its place to be taken by the extensive measures embodied in the Bill which is now before the House. 
Under the Bill, those wishing to commence new insurance businesses in Australia will need to be bodies corporate which can meet the minimum standards of financial soundness laid down in the Bill. Existing insurers, that is, those carrying on insurance business in Australia on 9th December 1971, will be required to meet the same standards, except in special circumstances provided for in the Bill to meet the particular situations of some existing companies which are financially sound, existing insurers who do not wish to continue business or who cannot meet the financial tests will be subject to transitional provisions, which could include investigations, for the purpose of their orderly withdrawal from the business, special provisions have been made for Lloyd's underwriters, who are not bodies corporate, to carry on Austraiian business subject to prescribed conditions. 
After receiving an authority, an insurer will be obliged to maintain the prescribed standards and will be subject to continuous supervision. An authorised insurer who fails to maintain the required standards, or appears to be in danger of falling below the standards, will be subject to investigation. 'Following investigation, directions may be issued to the body corporate as to the future conduct of its business. 
The Bill incorporates a number of improvements on the Insurance Bill 1972, which was introduced into the House on 28 th September 1972 but which lapsed when Parliament was dissolved. The style and presentation of the Bill has been improved in many ways, for example, by the inclusion of a table of provisions, rearrangement of clauses and textual improvements which make the Bill easier to understand. Some changes of substance have been made after review in the light of comments received on the earlier Bill. In addition, the Bill contains a new part to provide for the appointment of an Insurance Commissioner by the Governor-General subject to statutory terms and conditions of appointment. 
The scope of the Bill is limited to the purpose to which I have referred, namely, the setting up of an effective system of supervision. There are various other aspects of general insurance which the Government wishes to look at more closely. They include the supervision of insurance brokers, for which legislation is being prepared, overseas ownership and control of insurance companies, which is at present under study, and the general question whether more needs to be done to protect policy owners and to safeguard the community's interest in general insurance. It will, however, take time to complete the necessary investigations and the Government has decided that meanwhile the introduction of this Bill ought not to be deferred. 
In this connection the Government has received a proposal from the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  that a committee of experts be established to examine ways in which the insurance legislation can be strengthened and improved. I pay tribute to the honourable member for Hawker for the considerable amount of interest and acumen that he has displayed in this important field. The question of establishing this committee is currently under examination and when a decision is made, I will inform the House. I shall now outline in more detail the main provisions that are embodied in the Bill. 
Part I of the Bill defines insurance business and the scope and application of the Bill. Provision is made for parts I and II to come into operation on royal assent and for the remaining provisions to come into force by proclamation. The definition of 'insurance business' is similar to that in the Insurance Act 1932-1966, but specific reference is made to reinsurance to avoid any doubts as to coverage, and there are some additions to the types of business excluded from the definition in that Act. 
The conduct of insurance business by State government bodies will not be subject to the provisions of the Bill. The liabilities of those bodies are guaranteed by the respective State governments. I mention, however, that the State governments have agreed that their insurance offices will co-operate in furnishing statistical information to the Insurance Commissioner. 
Part II of the Bill provides for the creation of the statutory office of Insurance Commissioner whose duty it will be to administer the Act, subject to the direction of the Treasurer. Creation of this new office will necessitate an amendment to the Life Insurance Act  1945- 1965  and I will be seeking leave to introduce a Bill to amend the name of the office under that Act to Life Insurance Commissioner. The Insurance Commissioner will be appointed by the Governor-General and the terms and conditions of this appointment and the provisions for termination, suspension and resignation are spelt out in detail. Provision is also made for an acting commissioner and for the Commissioner's staff. 
Part HI provides for the granting of an authority to a body corporate and prescribes the conditions of financial soundness which must be maintained by an authorised insurer. The Part prohibits the carrying on of insurance business other than by a body corporate authorised under the Act or by a Lloyd's underwriter. I shall refer later to special conditions that will apply to Lloyd's underwriters. In relation to the operation of bodies corporate, one of the main conditions of financial soundness is that the company must have and must maintain a margin of assets in Australia over liabilities in Australia equal to  15  per cent of premium income in Australia during the preceding financial year or  $100,000,  whichever is the greater. Provision is also made in this Part for the cancellation of authorities in specified circumstances. 
Part IV of the Bill requires accounts to be kept and audited accounts and statements to be furnished in prescribed form. It also deals with the appointment and duties of auditors. This is an important part of the legislation. The scope and accuracy of the information to be provided to the Commissioner will be important to the fully effective operation of the system of supervision. The information furnished to the Commissioner will be processed and published as aggregates for general information. This will be an important byproduct of the legislation because comprehensive statistical information on the general insurance industry in Australia has to date not been readily available. 
Part V provides for the making of inquiries and for investigation of a body corporate where it is doubtful whether the body corporate can continue to meet its liabilities or to comply with the requirements of the Act. The investigation provisions are modelled on the corresponding provisions of the uniform companies Acts. Following an investigation, the Treasurer may issue directions to the insurer as to the further conduct of its business. The intention is that every effort will be made to avoid the failure of a company. Part VI establishes an insurance tribunal to hear appeals against administrative decisions under the legislation. These provisions are an important feature of the Bill. They give valuable rights to an insurer or auditor to have a rehearing of decisions taken by the Administration. Provision is also made for a question of law arising in proceedings before the tribunal to be referred to the Commonealth Industrial Court. 
Part VII authorises the carrying on of insurance business in Australia by Lloyd's underwriters, subject to compliance by the Society of Lloyd's with the provisions of this Part and the schedule. Lloyd's underwriters, being individuals with unlimited personal liability who operate in syndicates with other Lloyd's underwriters, do not fit into the general supervisory scheme of the Bill which relates to bodies corporate. Accordingly, special provisions are included for this class of insurer. The main requirements are that the Society of Lloyd's will lodge Commonwealth securities with the Treasurer to the value of  $500,000  and will also lodge a covenant or covenants by an Australian bank or banks in favour of the Treasurer equal in amount to the annual net premium income of Lloyd's underwriters from their Australian business. These amounts will be available to satisfy final judgements obtained in Australia against Lloyd's underwriters. Provision is also made for the Society of Lloyd's to furnish such accounts and statements as the Treasurer determines, corresponding as far as practicable to the accounts and statements to be furnished by bodies corporate under the legislation. 
Part VIII provides for the protection of State legislation on insurance. There are many State laws which contain insurance provisions incidental to the main purposes of those laws and it is not intended to disturb the provisions in question. The protection does not, however, extend to allowing the States to make laws to authorise persons and bodies corporate to carry on insurance business generally. Part IX protects existing State legislation which controls the whole field of general insurance, for transitional periods, to allow the Commonwealth legislation to take full effect. The only State which has such legislation is Queensland and under Part IX Federal supervision of insurance companies will take the place of State supervision in Queensland in stages over a period up to  2  years. This 
Part also makes transitional arrangements for those currently carrying on insurance business who will not be able to meet the requirement of the Bill or who do not apply for an authority to carry on insurance business. These provisions, which aim at the orderly withdrawal of such persons and companies from the insurance market and include power to investigate where necessary, will be very important during the early years of the operation of the legislation. 
As honourable members are aware, the Australian Labor Party has been pressing for many years for reforms in the general insurance legislation and I am confident that this Bill will achieve considerable improvements in the industry and help to restore the public's confidence after the unfortunate and unnecessary failures of recent years, I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to change the name of the Insurance Act 1932-1966 to the Insurance (Deposits) Act 1932-1973, to provide for the termination of the deposit requirement after the new system of supervision provided for in the Insurance Bill becomes fully effective and to provide for other matters consequential upon introduction of the Insurance Bill. Other than some minor drafting and printing changes, the Bill is the same as the Insurance (Deposits) BiN 1972, which was introduced into the House on 28th September 1972, but which was not debated and lapsed when Parliament dissolved. The Bill is commended to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  BUI be  now  read  a second dme. 
The purpose of this Bill is to change the title of the statutory office in the Life Insurance Act 1945-4965 from Insurance Commissioner to Life Insurance Commissioner, to avoid confusion with the statutory office of Insurance Commissioner provided for in the Insurance Bill 1973. Two minor technical amendments are also included which are designed to bring the legislation into line with current practice. The Bill is commended to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This  BUI  proposes amendments to the export incentive grants legislation to remove some disabilities affecting statutory marketing authorities. Under the present law a marketing authority which acquires ownership of goods it exports or sells for export may, within 60 days of coming into existence, make an election which gives it the right to have these goods taken into account for the purpose of ascertaining its export grant. These requirements have been judged to be unnecessarily restrictive. In practice they can mean that exports made by the authorities on behalf of suppliers are not reflected in export grants. The proposed amendments will enable an election to be made by an authority whether or not it acquires ownership of the goods it exports and will also remove the 60-day limit for making an election. An election made after the commencement of the amending Act may, at the option of the authority, apply from as early as the commencement of the 1971-72 grant year. These amendments will also permit a marketing authority, by the issue of export certificates, to pass part or all of its grant entitlement for the 1971-72 year or a subsequent grant year to licensees associated with it in the marketing of Australian produced goods. 
Other provisions of the Bill will permit wider participation by gold producers in the export incentives scheme. It will enable the Gold Producers' Association to pass on to gold producers the benefit of export certificates received by the association as a supplier of gold fabricated into goods for export. These provisions will apply as from the 1971-72 financial year. Apart from the amendments relating to marketing boards and gold producers, the Bill does no more than continue the present export incentive scheme for another year. What will happen after 30th June 1974 has yet to be decided, so it cannot yet be said whether the present scheme or some other scheme will operate or even no scheme. That will he decided later, in the light of a number of relevant factors. In the event that there were no schemes, consideration might be given to the need for hardship relief, but if that proved to be the situation such relief would not, of course, provide tinder a different name concessions as generous as the present incentives. These questions about the position after 30th June 1974 will be examined and the decision announced later. A memorandum providing detailed explanations of the provisions of the Bill is being made available to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will make amendments to the Payroll Tax Assessment Act corresponding with those proposed in relation to gold producers in the Export Incentive Grants Bill which I have just introduced. The Exports Incentive Grants scheme is the successor to the payroll tax rebate scheme adopted when payroll tax was transferred to the States. The amendments will apply in respect of the financial years 1968-69 to 1970-71 and will enable the actual producers of gold to receive export certificates under the payroll tax rebate scheme as suppliers of components where, after having been sold by a prescribed company for industrial use in Australia, gold has been fabricated into goods and exported. The memorandum explaining the provisions of the Export Incentive Grants Bill also contains explanations of the provisions of this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate  (on  motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
in reply - I thank those honourable members who have contributed to this debate from both sides of the House for their general acceptance of this measure. I am a little intrigued by the former Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  - whose Government had 23 years to do things in this country - who said what he might have done if only he had had another 12 months. The honourable member reminds me of all old reactionaries. He is in favour of every social revolution, except the next one. At least this evening there has been some acknowledgment that there are victims of inflation and that we should endeavour to remedy the circumstances of those people, where we can. We have begun in this legislation with a group of people who have been employees of the Crown at the Commonwealth level. What is being done under this legislation is to guarantee to them in retirement something like a standard which has a relativity to their last working years. I hope that eventually that can be done for everybody in the Australian community. This is why we are going to bring in for this country a scheme of national superannuation which will cover everyone, not just the fortunate few who happen to be covered either by private superannuation schemes - heavily subsidised by the tax arrangements - or those who are employees of the Crown at either State or Commonwealth level. 
One thing that came out tonight is the fact that of every $7 that is received as a Commonwealth benefit by the average recipient, the Commonwealth pays $5 and the contributor has paid $2. At least they are in a more fortunate position than the something like two-thirds of the population of Australia who are still not covered by superannuation. We are looking after those whom we can look after, but eventually everybody ought to be looked after. This is the ultimate purpose of a national scheme. I say to the former Minister for Social Services who, with former governments, could have done something over i long period of years and who is now beginning to be critical in advance of this proposed scheme, that at least we are asking for communication from the public. As I said, he is the old reactionary. 
He achieved less than he might have achieved and he left this country in a position where its social service levels generally were in a deplorable state in terms of what the affluence of its economy could have afforded. This is what we want to redress in the years ahead. I hope that in that endeavour we will have the co-operation that has been indicative tonight in regard to this measure which at least does justice for some. We want to do justice for all. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The deposit requirement however does not apply to borrowings specifically to finance trade transactions on normal trade credit terms, or to borrowings not exceeding $100,000 in any 12-month period. 
(3) and (4) The objective of the scheme is to raise the effective final cost of overseas borrowing and thereby reduce the rate of capital inflow which occurred in 1971 and 1972. As the Prime Minister said in his statement of 23rd December 1972, this had resulted in a build-up of domestic liquidity to a dangerously excessive level. By moderating the rate of increase in liquidity the measure is designed to permit the Government to manage Australia's affairs in the interests of Australians. It follows that national development will not, overall, be adversely affected by the scheme, the continuing operation of which is, of course, kept under review. 
I have made no assessment of the effects that this ban will have on Australia's trade and individually I do not intend to do so. I regard that to be within somebody else's jurisdiction. In any case, at the moment it is hypothetical and I refrain from comment. 
 I move: 
That the Bill  be now read a second  time. 
This is a further measure to amend the income tax law. Amongst its proposals are provisions to give effect to the decision announced on 7th May 1973 to discontinue tax deductions for capital subscribed to mining or prospecting companies. Amendments foreshadowed on 16th July 1972 by the then Treasurer, dealing with misuse of these deductions, are also proposed by the Bill. Section 77d of the Income Tax Assessment Act makes deductions available to residents of Australia for capital subscribed directly, or through interposed companies, to companies engaged in mining or prospecting for oil or other minerals in Australia or Papua New Guinea, fo enable shareholders to qualify for the deductions a mining company must lodge with the Commissioner of Taxation a declaration that the capital is for expenditure on rnining or prospecting. By making this declaration the company confers deductions on its shareholders but forgoes any entitlement it might itself eventually have to be allowed deductions for the expenditure. 
Under section 77c, and provisions which preceded it, deductions are allowable to  residents  and non-residents alike for one-third of amounts paid as calls to companies engaged in prospecting for minerals in Australia or Papua New Guinea. An exploration company is not required to forgo any part of its own deductions in return for the one-third deduction allowed to its shareholders. The stated purpose of these deductions has been to assist companies to attract capital for mining and exploration projects. They have been a costly and inefficient way of doing this and have opened up avenues for tax avoidance by persons who have contributed little, if at all, towards mining development in Australia. 
The Bill proposes that the deductions will cease to be generally allowable for capital paid to mining or prospecting companies after 7th May 1973. As a transitional measure, deductions will remain available for amounts subscribed after that date by a person who owned the shares at that date as payment of an earlier call made by the company. Special provision is also to be made to cover bona fide arrangements where, before the termination date, a listed public company raised new capital, or made a call on its shareholders, to enable it to finance mining or prospecting expenditure by an associated mining company. The associated company will, in these circumstances, be permitted to lodge a declaration when the capital raised or called up by 7th May is subscribed to it by the listed public company. This will preserve the entitlement to deductions of shareholders in the listed company. 
Tax avoidance schemes against which the Bill is directed have the purpose of conferring deductions on persons whose contributions of capital to mining or prospecting companies are recovered, wholly or substantially, by an early disposal of their interests. In one typical scheme persons contribute the share capital of a newly incorporated prospecting company, usually doing this through an interposed private company set up for the purpose. After lodgment of the necessary declarations to confer deductions on the contributors, but before the subscribed capital has been expended, the shares in the prospecting company are sold at a discount to an established mining company which in most cases is substantially owned by overseas interests. The objective of the arrangement is that the persons originating the scheme should obtain deductions for the whole of the capital of the prospecting company, although they are out of pocket only to the extent of the amount of discount allowed on the sale of the shares. The amount of the discount is the only amount of new money being made available for mining or prospecting purposes because all that has really happened is that the established mining company has acquired the unexpended capital of the prospecting company at a discount. 
The Bill proposes to amend the law so as to specify that persons carrying a scheme of this kind through to completion after 16th July 1972 will not be allowed deductions for an amount of capital subscribed equal to the sale price of the shares. The deductions will thus effectively be limited to the actual amount of new mining capital contributed. The relevant company will also be regarded as having declared only this amount. Deductions for call moneys under section 77c will be limited in a similar way. 
Another scheme proposed to be dealt with by the Bill involves the use of the interposed company provisions of section 77d as a means of circumventing the general rule against the allowance of double deductions for subscriptions of mining capital. Essentially the scheme involves the subscription of capital for mining shares acquired for resale through an interposed company which lodges a declaration in favour of its shareholders. When the shares are sold, the interposed company can claim a deduction against the sale price for the capital subscribed by it on the shares, despite the fact that it has already lodged a declaration to confer a deduction for this amount on its shareholders. The Bill proposes that a company that has lodged a declaration for share capital subscribed to it after 16th July 1972 will not be entitled to claim a deduction in its own right in respect of expenditure of the capital on shares in a mining company. 
Other amendments, mainly technical in nature, are proposed to apply from 17th July 1972 for as long as the concessions for capital paid to mining companies continue. One of these amendments will make it clear that, if a mining company does not comply with a declaration under section 77d as to how it will expend specified moneys, the Commissioner of Taxation will be authorised to reduce the level of deductions of shareholders who subscribed the money through an interposed company. Another amendment will overcome a technical deficiency in the law that can enable a productive mining company, by arranging its accounts in a particular way, to defer payment of tax on income up to the amount of deductions that it has transferred to its shareholders through a declaration. 
The Bill also contains provisions to give effect to the recently announced decision that the income tax concessions available to visiting experts are to be withdrawn. The concessions available for industrial experts are 2- pronged. First there is an exemption from income tax for up to 2 years where the expert is subject to tax in his own country. Where this exemption does not apply, a rebate of tax is allowable for up to 4 years sufficient to ensure that Australian tax does not exceed the tax that would have been payable in the expert's home country if the income had been earned there. These concessions were introduced in the early post-war years with the aim of assisting in the building up and improving of Australian industry. At that time there was a shortage of local expertise, and overseas experts were reluctant to come here because of the relatively high levels of Australian income tax. Australia did not have double taxation agreements .with the countries from which the majority of visiting experts come. 
Conditions are vastly different now. Local experts are available in most if not all fields; our rates of tax are more in line with those of the countries from which most visiting experts have been recruited, and Australia has double taxation agreements with most of these countries. On these grounds alone there would have been a good case for withdrawing the visiting experts' concessions. But on top of that there has been evidence that the concessions were not operating as had been intended. About 90 per cent of visiting experts are employed by overseas-owned enterprises, most of which have ready access to overseas expertise and would, in the normal course and without any concessions, be expected to move experts to 'and from Australia Furthermore, instead of using the period for which the concessions are available to train local experts to replace the visiting experts, many firms have merely brought in replacement staff from overseas at the end of each prior visit so that, rather than diffusing overseas expertise through Australian industry, the result has often been the continued employment of overseas instead of local experts. It is estimated that these concessions cost about $7m a year. A large part of this has been given up for the benefit of foreign treasuries without having any effect on the visiting expert or his Australian employer. 
For all of these reasons it was decided to withdraw these income tax concessions, and introduce in their place a system of direct grants to Australian enterprises employing visiting experts. Details of this scheme, which will be administered by the Department of Secondary Industry, are being developed now. It has been concluded that, with the withdrawal of the concessions for visiting industrial experts, the exemption for experts who come to assist government should also cease to apply. This Bill accordingly withdraws the present income tax concessions, subject to transitional provisions in relation *o visits that commence on or before 30th June 1973 and in relation to visits that commence after that date in pursuance of a contract entered into by the date of the Government's announcement. Legislation to give effect to the grants scheme will be introduced at a later date. 
The remaining proposals in the Bill are a result of the introduction by the Commonwealth of schemes to assist with the education of children living in isolated areas and for the payment of a domiciliary nursing care benefit to persons taking care of invalid aged relations in their homes. The amendments proposed in relation to the isolated children's education scheme will ensure that allowances paid under the scheme will receive the same exemption from income tax as payments under the Commonwealth secondary and technical scholarship schemes. Like the scholarship schemes, however, amounts payable for the maintenance or accommodation of isolated children are to be taken into account for the purposes of the concessional deductions for maintenance of dependants, while allowances paid in respect of education costs are to be taken into account in calculating the concessional deduction for a child's education expenses. 
Domiciliary nursing care benefit payments are also to be exempt from income tax. It is also proposed that the receipt of these benefits will not disturb the level of any concessional deductions otherwise allowable for the maintenance of a dependant or the payment of medical expenses of a person provided for by the scheme. Detailed explanations of technical aspects of the Bill are contained in a memorandum being circulated to honourable members. 
This Bill and the Income Tax Assessment Bill I introduced earlier in the sittings contain important measures directed against tax avoidance. In the Budget sittings I will be introducing legislation to prevent tax haven resort to Norfolk Island and other territories under Australian control. It has not proved practicable to have this legislation drafted for the current sittings, but it will take the form outlined in the statement made by my predecessor on 19th July 1972. It will be operative as from then. As long as the tax laws can be exploited or circumvented by a relatively small number of persons, there can be little fairness in a situation in which the resultant loss of revenue has to be made up by the taxpaying public. The Government is determined to curtail tax avoidance and will move as quickly as possible to deal with fresh schemes as they are encountered. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
 I rise to reply briefly to what was said by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  who quoted quite accurately from the annual reports of the Commissioner of Taxation details concerning certain people whose income had been undisclosed. The honourable member selected, according to his knowledge, particular examples and indicated the sources from which the income that had not been recorded had been received. The point I want to make is that taxing income is simply taxing what comes in, and the Commissioner of Taxation does not have to be concerned about the morality or immorality of the sources of income. I have the greatest commendation for the zeal of my Department in finding out those people in the community who do not reveal all the income that they actually receive. 
I come now to something that ought to be noted by honourable members, particularly those who, a few days ago, voted according to their consciences on a Bill relating to abortion. I must say that I received on this subject the greatest spate of letters that I have ever had in the 22 years that I have been a member of this Parliament. The purport of a lot of those letters was that abortion was child murder. I do not agree with that extreme description, but the honourable member for Hunter indicated tonight that there has been a lot of child murder going on for a great number of years. I would hope that those who voted with their consciences in their pockets the other evening might realise some of the practicalities of what is going on and that if it is income the Commissioner of Taxation will reveal it. But if some honourable members think they can conceal this matter by making pious declarations they are flying in the face of what is a very serious social problem. The honourable member for Hunter has indicated in his own way - and he is not always the subtlest in revealing some of the fundamental truths - that if one person concealed income of about $250,000, we can realise the magnitude of something that some honourable members thought they had brushed away last week. 
I think the whole question of the role of the permanent building societies and others with respect to the provision of credit for housing needs to be re-examined. I do not think the permanent building societies, in particular, are in any position to dictate the circumstances. I believe that they have been more favoured borrowers than have some other areas of credit extension in the past. This has had the unfortunate effect of forcing up the lending rate generally. What has happened is that funds that formerly resided in the State savings banks and, to some extent, in the trading banks and to which an interest rate of about 4 to 5 per cent applied, have now been encouraged by, in my view, too blatant advertising programs into organisations offering to the lender something like 61 per cent interest. If that is the borrowing rate, obviously the lending rate to the purchaser of houses has to be at least in excess of 61 per cent. 
The permanent building societies up to date have not had any liquidity arrangements placed upon them. They are not like the insurance companies which have to pay a certain proportion of their funds into government securities. They are not like the trading banks which are subject to liquid assets and government securities, statutory reserve deposits and other kinds of arrangements and limitations on borrowings. I believe that the permanent building societies have mushroomed far too fast for the general welfare of housing in Australia. They are the kinds of organisation that cut across all the canons of prudent finance; that is, they borrow short and lend long. For those reasons I do not want to say too much about the situation at the moment. It would be highly unfortunate if anything in the nature of a run were to take place against the permanent building societies. I hope that for their own sake, as well as for the good of the people they claim to serve, something will be done about restraining the rate at which they lend and also the excessive, in my view, advertising campaigns that they conduct. 
I know, but I am not giving any answer separately about this point. All I am saying is that I do not think the permanent building societies are in any position to call the terms. I have said before in this House that we are giving serious consideration to putting upon other lending institutions, including the permanent building societies, some of the controls on lending policy that already exist in respect of life insurance and the banking system generally. When I am in a position to make a statement I will- 
I hear a lot of tedious repetition from the other side. I have been rather surprised since I became Treasurer. I do not think I have been asked one substantia] question by the Opposition since I came to office. I regard it as a tribute to the way that I am doing the job. 
For the information of the honourable member, I state that I will be receiving a visit this afternoon from  Mr Hall  of the permanent building society associations in New South Wales. I will take the opportunity to indicate to him that I have every confidence in the financial stability of the building associations. 
It is not a change of heart. 1 resent the fact that certain sections of the Press have, it seems to me, misconstrued the words which I said. I shall repeat those words. 
I want to repeat them. I must say that never in my political experience have I seen a statement as fatuous as the one issued by the former Treasurer in response to what was said. I indicated when I was asked about it - I shall repeat it - that I believe that interest rates are better low than high. I acknowledge the difficulty of lowering them overall very quickly. I went on to say - and I repeat it - that I believe that as we have imposed social control over certain areas of credit extension, we ought to look at the situation as it applies to other areas. Then I referred to what would happen if we were to do it suddenly. I indicate that I have no intention of doing it suddenly; I am going to consult with the interests involved to indicate the ideas that I have and to listen to the defences that they have. 
I at least give the honourable member the reassurance that what I said was not intended to provoke unrest among people who have deposited money with those institutions. I still believe that for home owners to be borrowing at 74 per cent to  li  per cent places a very intolerable burden upon them. I think that many groups in the community have been priced out of the market by high building costs, high land costs and high interest costs, and surely H should be the concern of all of us to try to lower any and all of those elements. 
The present Government has indicated always that it is concerned about the problem of inflation. 
Neither did the honourable member's Government. Inflation is no new thing in Australia. 
It was running at 8 per cent in the time of the previous Government, and there seemed to be no great concern about it. What we have endeavoured to do is to indicate that the solution of this problem requires the co-operation of both levels of government and it is not approached merely by being concerned only about wages. If one likes to indulge in the circular, dog chasing its tail, type of argument, I suppose it is true enough that if wages rise they have some effect upon prices. But equally, if there is no restraint upon prices one cannot be surprised that wage-earners seek to restore their standards of living by seeking increased wages. 
There has been a lot of talk in a lot of places about what is called a prices-incomes policy. I repeat what I have said several times in this House: To get a prices-incomes policy in Australia, the minimum conditions of its success are that in the process there should be trustful co-operation between employer and employee groups with the Government at least trying to hold the ring and not intervening on one side as against the other, as did the previous Government. I suggest that that is the minimum condition. Another condition to getting employee co-operation is to do something about prices. That is what we have endeavoured to do in our 3 -pronged approach. We have the Prices Justification Tribunal, the legislation for which is not yet through the other place; the Prices Committee; and we are seeking the co-operation of the States as well in trying to do something about retail pricing in particular. 
This is not an easy problem, as the honourable gentleman who is interjecting knows. There are very few examples, if one likes to cast round, of incomes policies being successful. I suppose the best example is the Scandinavian countries and even there it is not an unmixed success; but such success as has been achieved has been achieved because there have been better working relationships between employer and employees groups in those countries, andI hope we can get better relationships here. 
IfI am required to amplify the answer I gave to the previous question I simply say this: If what I said on Thursday has caused concern, I hope that what I am trying to say now - that I intended no such thing - will at least restore the sudden lack of confidence that seems to have been occasioned by the remarks that I made. I have indicated that I was not reflecting in any way upon the stability of any particular organisation. I had simply pointed out, as is obvious enough, that these concerns have mushroomed to a considerable extent, that they have been able to induce as a source of lending loans from people who would have preferred to have left the money in the savings bank at a lesser rate, and that at least that has had effect of pushing up the interest rate charged for the building of some homes. It is all right to suggest that, because of inflation at 4 per cent, 5 per cent. 6 per cent or 7 per cent - whatever you like - an interest rate of 6 per cent is negative. This of course conveniently begs the question that only some people in the community are lenders of money and that very large numbers are borrowers, and surely both sides suffer from the effects of inflation. 
If the honourable gentleman wants to get into a philosophical debate about interest rates generally, I am prepared to do that. However with all respect I do not think that question time is the time to do it. But surely one has to try to adjudicate equally or equitably between lenders and borrowers in the process. Some lending institutions have had controls placed upon them that have made it difficult for them to do some of the things that the building societies are able to do. Surely the question is whether the privileges of one, because of the lack of social regulation, are greater than they should be. I am prepared to discuss those matters with the building societies, and I intend to do so this afternoon. If any reassurance is required, let me say that I have not reflected upon the financial integrity of any of these organisations. I have merely suggested that if I were to do suddenly what I think ought to have been done a good number of years ago it might cause some immediate difficulty. At least I give the reassurance that I will not do things suddenly; that I will do them only after the fullest consultation with the interests involved and after considering the information that I will obtain from Treasury and Reserve Bank officials. 
Certainly the expenditure would not be allowable as a charitable item. I can assure the honourable gentleman of that. The only items that are allowed as deductions for income tax purposes are expenses necessarily incurred in earning income. With all respect, I doubt whether the levy is of that kind, and I would be surprised indeed if it came within the eligibility of  a  legitimate business expenditure. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) On 8 May 1973 I tabled the Report of the Treasury Committee on Superannuation. The Report reviews the present superannuation arrangements for Commonwealth employees and includes recommendations for a new superannuation scheme. The Government has taken no stand on the Report at this stage and has expressed interest in receiving comments on the Report from interested persons and organisations. 
The features mentioned are dealt with in the Committee's Report. Regarding (c), the Superannuation Bill 1973, which I introduced on 2 May 1973, provides for automatic annual adjustments of superannuation pensions on the basis recommended by Professor A. H. Pollard in his Report on Superannuation Pension Updating tabled by the Prime Minister on 10 April 1973. 
Yes. 
It would be premature to indicate a decision which might be made on this matter before a further report is received from the Superannuation Board in conjunction with the Tenth Quinquennial Investigation now in progress and the outcome of the present inquiry into superannuation arrangements. 
No. 
The Board is expanding further its advisory, counselling and training service which provides for group addresses and retirement counselling including interviews and written advice on individual problems. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prime Minister, in his Election Policy Speech, announced a proposal to allow income tax deductions in respect of payments to a recognised child care centre, up to a maximum of $260 per annum. 
The proposal is being examined and will, in the normal course, come under consideration in the context of the Budget discussions. In all the circumstances it would not however appear practicable to render such payments an allowance deduction in respect of the present financial year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) This matter will be further considered, along with other requests for taxation concessions, when the 1973-74 Budget is being prepared. 
I thank the honourable member for asking that question because it gives me the opportunity to deny certain rumours that seem to be circulating in this area. I am pilloried at times for things I have said, but one certainly does not deserve to be abused for something that has not been said. There is no intention to alter the existing provisions about payments of lump sums on retirement. As far as I know, ever since income tax has been in existence there has been provision that with lump sum payments, 5 per cent only is regarded as subject to income tax in the first year. The presumption is that thereafter the recipient would sensibly and prudently invest the lump sum and it would return an income of its own. There is no intention to alter that provision of the Act and I resent the fact that some mischievious people seem to be circulating a proposition that there is an intent to increase the proportion on which tax is payable from 5 per cent to 25 per cent. I give an unqualified assurance that there is no such intention. 
As 1 have indicated before in this House, I am not answerable for the American dollar. I am answerable for the Australian dollar and I believe that the decisions taken on 23 December were in the best interests of Australia, and I think subsequent events have borne that out. 
This case shows that there are distinct weaknesses both in the foreign take-over legislation and also, in my view, in the stock exchange regulations in Victoria. Despite the belief of most people that Kauri Holdings Ltd was an Australian company it was already a foreign company insofar as at least IS per cent of its share holding was held abroad, because 33 per cent of the equity in Kauri Holdings was held by Boise Cascade Corporation. Unfortunately the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act does not have provisions covering the takeover of a foreign company by another foreign company. I think this points to the need to rewrite the Act. In many respects the Act has been a very effective piece of legislation despite the haste with which it was constructed. It has enabled us to stop one or two takeovers which otherwise might have been consummated and it has prevented a lot of takeovers from taking place. But in this case unfortunately I think the Australian company which made the offer made it too late. The company made it after our examination had shown that we had no power in this case. But I think that what has been done reflects somewhat upon the directors of Kauri Holdings Ltd because what has happened is that 67 per cent or two-thirds of the shareholders have been effectively locked out of any decision as far as the takeover was concerned. This, as I indicated points to deficiencies, both in the Commonwealth law in regard to foreign takeovers and in the way that stock exchange regulations operate in Victoria. 
A week before the Victorian election, the Prime Minister and I attended a meeting of Premiers, after which committees of officers were set up to bring along proposals. Those talks are continuing. There has been no rejection or acceptance of anybody's point of view. What there has been is a clarifying of issues and we are to meet with the Premiers again on 28 June. 
Pursuant to section 11 of the Life Insurance Act 1945-1965, I present the twenty-seventh annual report of the Insurance Commissioner for the year ended 31 December 1972. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes amendments to the appeals provisions of the income tax law to transfer to the State Supreme Courts the jurisdiction of single justices of the High Court in income tax appeals. This is intended as an interim measure pending the establishment of the proposed Superior Court. There is a pressing need to relieve the High Court, so far as possible, of the single justice work. Some of this work derives directly from the Constitution and cannot be removed from the jurisdiction of the High Court. Other parts of that jurisdiction derive from Commonwealth statutes and may be removed by amendment of the statutes. By far the greater volume of work presented in the single justice jurisdiction of the High Court consists of income tax appeals, either appeals brought directly from a Commissioner's decision or from a decision of a board of review. 
Under the Income Tax Assessment Act a taxpayer, if dissatisfied with a decision of the 
Commissioner, may request a reference of the matter to a board of review or to the High Court or to the Supreme Court of a State as an appeal. It is proposed that in future a taxpayer's choice will lie between a board of review and a single Judge of a State Supreme Court. Similarly, where the present law allows the Commissioner or a taxpayer to appeal to the High Court from a decision of a board of review involving a question of law, it is proposed that the right of appeal shall lie to a single Judge of a State Supreme Court. References by a board of review to the High Court on a question of law arising before the board will, in future be to a single Judge of a State Supreme Court. 
The amendments provide that where a taxpayer has gone to a board of review and on appeal to a State Supreme Court, or where a board has referred a question of law to a Supreme Court, the matter may, with the leave of the High Court, be taken on appeal to the Full High Court. Where a taxpayer requests the Commissioner to treat his objection as an appeal and the matter is, under the proposed amendments, decided by a State Supreme Court the present law gives the taxpayer or the Commissioner the right of appeal - without leave - to the High Court in its appelate jurisdiction. This will remain unchanged. The amendments also provide for certain procedural and transitional arrangements. Principally, these will permit the High Court to remit to a Supreme Court any of the single justice income tax matters which have come to it under the present law. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to improve the retirement schemes provided under the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances and Judges Pensions Acts. The changes to the parliamentary scheme were foreshadowed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when introducing the Remuneration and Allowances Bill on 28 
March 1973. At present the parliamentary scheme provides for a retiring allowance on involuntary retirement at the rate of 50 per cent of the parliamentary allowance provided 8 years or more service has been completed. The Government has concluded that this should be changed so that recognition will be given to length of service. Accordingly, the Bill provides for a retiring allowance of 50 per cent of the parliamentary allowance on involuntary retirement after 8 years service increasing with each additional completed year of service to a maximum of 75 per cent after 20 years. The 3 occasions rule will continue to apply and the retiring allowances, including those now payable, will be maintained at the level of the entitlements of serving members. The contribution rate will remain at Hi per cent of the parliamentary allowance. 
The Bill removes the existing minimum age 40 qualification for retiring allowance on involuntary retirement and raises the minimum age qualification for retiring allowance on voluntary retirement from 40 to 45 years, the age at which members at present qualify for the basic 50 per cent retiring allowance on retirement at age 45 if they have completed the necessary period of service. The qualifying period of 12 years service when retirement is voluntary is retained. The rights of present serving members are protected where they are superior to those provided in the Bill. 
The Bill makes provision for recognition of a member's service in a State House before entering the Australian Parliament. Where the member established entitlement to a State parliamentary retiring allowance his service in the State Parliament will be taken into account in determining the level of his entitlement, which will then be reduced by the retiring allowance received from the State. Where the member received from the State only a refund of his contributions he will, if he so desires, be able to pay the refund to consolidated revenue and have his State service recognised for entitlement purposes. As well, members entering the scheme will be permitted to pay in moneys available from previous employment in the form of preserved SUPperannuation benefits, that is, lump sum benefits including an employer element. These payments will purchase notional 'past' service and enable a member to become entitled to a retiring allowance at an earlier date or at a higher rate than would otherwise be the case. 
There will also be special arrangements for members who have life assurance policies of the federated superannuation system for universities type. These preservation arrangements will operate retrospectively from 1 January 1970, the operative date of the preservation provisions in the superannuation and defence forces retirement benefits schemes. 
The Bill removes those provisions of the Act that require the reduction of retiring allowance where the person in receipt of the retiring allowance is receiving remuneration as the holder of an office under, or from employment by, the Commonwealth or a State or an authority of the Commonwealth or a State. This change will bring the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act into line with the superannuation and the defence forces retirement benefits Acts from which corresponding re-employment provisions were removed in 1965. The provisions requiring reduction of retiring allowance if the recipient receives salary or pension as a member or former member of a State Parliament or as a State Minister, or cancellation of retiring allowance if he is re-elected to the Commonwealth Parliament, are, however, retained. 
Another important change relates to retirement from the Parliament because of ill-health before the completion of 8 years service. At present a member receives in such circumstances a refund of his contributions plus a Commonwealth supplement, the normal benefit payable to a member who has not qualified for a retiring allowance. The Bill provides for a member who retires because of ill-health before completing 8 years service to receive a retiring allowance at the 8 years level provided that, on becoming a member, he furnished a medical certificate to the effect that he was not likely to be rendered incapable of performing his duties within a period of 8 years. Present members who have not yet completed 8 years service will need to furnish a certificate for the balance of the 8 years only. 
The widow of . a serving or retired member will receive an annuity of five-sixths of the rate of the retiring allowance that was or would have been payable to the deceased. This is the level that generally applies now. Where the serving member did not complete 8 years service before his death he will be deemed to have completed 8 years service for the purpose of the widow's annuity. As at present the widow will have the option of receiving, instead of an annuity, a lump sum benefit. The widow of a marriage contracted after the member's retirement at present receives no benefit. The Bill provides for a widow's benefit to be payable where the marriage was contracted before the former member attained age 60 or at least 5 years before his death. Provision is also made for benefits to be payable to widowers of serving and retired female members on the same basis as widows of serving and retired male members. 
The Bill also provides for the ministerial retiring allowances scheme to be abolished. Ministerial retiring allowances presently being paid will, however, continue and existing contributors and former contributors still serving in the Parliament who have qualified for a ministerial retiring allowance will receive on their retirement from the Parliament the retiring allowances for which they have qualified at the date of commencement of the legislation. Those not so qualified will receive an immediate refund of their contributions. 
Consistent with what is to be done with the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund as recommended by the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation, the Bill provides for the assets of the parliamentary and ministerial retiring allowances funds to be transferred to the Commonwealth. The cost of benefits will be met in future from Consolidated Revenue into which members' contributions will be paid. 
I turn now to judges' pensions. The Bill provides for the rate of pension payable to a judge on his retirement after reaching age 60 and having completed 10 years of judicial service to be increased from 50 to 60 per cent of salary. The rate payable on retirement because of ill-health is also increased to 60 per cent of salary.' In choosing a rate of 60 per cent of salary instead of the maximum of 75 per cent proposed for the parliamentary scheme the Government took into account that judges' pensions are non-contributory. 
In line with what is proposed for the parliamentary scheme, pensions, including those now payable, will be maintained at the level of the entitlements of serving judges. The Bill also contains provisions in relation to postretirement marriages and widowers similar to those proposed for the parliamentary scheme. The rate of pension payable to a widow or widower will remain at five-eighths of the judge's pension. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
in reply - I am sorry I was not able to be here during the whole of the debate but I thank those honourable members who have taken part in it. I will make some inquiries about the point raised by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I refer to clause 50 which reads in part:  50. (1) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears - 
In this Part, a reference to a body corporate being associated with another body corporate is a reference to a body corporate that is related to the other body corporate and - 
carries on insurance business; 
is, or has directors who are, accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of the other body corporate or of its directors; or 
is, or has directors who are, accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of the other body corporate or of its directors. 
I move: 
In clause  50,  omit sub-clause  (2),  substitute the  following  sub-clause: 
For the. purposes of this Part,  a  body  cor  porate  is  associated with another body, corporate  if  the two bodies corporate are related to each  other  and - 
the first-mentioned body corporate carries on insurance business; or 
either of those bodies corporate is, or  has  directors who are, accustomed or under  an  obligation, whether formal or informal, to  act  in accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of the other body corporate or of its directors, and references in this Part to a body corporate having been associated with another body corporate shall be construed accordingly.'. 
This amendment is the result of a drafting error in clause 50.(2) which defines an associated company for the purposes of Part V. As honourable members are aware, this is a very complicated measure and this error was not revealed until scrutiny after the printing of the Bill. It is entirely technical by nature. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
Third Reading 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Crean)  - by leave - read a third time. 
I am afraid that I still have not heard the question clearly. But it sounded as though it was in the realm of my colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise. 
I suggest that the honourable member put the question on the notice paper, and I will give him a considered reply. 
My attention has been drawn to the Press reports referred to by the honourable member for Adelaide. According to those reports, Abbey Capital Property Finance Ltd is seeking up to $25m from the Australian public through a debenture issue, the proceeds of which are to be used to fund the group's existing property development program in Australia. It is said also that Abbey Capital Property Finance Ltd was incorporated earlier this year to act as a borrowing corporation for the Abbey Capital group, whose major shareholders are Crown Agents for Overseas Governments and Administrations, and Capital and Counties Property Co. Ltd of the United Kindom. I issued a Press statement on 20 March. As part of the whole question of foreign ownership and control, the purchase of real estate in Australia by overseas interests is under study by the Government at present. The subject is a complex one and the study will take a little time to complete. The Reserve Bank of Australia is not normally granting exchange control approvals that might be needed in connection with proposed foreign investment in real estate, but it would appear from reports that exchange control approval would not be involved in this company's present activities. In addition, there are no restrictions on borrowings in Australia by overseas controlled companies. However, if the Abbey company envisages applying the proceeds of the debenture issue to further significant property development, I would point out that I said in my statement of 20 March that it is the wish of the Government that overseas interests should not enter into significant commitments for real estate purchases for the time being. I confirm that now. 
Pursuant to section 134 of the Superannuation Act I present the fiftieth annual report of the Superannuation Board for the year ended 30  June  1972. 
 I am aware of the valuable work that the Committee for Economic Development of Australia has done in Australia for a considerable number of years around the subject of economic development, and I think that what the honourable member has referred to is an indication of further initiative on its part. I will instruct my officers - and I hope that other Ministers might instruct officers of their various departments - to participate in that venture. Once more, I congratulate CEDA on the initiative that it is showing. 
I refer to clause 22 which reads in part: 
If- 
a person has qualified, subject only to his ceasing to be entitled to a parliamentary allowance and his ministerial salary (if any) otherwise than by reason of his death, to be paid a retiring alowance under section 19a of the Principal Act; and 
the person qualifies, subject only to his ceasing  to be entitled to a parliamentary allowance otherwise than by his death, to be paid a retiring allowance under section 19a of the Principal Act by reason of having held the office of Prime Minister, -he is thereupon entitled to a refund of his contributions, and no other benefit is payable under Part  Va  of the Principal Act to or in respect of him. 
I move the following amendment: 
In clause 22, omit sub-clause (13), substitute the following sub-clause: 
If a person has qualified, subject only to his ceasing to be entitled to a parliamentary allowance and his ministerial salary (if any) otherwise than by reason of his death, to be paid a retiring allowance under section 22h of the Principal Act and - 
within three months after the commencement of this Act, the person elects, by writing under his band addressed to the Trust; that this subsection should apply to him; or 
the person qualifies, subject only to his ceasing  to be entitled to a parliamentary allowance  otherwise than by reason of his death, to be paid a retiring allowance under section 19a of the Principal Act by reason of having held the office of Prime Minister, he is thereupon entitled to a refund of his contributions, and no other benefit is payable under Part  Va  of the Principal Act to or in respect of him.'. 
The purpose of the amendment is to give to those members who are qualified to receive a ministerial retiring allowance on their retire ment from the Parliament the alternative of taking a refund of their contributions to the Ministerial Retiring Allowances Fund. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report - by leave - adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of taxable individuals who were allowed concessional deductions for education expenses included in the 1969-70 income year statistical tabulations was 1,311,763. The statistics for the 1970-71 income year indicate that an additional $83m of income tax would have been payable by taxable individuals whose assessments were included in the 1970-71 statistics if deductions for education expenses had not been allowed for that year. Statistics of the number of taxpayers who were allowed education deductions for the 1970-71 income year are not available. 
to (5) Income tax statistics of deductions for education expenses are not classified by the type of school, college, etc attended by the children in respect of whom the deductions are allowed. 
On 1 May 1973 the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  asked me a question without notice concerning a recent offer by Australian Guarantee Corporation Limited of an unsecured note, repayable on demand and carrying an interest rate of 6 per cent per annum. In the course of my reply I stated that I would call for a report about the matter. 
I am informed that the offer referred to by the honourable member was contained in a prospectus issued by AGC and dated 26 April 1973 to raise $10m, plus over-subscriptions of a further $10m, by the issue of unsecured notes, repayable at call after 3 months. The features of the prospectus included: 
A maximum total 'at call' holding of $50,000 per investor; 
A minimum investment and withdrawal of $200; 
Investments to carry an interest rate of 6 per cent per annum for periods of 3 months or over; after 3 months investments to be repayable at call. However, investments to be withdrawable- within the first 3 months with interest payable at reduced rates. Interest on investments up to  1  month to be paid at 4 per cent per annum and up to 3 months at 5 per cent per annum. Interest in all cases to be calculated on a daily balance; 
Investments to be redeemable through any office of AGC or - if the noteholder is also a customer of the Bank of New South Wales - at any branch of that bank; 
Noteholders to rank ahead of shareholders in the event of liquidation. 
I understand that the 'at call' issue by AGC is not unique. There have been instances where public prospectuses of finance companies have offered repayment on demand or at very short call. Private placements of call money have also taken place. It is unusual, however, to feature separately such an issue. 
On the question of a potential substantial movement of funds away from the savings banks - which are the principal sources of low interest funds for housing and a major source for Government borrowings - to finance companies, the predominant rates of interest paid by savings banks on ordinary accounts, repayable on demand, are 3¾ per cent per annum on amounts up to $4,000 and 4¼ per cent per annum on amounts over $4,000 up to $20,000 with interest being calculated on minimum monthly balances. The rate paid on savings bank investment accounts, repayable on 3 months' notice, is 5 per cent per annum subject to an interest-bearing limit of $50,000. However, the minimum investment and withdrawal limit of $200 would make the AGC notes unattractive to many savings bank depositors. Moreover, the superior status of savings banks, as banks subject to the Banking Act and whose deposits are trustee investments, could be a partial offset to the higher interest rates offered by AGC and other non-bank financial institutions. It might also be mentioned that, while the Bank of New South Wales holds 51 per cent of the paid-up ordinary capital of AGC, I am informed that the bank does not guarantee or have any other financial obligations towards AGC debenture stockholders or noteholders. 
Among other financial institutions, the range of interest rates paid for similar periods is quite wide. For example, while the trading banks offer 4.3 per cent per annum for fixed deposits under $50,000 lodged for 3 to 12 months, the rates on trading banks' negotiable certificates of deposit, with a minimum deposit of $50,000, are approaching 6 per cent per  annum for 3 months to 6 months money. In most States building societies are currently offering 6 per cent to  6½  per cent per annum on funds which are lodged at no specified term. 
As I intimated in my reply to the honourable member on 1 May, the potential implications of raisings of a kind similar to the recent offer by Australian Guarantee Corporation will be taken fully into account in the detailed study currently being undertaken by the Treasury and the Reserve Bank on the various aspects of the regulation of the finaning activities of non-bank financial intermedaries. 
I think the honourable member misconstrues altogether the role of this Prices Justification Tribunal. Whether these particular prices have risen or not - and I submit that they rose during the long period of Liberal rule in this country - at least Post Office charges, one area of increase cited by the honourable member, are the subject of examination in this House already. What the Prices Justification Tribunal is to do is to cover those price makers who, at the moment, have no scrutiny whatever of a public kind of their actions. 
As the former Minister should know, at this stage I can make no comment. These are matters of policy yet to be decided. 
As I indicated in an answer to an earlier question, it is not possible at this stage for me to give details of changes, one way or the other, in a tax or in all taxes. In regard to the specific question whether changes will be made before the Asprey Committee makes its determinations, I cannot give that guarantee either. The Asprey Committee will be concerned with such fundamental propositions as whether the existing form of sales tax, for argument's sake, should be replaced by a value added tax and whether we should explore the interesting realms of capital gains taxation or net worth taxation. All sorts of interesting possibilities are there. I think it is regrettable in many ways that these areas were not explored 10 years ago. 
1 would ask the honourable member to look closely at what was said in the second reading speech on the Bill which my colleague quite properly said is now before the House for debate. The purpose of the amendment basically is to close a loophole whereby what had been given as a tax concession for legitimate purposes was being abused. Basically the premiums on any policy which is taken out after 1 January 1973 for less than 10 years will not be allowed as a tax concession. This does not apply to superannuation fund payments. If the honourable member reads the second reading speech he  "111  find that that is quite clearly set out. 
Again I point out that we inherited three-quarters of the anticipated deficit to 30 June 1973. 
It is true. 
It is true. The previous Government was budgeting for a deficit of $630m and it had second thoughts after the Budget was introduced. That brought in additional expenditures. We began in December to add the things that we thought were - (Opposition members interjecting) - 
Well, if honourable members opposite think that age pensions ought not to have been increased, let us hear them say so. If they think it would have been better to have 150,000 people out of work instead of 80,000 let them say so. One of the things we continued and are being asked to continue is rural unemployment relief and its extension into metropolitan areas. One can be very clever about the marginal $l60m in an overall expenditure of S 10,800m and say that that is the straw that is breaking the camel's back, as it were. This Government is conscious of the role of government expenditure in the totality of the economy. It is conscious that inflation is a serious problem. I repeat that it is not a new problem. However, very few attempts were made to grapple with it prior to 2 December. 1 am astonished now by the zeal of supporters of the former government as to what they would have done had they had another 12 months as against what they did not do in nearly 23 years. 
As usual there has been a lot of loose talk about the results of the May loan. 
I have to put up with a lot of dull comments from honourable members opposite, but I am used to that. I shall repeat some information which perhaps has not been noted, that is, that no cash loan was undertaken in May of last year when the previous Government was in office. In May 1971 a loan was raised in the rather abnormal circumstances of a very depressed economy. The sum of Si 97m was contributed. But if one were to take into consideration what were average periods- 1968, 1969 and 1970 - one would see that the average raised over those 3 loans was $76. 6m. On that sort of comparison the May loan was satisfactory enough. 
If the Leader of the Opposition believes that interest rates are too high, I suggest that he make some sort of exhortation to those bodies in the community on which there is no restraint at the moment and which are offering 9 per cent and  9i  per cent for short term money. Those who are concerned about inflation at least ought to acknowledge, as was acknowledged in a question asked of me earlier this morning, that there are other costs besides wages. What do honourable members opposite think is the reality of the situation when the interest rate structure goes up from 6 per cent to 6i per cent on government bonds? Is that an increase of only half a per cent or is it an increase of about 8 per cent if interest is regarded as the price for money? If the Opposition wants to co-operate with me in, perhaps, calling for a moratorium on interest rates, I will be happy to listen to any suggestions. But to suggest in isolation that I should tell honourable members now what I think the loan situation may be in July would, I think, bc highly irresponsible. I am sure the former Prime Minister thinks so and I hope he will tell his former Treasurer that. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the International Monetary Agreement Act 1947, I present the report on the operations of that Act and on the operations insofar as they relate to Australia of the International Monetary Fund and of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the year ended 30 June 1 972. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
In introducing this amendment in the Senate the Government took into account various representations it had received concerning the Prices Justification Bill. The Government recognised when it introduced the Bill that there could be room for improvement as the Bill broke new ground and we could not be certain that it would meet all eventualities. The amendment proposed will enable the Prices Justification Tribunal to exempt a company or companies, either generally or otherwise, from the requirement to notify the Tribunal of proposed price increases and proposed prices for new products, and to refrain from implementing the proposed new prices for up to 21 days. The provision for exemption 'generally or otherwise' means that a company may be exempted in respect of all goods and services in which it deals, or in relation to particular goods or services or classes of goods or services. This will provide scope for overcoming a potential problem for companies such as department stores, and no doubt some manufacturers, selling many thousands of products of many kinds. There could be a large administrative problem for such companies and for the Tribunal if a price clearance had to be obtained for every one of the great number of items handled by such companies. There could also be problems if the companies had to refrain from putting the goods on sale until a price clearance was obtained from the Tribunal. There would be a particular problem in relation to perishable goods, such as meat, poultry and vegetables, which are seasonal goods whose prices vary frequently, and which would be unsaleable if sales were delayed for up to 21 days. The proposed amendment would exempt the company or companies concerned only from the requirement to notify new prices and not implement them for 21 days. It would not exempt such companies from the Act as a whole; the Tribunal would still have the power to inquire into their prices if it so wished. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
I think I have indicated for quite a long time my intention that any gain actually realised during the course of  a  12 months period should be treated like any other gain, lt is income - something that comes in - and it ought to be taxed. There is no suggestion that this encompasses  a  domestic residence. Surely people do not buy and sell domestic residences in the course of 12 months. If they do so they would probably be regarded as property speculators and they ought to be taxed on any enhancement. 
Mi CREAN - I want to say something about the position of people moving  interstate.  I would like  to  give honourable members  the  mythical example of one of the gentlemen in the Press gallery who might be working in Melbourne and buys a block  of land  or bouse somewhere in that city  and then  thai most faceless of creatures, the editor,  Bends  him to Canberra. 
I think they are very faceless men who sometimes try to think they are a window on the world. I would regard such a case as one where I would not include the proceeds of the sale of the house as income. 
Yes, provided there was aa indication that there was a reason for the selling of the domestic premises other than to make a profit. 
I must confess to being completely surprised by this question, firstly because of the source from which it came and, secondly, because it ought to have been addressed to my colleague, the PostmasterGeneral. 
Again, I must say that 1 cannot give any previews upon the Budget. I simply indicate that one should not think, merely because there is an array of complicated problems and the social inequities that one finds in the management of an economy, that they sometimes be regarded independently of what might be thought to be the aggregate effect on inflation. 
 in reply - Before this amendment is put to a vote I should like to thank honourable members on both sides of the House for the interesting debate on this very intricate piece of law, particularly that section which deals with the amendment to private company law. I indicate to the spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  that we intend to accept the Opposition's amendment in the Committee stage. I also have a technical amendment that I want to make to the Bill. But I thank honourable members who have participated in this debate for the way in which it has been conducted. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 23  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 24. 
In relation to assessments in respect of income of the year of income that commenced on 1st July, 1972, sub-section 80b (2) of the Principal Act has effect as if a reference in that sub-section to the allotment of shares in a company did not include a reference to an allotment that took place after 1 1th April, 1973. 
 I move the following amendment: 
After sub-clause (3), insert the following sub-clause: (3a) In relation to assessments in respect of income of the year of income that commenced on 1st July, 
1972- 
sub-sections 80b (9) and 80da (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act have effect as if the references in those sub-sections to sub-section 80a (5) of that Act as so amended were references to sub-section 80a (2) of the Principal Act; and 
section 80da of the Principal Act as amended by this Act has effect for the purposes of the application of that section in relation to a loss, or a part of a loss, incurred by a company as if a reference in that section to continuing shareholders in the company were - 
in a case to which sub-paragraphs (ii) and (iii) do not apply - a reference to persons referred to in sub-section 80a (1) of the Principal Act; 
if section 80c of the Principal Act applies for the purpose of determining whether the loss, or the part of the loss, is to be taken into account for the purposes of section 80 or section 80aa of that Act - a reference to persons referred to in paragraph 80c (1) (b) of the Principal Act; or 
if section 80d of the Principal Act applies in relation to section 80a of that Act for the purpose of determining whether the loss, or the part of the loss, is to be so taken into account - a reference to persons referred to in sub-section 80a (1) of the Principal Act as affected by section 80d of that Act.' 
It is proposed by the Bill that the requirements of the 'continuing ownership test' that applies in determining whether a company may be allowed a deduction for a prior year's loss be replaced by more stringent requirements in relation to the 1973-74 income year and subsequent years. It is proposed also to reinforce this test with safeguarding provisions to apply first for the 1972-73 year to ensure that it is not circumvented by devices designed to defeat its application. Through inadvertence, the proposed safeguarding provisions may not in all cases apply as intended in relation to the 1972-73 income year. In certain circumstances they may be inapplicable and in others they may apply to deny a deduction that ought to be allowable. The amendment is intended to change the transitional provisions of the Bill to remedy this defect, and will ensure that the safeguards apply as evenly in relation to the current year as in relation to future years. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
 As has been indicated, the Government accepts this amendment. I regard that as being a sign that the Government does not believe, as did some other governments, that all wisdom lies on one side of the chamber. In matters of this kind contributions can be made from both sides of 'the chamber. While I am not aware of any actual cases of difficulty, as I have already said in reply to other representations I am prepared to give careful consideration to the circumstances of particular cases insofar as that is possible. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments, report - by leave - adopted. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Honourable Member's question is in similar terms to one I asked of the former Treasurer on 22 August 1972. I refer the Honourable Member to the information provided by the then Treasurer in reply to this question (Hansard p. 3484 of 26 October 1972). 
An examination of the matter is being made. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Honourable Member's question is similar to one I asked of the former Treasurer on 22 August 1972. I refer the Honourable Member to the information provided by the then Treasurer in reply to this question (Hansard p. 2735 of 17 October 1972). No examination of the nature suggested has been carried out 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question. 
Estimates of the average number of married women and other females in the civilian labour force in each year from 1964 to 1972, derived from the quarterly population survey, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question. 
Estimates of the average number of persons employed part-time In each year from 1970 to 1972, derived from (he quarterly population survey, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question is expressed in similar terms to questions asked of former Treasurers by the present Prime Minister, the latest occasion being 15 August 1972. I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the then Treasurer in reply to the latest of these questions (Hansard page 3426 of 26 October 1972). There have been no further decisions of the court affecting this matter adversely to the Commonwealth. 
I am examining the possibility of amendments to the estate duly and gift duty laws in the light of advice I have received from the Commissioner of Taxation and I hope to be in a position to announce the government's intentions to honourable members before very long. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question is expressedin similar terms to questions asked of former Treasurers by the present Prime Minister, the latest occasion being 15 August 1972. I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the then Treasurer in reply to the latest of these questions (see Hansard, page 3426 of 26 October 1972). There have been no further decisions of the court affecting this matter adversely to the Commonwealth. The recent decision of the High Court in the case of Ord Forrest Pty Ltd v. Federal Commissioner of Taxation has substantially reduced the loss of revenue resulting from the decision in Gorton's case. 
I am examining the possibility of amendments to the estate duty and gift duty laws in the light of advice I have received from the Commissioner of Taxation and I hope to be in a position to announce the government's intentions to honourable members before very long. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following table, which presents the details requested for the years 1967-68 to 1970-71 inclusive, 1970-71 being the latest year for which' this information is available. 
The collection of data which formed the basis of the information given by my predecessor on 31 May 1972 (Hansard, page 3430) has been discontinued. The following table has been prepared on a basis not comparable with the former information. These new figures, which are consistent with figures for local authorities presented in the Bureau publication 'Public Authority Finance - State and Local Authorities' (Ref. No. 5.43), are regarded as more accurately reflecting the charge that debt servicing makes against current receipts of local authorities. In particular, redemptions which were previously included in debt charges have been excluded because these are normally regarded as an offset to new loan raisings rather than as a charge against revenue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided information of expenditure by State Governments from their own resources on pre-school education during the years 1970-71 and 1971-72, which is set out in Table 1 below. The figures for 1970-71 contain amendments to information provided previously in answer to a question asked by  Mr Whitlam  (Hansard 31 May 1972, page 3444). 
In addition to the amounts spent by State Governments from their own resources on pre-school education, State Governments spend grants made available by the Australian Government under the States Grants (Pre-school Teachers Colleges) Act 1968. Details of these amounts, again provided by the Statistician, are set out in Table 2. 
Details of expenditure on pre-schoolsin the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, also provided by the Statistician, are given in Table 3. 
The honourable member's attention is drawn to the comments on the figures which accompanied the answer given to  Mr Whitlam  on this subject by my predecessor (Hansard, 12 June 1970, page 3682). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) It would not be appropriate to provide the names of the companies involved in all foreign takeover proposals coming to the Government's attention because in some cases confidential information is involved. 
Information relating to the administration of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972 covering the period referred to by the honourable member is contained in my press statements of 23 February, 20 March and 6 April 1973 (Treasury press releases Nos 10, 15 and 21). These statements contain the names of companies in cases where confidentiality is not involved. 
Under the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972, action to prevent consummation of a particular takeover proposal is subject to the Government being satisfied that it would result in effective control of the 'target' company being transferred from Australian to overseas interests and that this would be contrary to the national interest. Accordingly, these are the bases on which individual takeover proposals are considered so far as the taking of action under the Act is concerned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) On 6 February 1973 the Minister for Primary Industry announced that emergency adjustment assistance would be given to certain fruitgrowing industries, and indicated the criteria to be used in the consideration of submissions by other rural industries for revaluation adjustment assistance. In a further statement on 20 February 1973 the Minister indicated that submissions from rural industries claiming to have been seriously affected by the devaluation of the United States dollar would likewise be considered on the basis of those criteria. A submission from the Australian Wheat Board is currently receiving consideration. In his statement of 6 February the Minister indicated that the Government would also be considering longer-term measures for industries such as dairying which were not experiencing difficulties but for which problems of adjustment were clearly in prospect. The Minister also indicated in that statement that industries which currently were prosperous and structurally sound would be considered for assistance if potential difficulties eventuated. On this basis, the question of whether any assistance should be given to the sugar industry would be a matter for future consideration if potential difficulties should eventuate. 
On 10 April 1973 the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry announced details of Government assistance to exporters of manufactured goods affected by the December 1972 revaluation of the Australian dollar. Applications, including applications from any eligible exporters of motor vehicles and related products, would be considered on the basis of the criteria referred to bythe Minister in his announcement of 10 April 1973. Application forms will be available shortly from the regional offices of the Department of Overseas Trade. With regard to the mineral industries, representations which have been made by some companies are being examined. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the basis of figures presented in the Australian Government's Submission to the National Wage Case hearing, the annual cost of the total wage increase is estimated to be between $850m and $l,010m, depending on the extent of flow to wages and salaries not under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In its Reasons for Decision the Commission relied on these estimates in stating that the cost of the total wage increase would be 'not less than$850m. Because of data limitations and other uncertainties it is very difficult to provide a reasonable approximation of the cost of the minimum wage increase; however, in a recent answer to a Question on Notice in the Senate (Question No. 247, Hansard, 23 May 1973, pages 1901-1902), the Department of Labour was cited as having estimated the total annual cost at approximately $42m. 
Again, on the basis of the Australian Government's Submission, the total wage increases would add from about 4 to 41/2 per cent to the national wages and salaries bill. The minimum wage decision, on the Department of Labour's estimate, cited in (1) above, would add about 0.2 per cent 
The increase in income tax, in a full year and at present rates of personal income tax, that would be payable as a result of increases in the national wages and salaries bill on the basis of the estimates set out in (1) and (2) above is estimated at between $260m and $300m. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not given consideration to this proposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It would not be appropriate to provide the names of all companies concerned in foreign takeover proposals considered under the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972, because in many cases information has been provided confidentially. Information relating to the administration of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972 from 5 December 1972 is contained in my press statements of 23 February, 20 March, 6 April and 7 May 1973 (Treasury press releases Nos. 10, 15, 21 and 31 respectively). These statements contain the names of companies in respect of which interim or final orders have been issued in cases where confidentiality is not involved. 
As at 25 May 1973, 49 proposals were under consideration. 
-In answer to the first part of the question, as the honourable member knows the present Government closely scrutinises the entry of any capita] to Australia from overseas. We have guidelines regarding particular sources. We deny access entirely in certain other areas. We have the variable deposit scheme to act as a barrier generally. I suggest that in view of the nature of the question I will treat it as a question on notice and give a fuller reply later. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In doing so I present the Budget for 1973-74. 
Since taking office nine months ago the Government has acted energetically to implement many of its election undertakings. Many major spending proposals of the Government's program had of course to wait for the Budget and are now included in it. The task of the Budget, however, is to reconcile the Government's determination to carry out the whole of its program with wise management of the economy. This we have done. 
If wisdom had been displayed before I might not have been here. This Budget incorporates far more decisions than any previous Budget and therefore it will take longer to read. Its overriding theme is one of reform. It is designed both to clear the decks for progress in the years ahead and to ensure that in major areas of concern- social welfare, education, the quality of urban life- real forward moves are made immediately. 
-Yes, and the honourable member will be able to judge how much of a leak it was. He will find that it would not have mattered much if it had been left on the tram.  His  report, which makes no specific recommendations on individual outlay or tax items, was used by the Government as a working document in our task of balancing existing expenditures with the requirements of our own program. It is being published with the Budget papers. Why people cannot contain their patience about what is in or is not in a Budget until the night of presentation is beyond my comprehension. 
In a buoyant and strongly growing economy, with inflationary pressures intense, we are limited by the over-riding need to bring down a Budget which does not add to these pressures. 
I do not suggest that we can aim, through the Budget, to do the whole job of curbing inflation. Rather, we aim to attack rising prices by a series of inter-related measures. 
We have already taken some far-reaching steps. The Prices Justification Tribunal is now in operation. In December 1972 we acted to appreciate the Australian dollar and thereby restrain price increases. We have cut all protective tariffs by one quarter. The report leading to that decision is being published with the Budget papers. The flood of borrowed overseas funds in 1972 which helped to build up the inflationary pressures now so evident has been stopped. We have acted to reduce excess liquidity. 
The Budget too must fit into the overall antiinflationary policy. With that in mind the Government came to two major conclusions. 
First, despite competing demands for resources, the whole thesis of the Government's policies requires that there be some increase in the share of resources going to the public sector. (Opposition members interjecting)- 
-Honourable members opposite can indicate which ones they would like to cut down on. 
-Listen carefully. After all, this was suggested by yourselves. At least honourable members opposite can begin to see how it is to be implemented. There are others outside this 
House who may want to listen. Unless age pensions are taxable, aged persons on higher incomes would be put in a privileged position by comparison not only with pensioners on lower incomes, but also with people below pensionable age on equivalent or smaller incomes and paying tax on the whole of that income. It is necessary, however, in introducing taxation of age pensions, to ensure that pensioners in the lower ranges are not disadvantaged. The Government proposes therefore that age pensions should become taxable but that special steps be taken to protect those wholly or largerly dependent on pensions from detriment. 
The existing age allowance cannot do this. Indeed, the age allowance has been anomalous ever since the introduction of the tapered means test and we propose to abolish it with effect from the beginning of this income year. The Government proposes that all pensions, excluding supplementary payments, paid under the social security legislation to people of pensionable age, including wives of age pensioners, will be taxable. Equivalent pensions paid under the Repatriation legislation to people of age pension age, but not war pensions, will also be subject to tax. A basic tax rebate of $156 will be given in 1973-74 to aged people. This will ensure that persons wholly or largerly dependent on pensions will not have to pay any tax. The rebate will reduce by 25 cents in the $1 for each dollar of taxable income in excess of $2,236 and will be limited to the amount of tax otherwise payable. The rebate will be phased out as it serves its purpose. 
Home Care Programs for the Aged 
We propose to increase subsidy payments by the Australian Government under the States Grants (Home Care) Act from one-half to twothirds of State expenditure on such services. It will be a condition of this additional assistance that a State's own expenditure be not reduced below its present level. 
We propose, in addition, to double the Australian Government's present contribution towards the capital cost of senior citizens centres to $2 for every $ 1 contributed by a State Government or local governing body, and we will increase from one-half to two-thirds the Australian Government's contribution towards the salaries of welfare officers employed at such centres. 
The basic rate of subsidy paid to 'mealsonwheels' services under the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act will be increased from 15 cents to 20 cents per meal. The increased subsidy will become payable from 1 January 1974 and will apply retrospectively to meals delivered since 1 January 1973. To facilitate the financial arrangements of 'meals-on-wheels' organisations we will, from 1974 onwards, make payments to them on a quarterly rather than an annual basis. 
The present rate of subsidy to eligible organisations providing personal care services for the aged in approved hostel accommodation will be increased from $10 to $12 per week for each resident aged 80 years or more. The same subsidy will be paid also in respect of residents of approved hostels who though not yet 80 years of age require and are receiving approved personal care services. 
-If honourable members opposite will listen they will see that we do not do things suddenly and that what we put back is better than what we take away. 
Grants will continue to be paid on homes contracted to be bought or built, or to be commenced by an owner-builder, on or before 31 December 1976, by persons who have commenced to save in the prescribed manner before this announcement. This will give those who have only recently commenced to save for the grant time to complete their three years saving and to acquire a home. 
Housing in the Territories 
We are providing a net $38.6m for housing in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory in 1973-74, nearly 40 per cent more than last year. The Government has decided that there is no longer justification for concessional rentals for government housing in the Territories, including housing provided through the Northern Territory Housing Commission. Full economic rentals will apply to government housing in the Territories from the earliest date practicable. As a first step, pending that, the present maximum rental of $15 per week paid by public servants in the Northern Territory will be increased to $25. Special assistance will continue to be given to needy tenants of Government houses in both Territories. 
-I will come to that, if you will be patient. 
-I will tell the honourable member if he is quiet and listens. I am sure he is capable of listening even if he is not capable of acting. There are a number of tax concessions for the mining industry, the original purposes of which have vanished. At present, all profits from gold mining. 20 per cent of the profits from mining certain prescribed minerals, and income derived by prospectors from the sale of mining rights are exempt. In addition, dividends paid out of those categories of exempt income and dividends, up to the level of deductible capital expenditures, paid out of profits from the sale of oil and natural gas, are exempt. The exemptions of profits from gold mining and 20 per cent of profits from mining prescribed minerals will be withdrawn commencing with this income year. 
Income from the sale, after today, of mining rights, and dividends in the categories I have mentioned which are declared after today, will not be exempt. 
There is a variety of concessions subsidising capital expenditures or encouraging otherwise uneconomic investment that the Government has decided to end. 
The investment allowances for manufacturing and primary production plant allow a deduction of 20 per cent of the cost of the plant over and above normal depreciation, so that 120 per cent of the cost is deductible over the life of the plant. These allowances will not apply to expenditure incurred after today except where it is incurred under a contract already entered into and, in the case of manufacturing plant, is incurred by 30 June 1975. 
Some capital expenditures by primary producers are wholly deductible in the year in which they are incurred, while others are subject to accelerated depreciation over five years. The deductions unduly favour those benefiting, and are seized upon by some, including 'Pitt Street farmers', to avoid tax. They can lead to resources being channelled into uneconomic activity and, in the process, may have questionable environmental consequences. 
The concessions will not apply to expenditures incurred after today unless under a contract already entered into. In future, deductions will be allowed as ordinary depreciation for plant and structures, and over ten years for other items. 
I turn now to certain major anomalies in the rates of tax levied on particular classes of companies. The general public company tax rate is 47.5 per cent, but private companies, life insurance companies and certain other companies pay less on some or all of their income. The differentials involved arose on no grounds of principle- indeed, there are no reasons why private and public companies should not be treated alike so far as the company tax rate is concerned. The differentials will be removed except in the case of co-operative and non-profit companies. 
This will mean that, with the exceptions mentioned, the lower rate of tax on the first $10,000 of income will be abolished. Its existence encourages tax avoidance by means of company splitting. Mutual income of life insurance companies, which except for the first $10,000 of income has been taxed at 42.5 per cent, will be taxed at 47.5 per cent immediately, to apply in respect of 1972-73 income. A consequential change will be made to the rates on the 1973-74 investment income of a superannuation fund that does not observe the 30/20 rule. Private companies will pay tax on the whole of their 1 972-73 taxable income at a rate of 45 per cent. For subsequent years they will be taxed at the public company rate. 
The Government proposes two other changes in the basis on which life insurance companies are taxed. Life insurance companies pay remarkably little tax in all of the relevant circumstances. Their taxable income is assessed on a most generous basis. A special deduction frees from tax an amount of income equal to 3 percent of calculated liabilities, and the rebate of tax on dividends confers an over-generous benefit. In respect of 1973-74 incomes the special deduction will be reduced from 3 per cent to 2 per cent of calculated liabilities, and the amount of dividends subject to rebate will be diminished by an appropriate part of the deductions allowed for calculated liabilities and expenses of general management. 
The income tax deduction for private rates and land tax, which now has no upper limit, will be subject to a ceiling of $300 commencing with the income year 1973-74 and will be available only for a principal place of residence. 
It is proposed to remove deductibility for gifts to war memorial funds, a concession that has been widely exploited. Gifts to appeals already launched will be deductible for 1973-74 but no deductions will be allowed thereafter. 
There exists a remarkable anomaly in the basis of valuation of trading stock manufactured from grapes. A special provision permits a winemaker to value such stock for taxation purposes at any figure he chooses, provided only that it is no less than certain prescribed minimum values that have not been increased since the provision was introduced in 1953. A substantial deferral of tax results. The economic condition of the industry- including the transfer of a large part of it to foreign ownership-has changed markedly since 1953. If there ever was a case for a special basis of valuation it no longer exists. The provision will be repealed, and valuation in accordance with the general provisions of the law will be phased in by three annual steps starting with end- 1 973-74 valuations. 
I turn now to the area of sales tax. The exemption from sales tax on non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing not less than 5 per cent of Australian fruit juice will be abolished, with effect from tomorrow. 
If the honourable gentleman will listen I will tell him why this has been done. The ostensible purpose of the exemption is to enlarge the market for fruit grown in Australia. As such, it is a classic case of using the wrong instruments to achieve an objective. Of the $25m a year which the exemption costs, only a fraction finds its way to the fruitgrowers. In abolishing the exemption the Government stands ready to provide such funds as may be necessary to assist with the reconstruction of any sectors of the fruitgrowing industry that may be affected. 
Several of our decisions designed to correct shortcomings in the taxation system affect customs and excise duties. Two of them merely bring the application of duties into line with current technology and paractice. They are a reduction in the wastage allowance on imported tobacco leaf to levels approximating present day actual wastage, and an increase in the specified dutiable contents of standard bulk beer containers to the actual average fills which are larger, now that stainless steel containers are widely used, than they once were. Both of these changes will take effect from tomorrow. 
They are just technical changes to measure honestly the real tobacco content and the real beer content of the keg. 
It has also been decided to abolish the difference in the rates of duty on brandy and on other spirits by raising the duty on brandy in three equal annual steps, commencing tomorrow. The differential, which was introduced in 1953-54 as an emergency measure, is anomalous and provides the industry with an advantage over its domestic competitors which cannot be justified. 
It has been decided- for you world travellersto reduce the very generous duty free concessions on cigarettes, tobacco and liquor for passengers arriving in Australia. As from 1 October 1973 they will become 200 cigarettes or 250 grams of tobacco, or an equivalent quantity of cigars, and one litre of liquor. 
We have also taken some decisions affecting taxation in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. The rate of pay-roll tax in both territories will be increased from 2 1  12  per cent to the present State level of 3 1/2 per cent from 1 September 1973, and from 1 July 1974 to the projected State level of 4 1  II  per cent. Stamp duties in the Northern Territory will be increased to the levels ruling in the Australian Capital Territory. There will be increases in drivers licence and motor vehicle registration fees in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The increased revenue arising from the decisions I have announced so far will go some way towards providing the additional revenue required in 1973-74 and towards financing our continuing programs in later years. I reiterate however that the primary objective of these decisions is not one of short-term revenue raising. It is to remove the accumulated distortions in the structure of the revenue system. The waste, economic injustice and misdirection of resources involved have not only hindered economic growth but have also given rise to much resentment as taxes generally have had to rise to offset the erosion of the tax base. 
Other Structural Measures 
The Government proposes two other measures, in the income tax area, not primarily for their revenue yield but to improve the tax structure. 
First, the law relating to taxation of casual profits from the resale of property will be amended to increase certainty and reduce abuseWhere real or personal property is disposed of within twelve months of acquisition any profits made will generally be treated as assessable income of the taxpayer. An important exeption will be made to meet the case of a taxpayer who sells his residence in consequence of changing his place of employment. For disposal outside the twelve-month period the ordinary law will apply. The special provisions inserted last year in relation to share transactions will be repealed. The new provisions will apply to property acquired after today. Full details will be available when the legislation is introduced. 
Secondly, in this year we shall commence to move towards a system for collecting company tax by quarterly instalments. This will serve a dual purpose of reducing inequity and improving economic management. The large seasonal swings in monetary liquidity associated with the concentration of company tax payments in the last quarter of the financial year are a hindrance to economic management. A more even spread of such payments would improve matters considerably. The move to quarterly payments will be phased in over three years, commencing in 1973-74. This year, one instalment of 25 per cent of tax will be payable before 1 January 1974, the balance being payable by the ordinary due date. This measure is thus concerned with the timing rather than amount of tax paid by companies. 
Other Revenue Measures 
Despite the revenue arising from these decisions, further revenue measures are needed. Personal income tax paid in 1973-74 is estimated to rise by $ 1,089m or close to 27 per cent. Even apart from the Policy Speech statement on income tax rates this fact militates against looking to personal income taxation for even more revenue. Companies particularly will be affected by several of the more important decisions I have already announced, as well as, in some sectors, by our tariff reduction decisions. It is therefore not proposed to take any further revenue-raising measures in that area. Those which we propose are in the field of customs and excise. 
The increasing usage of motor vehicles, including commercial vehicles, imposes heavy costs on the community. I refer not only to the costs of roads but also the costs of police, traffic control, accidents and pollution. Australia, which on a per capita basis is one of the world's most motorised nations and thus especially subject to these costs, levies comparatively low taxes on petrol. A recent OECD study indicated that, of the OECD members, only in Portugal and the United States were taxes on fuel a lower percentage of gross domestic product than in Australia. Meanwhile public transport services and urban services generally have been held back by lack of funds. 
The Government has decided to raise the bulk of the additional revenue it requires by increasing the duty on motor spirit and on aviation gas, aviation turbine fuel and diesel fuel. The increase will be equivalent to 5c a gallon in each case save diesel fuel, where the increase will be fractionally less in order to bring the duties on motor spirit and diesel fuel, which currently differ by the equivalent of 0.2c a gallon, into line. The question whether an excise duty should be levied on liquefied gas used in motor vehicles is being put under study. 
These increases will raise an estimated $130m in 1 973-74 and $ 1 5 7m in a full year. 
The duty on cigarettes, tobacco and cigars will be increased. The increases will be equivalent to 5c of duty on the average packet of 20 cigarettes. Equivalent increases in duty will apply to other tobacco products. The increased duty will raise an estimated $63m in 1 973-74 and $76m in a full year. 
The duty on potable spirits will be increased by the equivalent of about 3c a nip. This increase is estimated to yield $30m in 1973-74 and $36m in a full year. 
In total, these increases in duty, which all take effect from tomorrow, are estimated to yield $223m in 1973-74 and $268m in a full year. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise will be introducing amending legislation on these matters later this evening. 
The question of whether these increases in excise duties I have announced can be added to prices of goods cleared after today, including in the case of potable spirits the consequential increase in sales tax payable, is of course a matter for the Prices Justification Tribunal in relation to those companies subject to the Prices Justification Act. It would be a matter of concern, however, if there were attempts to profit from the increases by adding mark-ups or making other arrangements to profit from the excise increase by those outside the ambit of the Prices Justification Tribunal who are involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of the items in question. 
After allowance for the decisions we have taken it is estimated that receipts will be $ 11,481m in 1973-74. This is an increase of $ 1,960m, or 20.6 per cent, over the 1972-73 level. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains details of proposed appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1973-74 totalling $1,261,534,000 for expenditure on: 
The construction of public works and buildings; 
b ) The acquisition of sites and buildings; 
Advances and loans; 
Items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; 
Grants to the states under section 96 of the Constitution; 
New policies not authorised by special legislation. 
Included in the above total is an amount of $50m as an Advance to the Treasurer for the purposes set out in the Bill. The proposed expenditures in this Bill were dealt with as appropriate in my Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
-I present for the information of honourable members the following papers in connection with the Budget for 1 973-74: 
Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1 974. 
Payments to or for the States 1 973-74. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The sole purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the proposal announced in the Budget Speech to abolish the exemption from sales tax applicable to non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing not less than 5 per cent by volume of Australian fruit juice or its equivalent in concentrated form. The ostensible purpose of the exemption, as I mentioned earlier, is to enlarge the market for Australian fruit. While it has provided further outlets for some varieties of fruit, the additional returns to growers represent only a fraction of the cost of the exemption which is currently running at about $25 m a year. This, as I said in my Budget Speech, is a classic example of using the wrong instruments to achieve an objective. 
The Government is prepared, if the need arises, to provide funds to assist with the reconstruction of any sectors of the fruit growing industry affected by the withdrawal of the exemption. In this regard, I might mention the fruit growing reconstruction scheme which, as I indicated in the Budget Speech, is to be extended to 30 June 1974. Consequent on the withdrawal of the exemption, which will be effective on and from tomorrow, 22 August 1973, all carbonated soft drinks will be taxable at 15 percent, whether or not they contain Australian fruit juice. A memorandum explaining the provisions of the Bill is being circulated for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)Yes. 
Premises occupied by the Department of the Treasury in the States arc leased by the Department of Services and Property and are covered by the reply given by the Minister for Services and Property to Question No. 174. 
With regard to authorities, the Commonwealth Banking Corporation occupies buildings not owned by the Australian Government andfor which leasing arrangements are not made through the Department of Services aud Property. Details of the Corporation 's leases are: 
N umber of Buildings 
New South Wales-small portions of 3 buildings in Sydney (none of which is the building known as Australia Square Tower). 
Victoria- about half of one building in Melbourne. 
Range of Rentals 
New South Wales-$5.50 to $9.35 per square foot per annum. 
Victoria- $4.80 per square foot per annum. 
Average Rentals 
New South Wales-$6.93 per square foot per annum. 
Victoria- $4.80 per square foot per annum. 
In addition, the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and/or its member banks lease retail-type space at varying rentals at 248 locations throughout Australia. This space is used for banking purposes-branches, sub-branches and bank-staffed agencies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The rates of income tax which apply to a primary producer who has not elected to withdraw from- the averaging system are: 
where both the taxable income and the average income do not exceed SI 6,000, the taxable income is taxed at the average rate; 
b) where both the taxable income and the average income exceed $16,000, the tax is calculated without reference to average income; 
where the taxable income exceeds $16,000 and the average income is $16,000 or less, the first $16,000 of taxable income is taxed at the rate appropriate to the average income but the averaging system is not applied to the excess of taxable income over $ 1 6,000; and 
where the taxable income is $16,000 or less and the average income exceeds $16,000, the taxable income is taxed at the rate applicable to a taxable income of $16,000. 
No. 
3 ) The provisional tax payable is primarily an amount equal to the income tax assessed in respect of the preceding income year. Where the rates of tax for the current year are either higher or lower than the rates in force for the preceding year, the provisional tax otherwise payable is increased or decreased, as the case may be, to reflect the change in the rates declared by Parliament. 
Air Force Personnel in Singapore: Return of Home Effects (Question No. 685) 
It is true as the honourable member for Hawker says that there are vast areas of credit extending agencies outside the banking system as such. Since 1945, and even earlier under wartime regulation, it has been thought necessary to regulate the banking part, which is a decreasing part, of the total supply of credit. I have always believed also that there should be some kind of regulation of other finance extending organisations. I have indicated in this House previously that I intend as soon as possible to bring down legislation covering those other areas. I have indicated that I will hold talks first with the bodies which may be affected. The matter has been and is under extensive examination now by both the Treasury and the Reserve Bank, and I hope to be able to do something about it later this session. 
As I have said on many occasions in this House, inflation is not a peculiarly Australian disease that commenced at midnight on 2 December. It is something that prevailed in 1971 at 7 per cent, in 1972 at nearly 8 per cent, and is currently running, according to how you do your arithmetic, at something over 8i per cent. 
I was never so simple in my approach as to think only of things quarter by quarter. I had hoped that last night I demonstrated that occasionally things have to be thought of beyond the span of a year. However, I must say that I admire the zeal with which members of the current Opposition, who were in government for over 20 years, now want to approach the problems of inflation. They will have an opportunity next week in the debate on the Budget to indicate how they will co-operate in solving the problems of inflation. Meanwhile I simply put that there has to be a lot more thinking out of the implications, that public spending is not worse than private spending, and in the finish it is- 
I am coming to that. In the finish it is the aggregate that is important and what this Budget does deliberately is to shift the balance in the direction of more public spending which will go on welfare, health, housing and other sorts of things, and less on private spending. As I pointed out last night, we seem to have a greater ability to make motor cars than to provide roads, and to improve other forms of transport. We are running our building industry really beyond the capacity of the resources at the moment. At present houses are built and are not sewered. Here at least is a chance to begin to grapple with our problems. _ 
The Budget is fairly limited in itself as to what it can do about inflation because of the rigidity of what we inherited in previous expenditures. The degree of mobility possible in any one year is limited. I simply ask those people who suggest that something ought to have been done - and if they will explain to me what it is I am prepared to listen - what they would have reduced had they been framing the document. I will be interested to hear the learned replies. At least those people will have a week to consider them. Meanwhile I simply repeat that inflation is not peculiar to Australia. Some of its causes are international and some are national. It is not only wages that are responsible for it. I simply say to those on the Australian Country Party side that after all, one way of getting higher incomes for farmers is to pay higher prices for meat, and at least one has to have a sense of equity about the causes of these things. 
I present the following paper: 
Statement for the year 1972-73 of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901-1969 (Advance to the Treasurer). 
Ordered that the statement be taken into consideration in Committee of the whole House at the next sitting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Exemption of a motor vehicle under item 135 in the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act is available to a person who has served in the Defence Force or in any other armed forces of Her Majesty and who, as a result of that service: 
has lost a leg or both arms or is, for the purpose of the application in relation to him of the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act 1920-1965 (including that Act as extended to him by the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1956-1964 or the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962-1965), to be deemed to have had a leg or both arms amputated; or 
is in receipt of a special pension under the Second Schedule to the Repatriation Act as so extended to him) in respect of blindness, total and permanent incapacity or tuberculosis. 
Exemption under item 135a in the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act for a motor vehicle for use in his transportation to and from gainful employment is available to a person who has been certified by the Director-General of Social Security, or an officer appointed by him for the purpose, to have lost the use of one or both legs to such an extent that he is permanently unable to use public transport. 
(a) and (b) The relevant statistics are not available. 
(a) The number of individuals in receipt at 30th June 1972 of a special pension under the Second Schedule to the Repatriation Act 1920-1965 in respect of blindness was 395. 
Persons suffering blindness due to non-service injury are not eligible for sales tax exemption in respect of motor vehicles under Item 135a in the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. 
The loss to sales tax revenue in 1971-72 due to exemption of motor vehicles and parts and the number of persons referred to in parts (2) and (3) of the question who benefited were as follows: 
 I thank the honourable member for the question. It gives me the opportunity to draw to the attention of all honourable members not what I said the other evening but some of the very comprehensive statements that are attached to the Budget. I always found statements Nos 2 and 3 much more informative than the Budget Speech itself. Perhaps somebody will suggest that about this Budget Speech also. At least the tabulation contained in the Budget papers under the heading 'Financial Year 1972-73' draws attention to the many sorts of factors that are influential so far as inflation is concerned. That table indicates that something that is called the volume of money becomes what it is by reason of action or inaction in other spheres. 
Yes, and by the Government. This table has the very fortunate advantage that it divides 1972-73 into 2 halves. The first half of the year was a period when the now Opposition was in government. The second half of the year, from 1 January 1973, largely coincides with the Labor Government's period of office. I suggest that a clear and critical examination should be made of the 2 halves of the year. A critical examination is important. I am not trying to carp on this matter, but I think the more informed debate there is about inflation the sooner we will reach cohesion about its solution. Insofar as we try to think it is a political game that can be made better or worse according to changes of government, I think we are far from getting a solution. But insofar as actions which government can take are important, I think that those who read the periods critically would suggest that more definite action has been taken by the Labor Government in the second half of that financial year than was taken by the previous Government in the first half. To a great extent the situation that is upon us now had its seeds not only in the first half of the financial year but also going back earlier. 
Regarding the influences of such things as expansion of bank credit and other extensions that are generally called liquidity in the finish, we have acted more decisively in that area than the previous Government did. I simply pinpoint that that influence is not reflected yet in either of the 2 halves of the financial year. I am talking about the table in the Budget. At question time I do not venture to try to cover everything. If I am asked a question I try to confine myself to the perspective of that question. 1 merely suggest that on 23 December we took the action of revaluing the currency. We did not follow the United States down when it devalued later. We acted for the first time for some years on the statutory deposits and so on. We took the recent action on tariffs also. I suggest that all of these actions will have more effect in reducing inflation in the future period and had the previous Govern ment taken some of those actions the situation that we now have would not be as aggravated as it is. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise revisions to the financial assistance grants arrangements agreed between the Australian and State Governments at the Premiers' Conference held on 28 and 29 June 1973, namely: The reductions to the financial assistance grants which it was agreed would accompany the transfer to the Australian Government of financial responsibility for tertiary education as from January 1974; the payment in 1973- 74 of special additional revenue assistance of $25m to the States to be distributed between them in proportion to the formula grants; and the payment of grants to Western Australia in 1973-74 and 1974-75 additional to those authorised by present legislation. 
The financial assistance grants at present being paid to the States are authorised by the States Grants Act 1971-1972. In view of the fact that the provisions of a substantial number of sections of this Act are no longer operative and unnecessarily complicate the Act, it has been decided to provide for an entirely new Act. Apart from the deletion of these inoperative sections and the new provisions to effect the revisions referred to above the form of the legislation follows closely that of the present legislation. 
The present financial assistance arrangements were originally settled at the June 1970 Premiers Conference and were intended to apply over the 5 years to 1974-75. However, the arrangements have been substantially revised on a number of occasions since then, principally by the provision of additional grants and by adjustments which accompanied the transfer of payroll tax to the States, although the formula incorporated in the arrangements has not been altered. 
I turn now to discuss the 3 revisions to the arrangements in more detail. At the Premiers Conference in June the States accepted the Australian Government's offer to assume full financial responsibility for financing tertiary education from 1 January 1974, and it was agreed that estimated amounts of recurrent expenditure of which the States would thereby be relieved should be deducted from the financial assistance grants otherwise payable. The estimated capital expenditures of which the States are to be relieved are being deducted from the States' Loan Council programs. I will refer to this aspect of the matter in my second reading speech on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1973. 
The reductions from the revenue grants for 1973-74, totalling $1 11.8m, represent estimates of the half-year savings to the States; the amounts for 1974-75, totalling $229.7m represent the estimated full-year savings. These reductions are being made in accordance with a general policy expressed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his opening speech at the Conference that, where the national Government undertakes new or additional commitments which relieve the States or their authorities of the need to allocate funds for expenditures at present being carried by them, there should be adjustments in the financial arrangements between the 2 levels of government to take account of the shift of new financial responsibilities. 
Legislation to authorise the necessary additional grants to the States for tertiary education will be introduced by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in the present sittings of Parliament. The additional revenue assistance of $25m which the Australian Government agreed to provide to the States in 1973-74 is being paid in recognition of Budget difficulties which they were seen to be facing this year. It is to be distributed between the States in proportion to the grants payable to them in 1973- 74 under the financial assistance grants formula. 
At the Premiers Conference the Prime Minister made it clear to the States that the Australian Government does not intend to provide further general revenue assistance to the States in this financial year. We would contemplate providing such assistance only if the States were to face undue difficulties due to factors beyond their control which could not have been foreseen at the time the States' Budgets were brought down. 
The Bill also revises the provision in the existing Act under which grants additional to those calculated under the formula are to be paid to Western Australia in 1973-74 and 1974- 75. (Quorum formed.) Those additional grants were being paid in accordance with a decision taken at the June 1970 Premiers Conference. They were J 12. 5m in 1970-71, $9.5m in 1971-72 and $6.5m in 1972-73 and were to have been $3.5m and $500,000 in 1973-74 and 1974-75 respectively. At the June 1973 Premiers Conference it was agreed that the additional grant payable to Western Australia in 1973-74 should remain at $6.5m instead of being reduced to $3. 5m as provided in the existing legislation. It was agreed at the Conference also that Western Australia would receive an additional temporary grant in 1973-74, the amount of which would be the subject of further discussion between the Australian and Western Australian governments. It has been agreed, following such discussion, that a special temporary addition of $3. 5m - the same as the amount added last year - would be made to the State's revenue grants in 1973-74. It has also been agreed that the additional financial assistance grant for Western Australia remain at $6.5m in 1974-75. Thus, additional grants to Western Australia totalling $1Om in 1973- 74 and $6.5m in 1974-75 are provided for in the Bill. 
Turning to the details of the Bill, the first 5 clauses are of a machinery nature. Clause 6 sets out the manner in which the 'formula grants' payable to the States in 1973-74 and subsequent years are to be determined. These grants constitute the bulk of the grants payable under the act. Sub-clause (1.) of this clause sets out the general method of determining these grants. The method is the same as that provided in the existing legislation - that is, the formula grant for each State is calculated by taking that State's grant for the previous year and increasing it in proportion to the increases in the State's population and in average wages in Australia as a whole and by a further factor of 1.8 per cent. 
Sub-clause (2.) of clause 6 sets out the amounts to be used as the base for purposes of determining the formula grants for 1973-74. These amounts are the actual financial assistance grants paid to each State in 1972-73 under section 7 of the States Grants Act 1971-72, the equivalent section in that Act to this clause, plus an additional $2m in the case of Queensland. This latter addition, in conjunction with sub-clause (4.), continues the arrangement agreed at the June 1970 Premiers Conference and embodied in present legislation that there be an addition of $2m to the 'base' for calculating Queensland's formula grant for each of the 5 years ending 1974-75. 
Sub-clause (3.) of clause 6 provides for the reductions to the 1974-75 grants on account of the Australian Government's assumption of full responsibility for financing tertiary education. As the grants payable under this clause, with the addition of $2m for Queensland, become the base amounts for purposes of calculating the grants in the next year, this provision affects a permanent reduction in the grants.  Clause 7 sets out the reductions to be made, on the same account, to the grants which would otherwise be payable under the Act during 1973-74. These reductions do not affect the base amounts for purposes of calculating the grants under the formula in 1974- 75. Clauses 8 and 9 provide, respectively, for the additional revenue assistance of $25m to be divided between all the States and the additional grants to Western Australia. The remaining clauses are mainly of a machinery nature and are similar to those contained in the existing legislation. 
Full details of the general revenue assistance to be paid to the States in 1973-74 are given in Chapter II of the Budget document Payments to or for the States 1973-74. Comparison of the amounts of such assistance estimated to be paid in this year with the amounts paid in 1972-73 are affected by the reductions to be made to the 1973-74 grants on account of tertiary education. If, however, the figures for the 2 years are adjusted to make them comparable in this respect, total general revenue assistance estimated to be payable to the States in 1973-74, on assumptions spelt out in the document to which I have referred, will be some 15.6 per cent greater than that paid in 1972-73. This is a substantial increase, which should assist the States to continue to improve the standards of the services they provide. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorrise capital grants to the States in 1973-74 totalling $278,307,000. This represents the grant component of the State Government Loan Council programs for 1973-74. The Bill also provides for the payment of grants in the first 6 months of 1974-75 pending the passage of similar legislation in that year. The Bill provides that the payments authorised in it may be made from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or from the Loan Fund, and includes appropriate borrowing authority. As part of the revised revenue assistance arrangements with the State governments settled at the June 1970 Premiers Conference, the Australian Government undertook to provide, on a continuing basis, a portion of the State Government Loan Council programs in the form of interest-free grants in lieu of what would otherwise be borrowings by the States. The grants are designed to help the States finance capital works from which debt charges are not normally recovered, such as schools, police buildings and the like. They are not. however, subject to conditions as to the purposes for which they might be expended. At its meeting in June 1973, the Loan Council approved programs for the State governments totalling $867m, comprising $278,307,000 in the form of grants from the Australian Government and $588,693,000 in the form of borrowings. 
In determining the size of the State Government Loan Council programs which the Australian Government should support, 2 special factors had to be taken into account. Firstly, at the Premiers Conference Loan Council meeting new arrangements for financing the construction of welfare housing were agreed upon. Whereas in 1972-73 such expenditures were financed by the States out of their borrowing programs as approved by the Loan Council for that year, they will be financed in 1973-74 and subsequent years by specific purpose advances from the Australian Government under a new housing agreement. Legislation to authorise the payment of these advances will be introduced in these sittings of parliament. Secondly, at the same meeting, the States accepted the Australian Government's offer to assume full responsibility for financing tertiary education from January 1974 and agreed that their Loan Council programs should be reduced by estimates of the capital expenditures of which they would thereby be relieved. The agreed reductions for 1973-74 total $32.8rn, representing the estimated half year savings to the States, and will total $65.4m for the full year in 1 974-75. 
These 2 factors explain why the States' Loan Council programs for 1973-74 - totalling $867m - are lower than the programs in 1972-73, when they totalled $982m. If adjustments are made to put the programs for both years on a comparable basis, the 1973-74 program is $84.7m, or 10.4 per cent, greater than the 1972-73 program. This is a substantial increase, and it should assist the States in maintaining a high level of capital expenditures. The capital grants represent 32.1 per cent of the total programs. The Australian Government has undertaken to support the States' borrowing programs by subscribing any shortfall between these programs and amounts available from public borrowings from its own revenue sources. The Loan Council, at its June 1973 meeting, also approved borrowing programs for the larger State semi-government and local authorities totalling $564m, which represents an increase of $5 1.6m, or 10.1 per cent, over total borrowings by these authorities in 1972-73 - again a substantial increase. Larger State authorities are those semi-government and local authorities whose individual borrowings for the year exceed $400,000. The Loan Council, following the practice of recent years, has set no overall limit in 1973-74 on borrowings of authorities whose individual borrowings amount to $400,000 or less. Further details concerning the Loan Council programs of the States and their authorities for 1973-74 may be found in Chapter III of the Budget document 'Payments to or for the States 1973-74'. 
I now turn to the specific provisions of the Bill. It will be noted that besides authorising, in clause 3, the payment of grants to the States totalling $278,307,000 in 1973-74 the Bill, in clause 4, authorises the Treasurer to make advance payments in the first 6 months of 1974-75 at the same annual rate as in the current financial year. The Australian Government has a continuing obligation to provide these grants and it is desirable that there be authority to make payments to the States in 1974-75 before the passage of legislation in that year. Under clause 5 of the Bill, payments under the Act may be made either from Consolidated Revenue Fund or Loan Fund, and clause 9 provides for the necessary appropriation of these funds. The extent to which the payments will be met from Loan Fund will depend on borrowings during the year, which cannot be estimated in advance. 
Clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill authorise the Treasurer to borrow funds, in the period from the commencement of the Act to the end of December 1974, up to the total of the amounts of the grants payable in 1973-74 and in the first 6 months of 1974-75. This borrowing authority will be reduced by the amount of any borrowings made before the commencement of this Act, under the authority of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act (No. 3) 1972, which may have been used to finance grants made in the first 6 months of 1973-74. These capital grants, by replacing what would otherwise be loan funds, relieve the States of interest and sinking fund charges which they would otherwise have to meet from their revenue budgets, and thus free funds for expenditure in other directions. The savings in debt charges arising from the capital grants are estimated to have totalled $36.4m by the end of 1972-73, and to amount to a further $38.4m in 1973-74. They are thus providing considerable relief to the States' revenue budgets. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
The need to introduce this Bill and the 2 Bills which follow arises from the establishment of the Darwin Community College. The new college, which is expected to begin teaching in March 1974, has been established as a statutory authority under an ordinance of the Northern Territory. There are, however, certain provisions that cannot be encompassed within the ambit of a Territory ordinance and it is therefore necessary to enact them in complementary legislation by the Australian Parliament. The matters to which I refer relate to financial provisions, air accidents liability and superannuation. This Bill covers the first of these matters. 
The Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill 1973 includes certain financial provisions that normally apply to statutory authorities established by an enactment of this Parliament. These provisions relate to the payment to a statutory authority incorporated by a law of a territory of moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purposes of that authority, and empower the Treasurer to give directions as to the amounts in which and the times at which the moneys are to be paid. The bill not only makes provision for the Darwin Community College, but also for any authority that may be incorporated in future for a public purpose by a law of a territory and prescribed by regulation under the Act. Its effect would be to remove the need for further specific legislation by the Australian 
Parliament in relation to other authorities that may be similarly established in future. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I explained the need for this Bill in my second reading speech on the Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill 1973. The Air Accidents (Australian Government Liability) Bill 1973 amends the principal Act to provide that any body corporate that is incorporated for a public purpose by a law of a territory may, where appropriate, be declared by regulations to be a body corporate to which the Act applies. This method of dealing with territory instrumentalities will enable not only the Darwin Community College to be prescribed but also any other appropriate Territory authorities, thus avoiding the need for further amendments to the principal Act. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As honourable members will recall, I explained the need for this Bill in my second reading speech on the Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill 1973. The Bill provides for the application of the Superannuation Act to the Principal and staff of the Darwin Community College. Because of the need to extend superannuation cover from the date the college legally came into existence, the amendment is deemed to operate with retrospective effect from 19 July 1973. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
 I would like to reply briefly to two or three of the honourable gentlemen who tonight have raised matters that impinge upon my responsibility. My friend from Angas  (Mr Giles)  claimed that he was more emotional tonight than usual. 'He certainly was no more rational than usual. 
I think his was not the best digested case, if I might say so, and a little politically biased. In relation to his remarks and those of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and my friend from Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  about the question of carbonated fruit drinks, I should simply like to ask them to reflect upon the words in the Budget Speech. They will have an opportunity later, when the necessary Sales Tax Bill comes before the House, to argue this matter in more detail. In the Budget Speech I indicated that the previous scheme was giving minimum benefit to the fruit growers and maximum benefit to other .people. I do not often name commercial products but in my view one of the world's worst drinks is Coca Cola. Merely to come within the provisions of a 5 per cent content of fruit in order to escape the sales tax I think is typical and indicative of how concerned some companies are about the fruit growers and how concerned they are about their own pockets. 
What I pointed out the other night was that these drinks should be treated in the same way as drinks that have no fruit content. If anybody in this House can argue that Coca Cola is better because it has a minimum of 5 per cent fruit content rather than none, I would be happy to have the explanation. But because these drinks have the minimum fruit content the fruit growers are able to sell $5m worth of fruit juice and I lose $25m in revenue. I have indicated that I would prefer to give $5m directly to the fruit industry. It would be much better to sell pure fruit juice than adulterated fruit juice, which is what it is. It was for that reason we chose to do what we did. I described the previous arrangement as a classic example of trying to do the right thing in the wrong way. 
If the fruit industry can show that it has a detriment to that extent, yes, but I would be surprised that if it did not use a little more initiative it could not sell the product on its own merits. There is still no sales tax on drinks that contain more than 5 per cent of fruit content. If the Coca Cola company would less adulterate its product and make it 10 per cent fruit content it would sell twice as much and I might be prepared to look at this situation on that basis. What I am saying is that the company has sailed within the minimum confines and has received the maximum benefits. What we want is a scheme that will give the maximum benefit, and I am sure that all honourable members who have spoken tonight are really more concerned about the fruit industry than they are about the carbonated drink industry. I think that once certain tax benefits are perverted by certain areas of industry we are entitled to take steps to correct the position. That is what is being done. 
I am willing, as one of my colleagues said, to receive any representations and I hope that they will be adequately documented. I think one of the best drinks in the world is 100 per cent apple juice. Some companies include a 5 per cent fruit content in their product simply because the Government has provided a concession? Why was the percentage as low as 5 per cent? Products containing 25 to 50 per cent pure fruit are not taxed. We regarded the concession as a lurk which is being used not to the advantage of the fruit industry but to the advantage of these firms, many of which are of the multi-national variety. I have heard all sorts of stories about what happens if one puts a silver coin in a bottle of Coca Cola. I have never wanted to go that far because, to begin with, I think it is overcarbonated and not 'fruitised', if I may use that expression. At least this is one of the things that we have recognised. 
On the question of brandy, I do not think the industry is really struggling as much as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  suggests. Rum producers in Australia at least now think that I have given them some equality in respect of brandy. 
They say it removed a disadvantage. Here we are at the point of semantics but if the brandy industry at some later point of time can show me that it has been battered to the ground as a result of this action, which would greatly surprise me, I will be prepared to hear representations. But I do not like belly-aching in advance. I can understand it because if one does not howl first one is sometimes not taken notice of eventually. At least no detriment has as yet been suffered by that industry. It imagines that it might. 
All I am saying is that a very marginal difference has been made to that industry. This is indicative of many situations that exist in the community. People who might survive otherwise are surviving better than they would because subsidies are being given to them. Sometimes there are cases for subsidies but I believe that all subsidies, when they are given, should be revealed rather than concealed. The Coombs Report has revealed comprehensively for the first time the way many things have been concealed over a long time. Many years ago there was a reason for doing certain things but there is not necessarily the same necessity in 1973 to preserve them. Some of the Government's proposals will not begin to have impact until later this financial year. If people find that they have suffered detriment to the point where they are likely to be exterminated, I will be willing to listen to them, but I think many are receiving benefits that were introduced many years ago which they no longer require. Insofar as they do not require them and they are being maintained, they are getting them to the disadvantage of other sections of the community. The purpose of the Budget has been to try to strip away many of the these provisions. 
Ohe of the greatest difficulties in improving welfare payments has been what was described in the Budget speech as the erosion of the tax base. People's taxable income was being reduced considerably by varoius types of devices about which, whilst they once may have had some validity, there is doubt whether that validity exists any longer. I simply say that in defence of the action that has been taken. I have noted the statements made tonight and if well documented cases are put to me showing detriment, I will at least look at them sympathetically. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie, with his usual devotion to the interests of his constituents, has already approached me about this matter. 
Occasionally they are legitimate. It saves a great deal of confusion afterwards if you have some indication of the matter beforehand. As the honourable member knows, I have received telegrams and other representations from mining interests and from the gold mining industry in Kalgoorlie in particular. I regret very much that parliamentary duties will preclude my being in attendance in Kalgoorlie on Thursday. I hope that will be understood by the citizens of Kalgoorlie. 
I believe that the general interests should sometimes have consideration over the particular interest and I feel it is the duty of members of Parliament to be in Parliament when it is sitting, and Parliament is where I shall be on Thursday. However I point out that the decision to remove the taxation concession on the profits from gold mining was taken after careful consideration. The price is one thing about which the honourable member for Kalgoorlie and I have differed over the years. He came closer to being right about what the final price of gold was than I did, but nevertheless the present price of gold compared with what it was certainly has changed the circumstances of that industry. It was felt that therefore there was no longer any justification for a decision that had been taken more than 30 years ago still to prevail now. I repeat that the decision was made after careful consideration. 
However I can understand that it impacts with particular incidence in the area of Kalgoorlie, which area is virtually unique in Australia in that regard. If it can be demonstrated that hardships occur I shall look at them. Given the additional income now being earned by that industry, I find it a little hard to believe that the taking away of half of the profits of the industry - that is what the announced tax measure will mean - would bring the amount of desolation and destitution in that area that some people have suggested. However, as I have said in relation to other areas, if problems are created as a result of Government decisions I am perfectly open to receive deputations or even go and see the scenes of trouble. I give that assurance to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. It may be easier for him to bring people here than it would be for me to go to Kalgoorlie because the deputation might want to see other people in Canberra as well. But insofar as it can be demonstrated that a real difficulty has been created I will look sympathetically at the situation, as I said in the adjournment debate the other night in respect of a certain tax on fruit products. I now repeat that offer. 
The level of the unemployment benefit generally is a matter for Cabinet decision. The matter of special payments in special circumstances is also one for Cabinet decision. One would hope that in a wellorganised community unemployment would not exist. Surely the higher that the unemployment benefit is the more disposed will society be to face up to the problem that it has still to pay a person the best part of a wage for doing nothing, and that a more constructive attitude is to -pay a living wage for doing something. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The attention of the honourable member is invited to what I said in reply to questions asked of me in the House of Representatives on 22 May 1973 by the honourable members for Bradfield and Gwydir (Hansard, pages 2362-4), and also to what 1 said in a joint Press statement issued by the Minister for Housing and myself on 22 May 1973 following a meeting we had that day with representatives of the Permanent Building Societies Association Limited of New South Wales. 
See reply to (1). 
(a) and (b) Statistical information on this question is not available. 
(a) and (b) Reliable statistics are not available. 
Depositors' balances with the Commonwealth Savings Bank are withdrawable on demand except for a small segment of special investment deposits which attract a higher interest rate than ordinary deposit accounts but which require three months' notice of withdrawal. 
It is true that the Commonwealth Savings Bank provides long-term housing loans and some other long-term loans. However, in the context in which this matter is raised it is relevant that the Commonwealth Savings Bank, together with other savings banks subject to the Banking Act 1959-1967. is required to invest at least 60 per cent of its depositors' balances in specified types of assets such as Australian Government and semi and local government securities. There is a further provision that within the 60 per cent figure at least 10 per cent of depositors' balances is to be held in liquid type assets such as deposits with the Reserve Bank and in Commonwealth Treasury Notes. In this latter regard, the Commonwealth Savings Bank holds liquids and shortterm securities of an . amount beyond any likely drain on its liquid resources. 
.The right honourable gentleman might have thought that last night he delivered a counter to inflation. I believe it was no such thing. I have indicated on many occasions, both in this House and outside it, that I believe that ultimately all Western democracies will have to come down to the acceptance of something that is rather broadly described as an 'incomes policy'. 1 have said further that in my view the minimum condition of getting such a policy in a workable form is that there should be trustful co-operation between employer and employee groups with the Government holding the ring, not taking one side or the other as did the previous Government, and that the minimum condition of being able to begin such talks between employer and employee groups is that the trade union movement should believe that something systematic is being done about prices just as it believes that there is systematic regulation of wages. It is for those reasons that we took the steps we did - and there was no great assistance from the other side of the House about it. We took steps to set up the Prices Justification Tribunal, we appointed a committee from both sides of the House, and we sought, at the Premiers Conference in May the co-operation of the States because there will be no grappling with inflation until first there is comprehension as to what the magnitudes and perspectives of the problem are. 
I am suggesting that at least employees have to go to arbitration but price makers do not, and what you want is reconciliation between price makers on the one hand and price takers on the other hand, and there are far more price takers than there are price makers. The Leader of the Opposition said last night that he called for a wages-prices freeze. Does he believe that it is constitu tionally possible to do it in the first instance? What would be the basis for deciding what the prices were on the day that he sought to get the freeze? I would submit, as was rightly said here last night, that it was a pale echo of phase 3 of the United States policy. The United States could not have done what it did, nor could the United Kingdom, unless more preliminary steps were taken. In the United States before phase 2 or phase 3 was introduced there was in existence the Economic Stabilisation Act. There is no such proviso here. 
One of the difficulties in this country is that nothing was done about price justification or price regulating over the years, and to suggest that merely by saying you will create certain sorts of mechanisms they immediately become working mechanisms is, to my mind, economic nonsense. I thought last night that the approach of the right honourble gentleman, with all respect - and I said this this morning - was almost supreme blasphemy. He condemned the policy that his Government had lived on for the last 10 years. Half the increase necessary in Budget outgoing this year is simply to pay for the same sorts of services at today's prices. You can haggle if you like as to how much of the inflation is yours and how much is mine. It is a collective inheritance. I simply point out, as my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide did last night, that the first 2 years after your Government came into office when the Labor Government went out in 1949 were the 2 years of highest price inflation on record. 
I do not attempt in any way to underestimate the seriousness of this problem, but I think that we get nowhere by cheap arithmetical exercises, at one moment using percentages and at the next moment using the aggregate of millions. I was surprised last night by the attitude of the Country Party. After all, look at the document that you ought to begin with if you make any fundamental analysis of the economy of Australia - the White Paper on National Income and Expenditure 1972-73. Look at where the greatest increases in incomes were this year. They were at the country level. You got twice as much last year for selling slightly less wool than you got in the previous year. 
I say this about the Country Party, as part of the Opposition: Last night there was a lot of theoretical argument - sneering if you like - about the principles of socialism. Country 
Party members in particular squeal like stuck pigs when some of the socialist benefits they receive are taken away. Let .us be sensible about this. It is a problem which is not peculiar to Australia. Part of the reason for inflation in Australia, as has been pointed out in several speeches made by honourable members, is that it is imported. A large part however, as is reflected in the consumer price index, has nothing whatever to do with wages but a lot to do with higher food prices. I am not arguing that a wage earner is entitled to a fair return for his labour but a farmer is not entitled to a fair price for his product. Members of the Country Party should not be condemnatory of a higher level of inflation now because its section of the community, in its opinion justly, is getting higher incomes now than previously. What is wanted here is a collective approach, not a series of guerrilla sniping efforts. In May this year my Leader took the step of convening a meeting of the States about this matter. So far we have had plenty of words but very little action. I hope that at least we can accept what the Leader of the Opposition said last night, namely that we can expect the cooperation of Liberal State governments in future. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the National Debt Sinking Fund Act 1966-1967, I present the 50th annual report on the operations of the National Debt Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
If the state of the economy is to be the criterion, I suggest to all investors that they hold on to their shares. After all, the fact that A sells a share usually implies that there is another character, B, willing to buy that share. If somebody is foolish enough to sell at a low price and somebody else wise enough to buy at that low price, I think that judgment will be vindicated. 
The operation of the Prices Justification Tribunal resides in the jurisdiction of my distinguished colleague, the Prime Minister. However, I am sure that he, like me, is concerned that, if a law exists in the community applying to certain sorts of people, it ought to be obeyed. If there is any suggestion that people will try to boycott it and there are deficiencies in the Act which enable them to do so, we certainly will close such loopholes. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Complicated and lengthy as this Bill is, it has a simple purpose. It is designed to put an end to the use of Norfolk Island and, to a more limited extent, of Papua New Guinea for tax haven purposes. I informed the House earlier in the year that this legislation would be brought in. I said then that it would be the same as legislation announced by my predecessor on 19 July 1972. The Bill I now present fully accords with my predecessor's announcement. With the unanimity of purpose that is thus implied, and because fuller explanations are given in an explanatory memorandum that is being made available to honourable members, I think I can be fairly brief in what 1 say about the Bill. 
It may be useful if I begin by saying something about what the term 'tax haven' means. In some business and professional circles it may be replaced by more euphemistic terms, such as 'investment centre', 'finance centre', capital entrepot' or the like. But whatever the polite description the meaning is the same. A tax haven is a place that levies little or no income tax of its own, whether generally or in particular circumstances, and which has banking, commercial and communication facilities, and a legal system, conducive to resort to it by people and companies wishing to minimise or eliminate tax they would otherwise have to pay. 
In the Norfolk Island context the absence ' of income tax is due to the fact that the Island is not treated as part of Australia for general tax purposes, although it is for some special purposes, such as the rebate that frees inter-company dividends from tax. Income that has, or is given, a technical legal source on Norfolk Island is not subject to Australian tax if it is derived by an individual or company qualifying as a resident of the Island. A company can be a resident of the Island by being incorporated and managed and controlled there, even though its ownership is wholly vested elsewhere. 
Before my predecessor's announcement last July there had been highly complex tax avoidance arrangements designed chiefly to convert Australian income of Australian residents into income with a technical 'source' on the Island derived by an entity that was technically an Island resident. In a fairly typical situation money would be made available from Australia on interest-free terms - a most unlikely business deal in normal circumstances - to a company resident in Norfolk Island. The money would be on-lent through a series of companies resident in the Island and ultimately find its way back to Australia as an interest-bearing loan to the company that provided it in the first place. How anybody can give respectability to that sort of transaction is beyond my comprehension, ethically at least. 
The object of the scheme was to give the interest received by the Island companies the flavour of income with a source on the Island so that it was free of Australian tax, while the interest paid by the Australian company was a tax deduction in its own assessments. In other cases the Island's tax haven status was used by non-residents to avoid Australian tax and, possibly, also foreign taxes. It has by no means been established that all of the schemes based on Norfolk Island effectively avoid tax. The application of the present law in the immense variety of factual situations that can be contrived is, however, uncertain and difficult. It is necessary therefore both to tighten up and to clarify the law. 
The amendments in the Bill aim at a fair balance between the interests of Islanders and the Australian tax-paying community. The key provision will make the income tax law apply as if Norfolk Island were part of Australia. This would in itself stop the tax avoidance. This shows how the unscrupulous can wreak damage upon the innocent. However, if no more than that were done all residents of Norfolk Island, including the Pitcairners who have lived there on tax-free terms for so long, would be subject to tax on their Island income. The Bill does not have this extreme effect. It proposes new provisions which will continue to exempt from tax the Island and other ex-Australian income of people who live on the Island and are not resident in Australia for tax purposes. These kinds of income will also be exempt when derived by companies wholly owned and controlled by such Island residents. Another exemption will be provided for certain trust income, principally income accumulating under the terms of an Island trust in which the beneficiaries are Island people. For people who are not entitled to the full exemption that will be available for permanent residents of the Island, there will be an exemption for employment income earned on the Island where the period of time to be spent there is over 6 months. 
These are the main provisions, but the Bill contains a variety of supplementary measures, mostly in the form of safeguards against exploitation of the new provisions. For example, there are detailed rules to protect the condition that, for a company to be exempt, it must be wholly owned and controlled on the Island. Conversely, the Bill provides authority for the Commissioner of Taxation to disregard a temporary failure to comply with this condition where it would be appropriate in special circumstances to do so. 
Against the background of arrangements that have been made in the past to give income an artificial Island source, the Bill provides rules specifying when income such as dividends, interest and royalties are to be treated as having an Island source. 
As the former Treasurer announced, the new provisions will have effect in relation to income derived after 19 July 1972. However, as a transitional measure to assist Island companies that now have some degree of nonIsland ownership, but wish to re-arrange their affairs so as to retain tax exemption, the Bill provides for an appropriate partial exemption for income derived up to the end of the 1973-74 income year for a company that becomes fully Island-owned and controlled during the last 6 months of 1973-74. There has been little, if any, use of the Territories of Cocos (Keeling) Islands or Christmas Island for tax haven purposes. The tax law relating to them is, however, the same as that applying to Norfolk Island. If the law were left unchanged, there could be resort to these territories for a tax haven. The operators are cosmopolitan people; they are not interested in where they go. It is the benefits they gain that concern them. The Bill accordingly makes the same amendments for the 2 Territories as it does for Norfolk Island. 
I turn now to the part of the Bill that is concerned with tax haven resort to Papua New Guinea. These measures were also foreshadowed in my predecessor's statement in July 1972. Broadly speaking, private company groups are given a choice by the income tax law of paying dividend to individual shareholders, which are then taxed at the shareholders' personal rates, or of paying an undistributed profits tax. Recent tightening of the law to uphold that principle has led to a situation where some private company groups pay dividends to so-called 'repository' companies in Papua New Guinea. Papua New Guinea does not tax the dividends and the arrangements have been made with the objective that no Australian tax would be paid on them either. The dividends received by the repository company in Papua New Guinea would in due course be used in ways that would benefit the Australian shareholders without exposing them to liability to tax. To correct this situation, the Bill proposes basically that where dividends were, or are, paid after 19 July .1972 by a private company in Australia to another private company in 
Papua New Guinea, the dividends will not be taken into account in determining whether the paying company has made a distribution of profits sufficient to avoid payment of undistributed profits tax. This is the basic provision, but there are measures to the effect that it is to apply only to dividends that are held in Papua New Guinea on behalf of Australian individual shareholders. 
This Bill does not deal with the problem of tax havens outside Australian jurisdiction. This is a most difficult matter to which I and my advisers have been devoting some attention. It is necessary that action be taken to prevent or minimise as far as possible successful use of such haven by Australian taxpayers, because the result of the tax avoiders' efforts is a heavier tax burden on their fellow citizens and companies. I assure the House that the Government will as soon as and wherever practicable, be taking whatever steps are open to it to prevent loss of revenue through the use of tax havens. I am sure that I will have the support of all parts of this House in such endeavours. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 
It is very easy to rake up quotations, but I suggest that there are times when, in the face of critical circumstance, one has to take decisions which one does not like to take. 
I would suggest that many decisions could not be made until after the Budget was brought down; some decisions were made well before the Budget. That simply highlights the fact that the Budget is not the be-all and end-all of financial management in Australia. The steps taken recently and announced oh Sunday, and the matter of varying the rates of exchange and even the matter of open market operations, are not ones that can be bruited around the countryside for weeks in advance. They are matters in relation to which decisions have to be taken with a certain amount of precision. The most critical situation that has faced Australia does not go back only to 2 December; it goes back much earlier. In the period ended 30 June 1973 that rather curious index known as the volume of money increased by 26 per cent, which is unprecedented in Australia. The major part of that increase took place in- the period from July 1972 to December 1972, which was within the jurisdiction of the previous Government. 
'For well known reasons but also because of bad management. This Government took the steps to try to correct the situation. I heard your earlier reference to the length of answers,  Mr Speaker,  but when one is asked a series of questions it is pretty difficult to give a brief answer. 
One of the hardest things to do is to din into the head of the Leader of the Opposition any economic common sense. If honourable members opposite ask such questions they must expect to receive detailed answers. I am appreciative of the fact that what has been done with regard to the instruction about open market operations will force up interest rates in the foreseeable future. But something must be done about inflation. The right honourable gentleman says, when the Government takes one action: 'Is this the only action you are going to take?' When the Government takes another set of actions he says: Is this the only action?' This action has been taken carefully and deliberately with a view to acting upon the long term bond rate for government securities. It will have some impact on other areas; one cannot deny that. All I suggest is that the right honourable gentleman ought to display a little co-operation in this exercise rather than just trying to score cheap political points all the time. 
At least the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has dug up a more recent statement than his leader did. I did advise shareholders on 30 August to hold their shares. But I did not mean for 10 minutes or 10 days; I meant for a more sensible period such as at least 10 months. I repeat my advice: Still hold them, because the future of this country is good. I would like to ask the honourable members who score so many points in this way: Were they concerned when shares in Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd stood at something like $22 to $24? What was the rip-off in share values in the last several years that brought that particular security down from $22 to about $7? BHP is a better investment than the most recent selling prices would indicate. I talked the other day with the management of BHP. I take the opportunity of talking with any groups of that kind. They indicated that they were a little concerned when the shares were as high as $24. They are equally as concerned now that the shares are as low as they are, and so they should be. I pay this tribute to BHP: I always have been an admirer of it despite what some honourable members opposite may think. I think it is an example of a monopoly that has not always used its monopoly power in the way that theoetically one might suppose it could use that power. I would say to those people who are selling those sorts of shares at this low value: Hang on to them because they will appreciate. 
Yes, I believe that there has to be a lot of re-thinking about business organisation as between corporative and unincorporative business, private and public, and so on. I think that the move taken recently sets the course for beginning to make that sort of systematic change. The details of the Bill will be announced later and I hope that that will afford an opportunity for some of these ideas to be debated at greater length than I can use at question time. 
I thank the honourable member for the polite ending to his question. The matter is under discussion with the credit unions and taxation authorities. The matter is not quite as simple as is sometimes suggested. I can assure the honourable gentleman that it is being considered as also are the necessary administrative arrangements about the other matter. 
I am surprised that a former Treasurer should know so little about open market operations. I will not indicate the level. 
I present the following paper; 
Taxation Statistics 1971-72' dated 1 September 1973, supplement to the Fifty-first Report of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
Ordered that the paper be printed. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a second time. 
This Bill will give effect to the Budget proposal to increase the rate of pay-roll tax in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The present rate of 21 per cent will be increased to 3) per cent from 1 September 1973 and to 4i per cent from 1 July 1974. Since the transfer of the tax to the States in September 1971, pay-roll tax has been payable in respect of salaries and wages related to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory under legislation applying only in the Territories. The rate of  2i  per cent at which the tax was levied before 1 September 1971 has continued to apply in the Territories although each of the States imposed tax at the rate of  3i  per cent from that date. 
Following the Premiers Conference last June the Premiers foreshadowed an increase to 4i per cent in the rate of pay-roll tax in the States. Legislation to bring the rate up to that level as from 1 September 1973 has already been introduced in some State parliaments. There is no good reason why territory employers should not be called upon to meet taxes and charges comparable with those borne by employers in the States. Accordingly this Bill will, in 2 steps, bring the territory rate into line with the rate applying in the States. The immediate increase to 3i per cent will apply to wages payable on and after 1 September 1973 and included in payroll tax returns due for lodgment on 7 October 1973. I just add that I have also circulated an explanatory memorandum. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on morion by  Mr Gorton)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Treasurer's press release of 6 April 1973 regarding the administration of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act during the period 9 March 1973 to 31 March 1973 included the following statement: 
The preliminary examination of 17 proposals was completed. The Government had indicated that it had no objection to 14 proposals going ahead as presented. They included a number of proposals which were found on examination not to lead to loss of Australian control, or to be related to take-overs of companies with assets of less than $lm which did not raise any important national interest considerations.' 
As explained in answer to question No. 208, it would not be appropriate to provide the names of the companies concerned in all foreign takeover proposals coming to the Government's attention because in many cases information has been provided confidentially. 
, (4) and (5) Under the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972, action to prevent consummation of a particular takeover proposal is subject to the Government being satisfied that it would result in effective control of the 'target' company being transferred from Australian to overseas interests and that this would be contrary to the national interest. Accordingly, these are the bases on which individual takeover proposals are considered so far as the taking of action under the Act is concerned. Because confidential information is involved, it would not be appropriate for me to provide detailed information about the application of these criteria in the particular cases instanced by the right honourable member. 
I believe that this question properly ought to have been addressed to me, and 1 think the way it has been asked indicates the colossal ignorance of the Leader of the Opposition, a former Treasurer, about the operation of the bond market. The bonds that were issued in July were a firm contract with the person who took them both as to interest rate and as to the length of time for which he would hold them. Some of the persons who will lose by selling bonds are those who were prepared to manipulate the market for their own advantage and debase everybody else's money standard. A superannuation fund is not a short-term dealer in securities; it is a long-term holder of securities. Those securities taken out in July, provided they are held to the date of their maturity, will return to the holder what he expected to receive. 
Might I answer the last part of the question first. 
I can be brief and sometimes I am. Brevity may be the soul of wit but it does not always disclose all the facts. In view of the concern of many honourable members about the operation of the new means test provisions and the decision now to make the pension taxable - I might say that was the intention of the previous Government, and there will be some anomolies in its introduction, as there always are - I have prepared a statement that will be available after question time to all members, senators, the Press and anybody else who is interested. It attempts to delineate the operations of the new provisions. 
If I may make clear- 
Yes. I want to make clear that it was the intention of the previous Government when the means test was being abolished to make the pension taxable. Whether the previous Government varied the age allowance was incidental to the proposition. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to the provision of contractual guarantees by the Australian Government for overseas borrowings by the Papua New Guinea Government in foreign currencies not exceeding the equivalent of $A24m in 1973-74. The proceeds of the loans will be used by the Papua New Guinea Government to finance public works and services. Legislation to authorise the borrowings has already been passed by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly. Last financial year the Papua New Guinea Government made its first overseas borrowings on the international capital market. This borrowing, which was guaranteed by the Australian Government under legislation similar to that now before the House, was for an amount of 50 million Deutschemarks - $A14m - repayable over 15 years and it carried an interest rate of 6.75 per cent per annum. 
The Parliament has also on a number of previous occasions approved similar contractual guarantees by the Australian Government in respect of loans to Papua New Guinea from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development Bank. All borrowings by the Papua New Guinea Government, of course, carry a statutory guarantee by the Australian Government by virtue of section 75a of the Papua New Guinea Act. 
It is proposed that arrangements for the borrowings for which this Bill provides contractual guarantees will be concluded during the course of this financial year. Several loan possibilities on overseas markets are currently being investigated by the Fapua New Guinea Government. The form of guarantee that is customarily required in international capital markets is similar to those that have been given to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to the Asian Development Bank in respect of borrowings by Papua New Guinea from those institutions. The borrower and the guarantor would also both be required to give customary undertakings to the effect that interest payments and repayment of the loan would be made without deduction for taxes and would also be free of exchange control restrictions. The Bill accordingly provides for such undertakings to be given. 
The Bill is purposely couched in general terms in respect of the currencies and the precise forms of the proposed borrowings so as not to restrict the Papua New Guinea Government's choice as to the particular overseas market or markets in which it finally decides to arrange the loans. 
In present circumstances, it is expected that the overall cost of the borrowings by the Papua New Guinea Government will be somewhat less than the cost of borrowing for comparable periods from institutional sources in Australia. The provision of contractual guarantees by the Australian Government will materially assist Papua New Guinea in negotiating favourable terms for the borrowings as well as enhancing it? status as a borrower on overseas capital markets after it becomes independent. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mi  Peacock) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The age allowance was introduced in 1951 following a recommendation of the Commonwealth Committee on Taxation, 1950-1951, for the specific purpose of removing an anomaly then existing in the taxation treatment of two groups of aged persons - those, on the one hand, in receipt of full pension and the maximum permissible income under the means test, who paid no tax, and those on the other hand, who, because of the means test, were entitled to only part pension or no pension at all, and who were liable to tax even though their total income might have been no greater than that of full-rate pensioners. 
The anomaly which existed prior to 1951 arose from the interaction of the non-tapered means test then applicable and the conditions of entitlement to the pension and the fact that the pensions were free of tax. With the introduction of the tapered means test in 1969, the anomaly which had existed prior to 1951 would have ceased to exist even if the age allowance provisions had been wholly withdrawn. The rationale of the allowance disappeared in 1969 because it would no longer have been possible for a person not in receipt of a full age pension (because his other income exceeded the maximum permissible income) to be worse off after tax than a person) with a full age pension and maximum permissible income. 
As- announced in my Budget Speech, the allowance is being abolished with effect from the beginning of the present income year, as one of a package of measures associated with the abolition of the means test. . 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Taxation Office uses computers to assist in the making of assessments and for various clerical and enforcement purposes. A description of the main features of the system will be found in the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation, which my predecessor presented to Parliament on 26 September 1972. The only use presently made of visual display units is in the data entry system. When the computer edit programs indicate that an error may have been made, the information which an operator has fed into the system is displayed on a screen in coded form to enable the data to be verified by comparing it with the income tax return or other document from which it has been extracted. The screen does not provide the verifying operator with any information about the taxpayer which is not already available in the document in the operator's possession. No disclosure of information is involved. 
See answer to (1). 
The income tax law requires that the Commissioner of Taxation maintain secrecy regarding the affairs of taxpayers. The honourable member may be assured that the computer system will not be used, either in its present form or in future developments, in a way which would involve unlawful disclosure of information. 
 I am aware of this situation, as usual, via the zealous honourable member for Kalgoorlie - not the pale voice from the city representing the shareholders, but the person representing the workers. I gave an assurance in this House before that I was willing to listen to documented representations about this issue. I think it is a breach of faith on the side of those people who want some mercy, if you like, from the Government that they are trying to pressurise us by sacking the workers. I suggest that the honourable member use his good offices, if he has any, to call upon the board of management to reinstate those members of the staff pending the result of the representations being made. 
It is a fact of course that farmers are in debt as are many other sections of the community and none should get unfair treatment as against the rest. All I would suggest is that farmers are probably less in debt now than they were 12 months ago. They are certainly in receipt of better incomes now than they were some months ago. (Opposition members interjecting) - 

 - Mr Speaker, Opposition members are a bit more lively today than they have been for days. It seems that it takes a little bit of dissension in the Government side to stir the Opposition into any kind of activity. This morning I said to one member opposite, whom I will not name, that as yet I have not had an intelligent question bearing on my portfolio asked from that side of the House. 
If the Leader of the Country Party is offended. I withdraw the remark or the implication that it was an unintelligent question. 
If honourable members will do me the courtesy of listening, I will answer the question. I submit that when rebukes are sometimes handed out about the length of answers, some sort of rebuke could be made about the questions. Often the question that is asked is not a question but a series of questions and it is not always easy ito give a simple answer. After all, I do not think the Leader of the Country Party would deny that his question was asked with a little political loading. 
At least it is a political document. We can agree on that. If I may return to the question of the level of interest rates, I am as concerned as anybody about the level of interest rates which prevails in the community. If I had the time I would endeavour to indicate to honourable members, and it ought to have been obvious for some time, that recent moves that have been taken on what are called open market operations are taken primarily in the first instance about inflation and the volume of money. As yet there has been no variation in existing rates elsewhere. I think what the honourable gentleman is suggesting is that there should be selectivity in approach and I have no objection to that. The previous Government did that in relation to rural lending, but occasionally it has to be suggested that a concession given in one direction may mean, if one is not careful, a burden placed on somebody else. We are doing no great favour to people if we allow inflation to rage. The price of a farm may double and a new purchaser, while he may be consoled about the interest rate being kept separate or selective, would be a little more concerned if the price of his farm or of his house had to be less. One has to weigh all considerations. If inflation continues at the rate of 10 per cent- 
It was raging pretty well under other governments. I simply say this: If inflation continues at the rate of 10 per cent, let us say, 10 years - I am not saying that it should continue; I am saying if it continues - it would mean that the house a person bought now for $15,000 would cost him $40,000. Therefore the interest rate is not the only thing about which one has to be serious. One has to be serious about reducing rising prices. At least that is under consideration. 
I think the other one was, too. At least we have now heard the authentic voice of Kalgoorlie on what has been done. I am glad that the honourable member and I had that talk last night. It shows that he anticipates things, whereas the honourable member for Stirling merely picks up the unconsidered trifle. I believe that, if some mining activity in that State is in dire circumstances because of projected action in the Budget, it is about time those concerned made out the case to the Government. They have not done so as yet. I urge upon them, if they expect good faith on our side, that there should be no attempt to pressurise by dismissing workers in advance. I am pleased to have the assurance of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie that this has been done for entirely different reasons from those the honourable member for Stirling implied. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: . 
In my speech to Sydney's Royal Exchange on 22 June 1973 on 'Inflation', I said: 
The March quarter consumer price index, showing a sharp rise of 2.1 per cent, seemed to be taken in some quarters as indicating a drastic intensification in the underlying inflationary pressures in Australia. This is not so; the much larger rise than in earlier quarters reflected a rise of . 4.4 per cent in food prices, principally those of meat, potatoes and onions. These are items for which rapid changes in supply and demand conditions have had a major influence.' 
I went on to say: "There may indeed be reasons for thinking that Australia is entering a period when inflationary forces are likely to intensify and be particularly difficult to control. But the point is that the March quarter consumer price index 'did not provide evidence for any such proposition.'. -  
Certainly, any indications that inflation may be worsening are of concern to the Government. Indeed, I made that clear in my speech quoted above. In the last paragraph of that speech I concluded: 
Inflation is a complex and difficult problem. Regrettably, there are no easy answers; if there were, they would have long since been found when Governments all over the world have been searching for solutions. The Government believes that the approach has to be as broad as possible, attacking the problem from all sides.' 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the Patents Act 1962-1969 does not permit of any comprehensive review of patent licence payments. Under section 23 of the Act the Commissioner of Patents is ' required to register the title of a licensee on proof to his satisfaction of the title of the applicant. The only, sanction against failure to register a licence is to be found in section 31 wherein it is provided that in certain circumstances a document or instrument of which no entry has been made in the Register may be inadmissible in evidence in a court in proof of title to an interest in a patent. 
It will be seen from the foregoing that Patent Office records contain neither a complete record of patent licences nor the details of royalty payments. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 25 per cent reduction in protective tariffs has, on the one hand, a downward effect on customs revenue in 1973-74 due to the lower rates applying and, on the other, an upward effect due to the consequential increased flow of imports. It is not possible to estimate the net impact on revenue in 1973-74 with great confidence but for the purposes of estimating revenue from customs duty in 1973-74 a net cost to revenue of $80m was assumed. 
The Budget comprises numerous proposals involving expenditure increases and decreases and changes in rates of taxation and other charges. There is no question of taking specific steps to offset specific expenditure increases or revenue losses - the Budget is framed as a whole. It may be of interest to note, however, that despite the reduction in protective tariffs, revenue from customs duty is estimated to rise in 1973-74. As shown in Statement No. 5 attached to the Budget Speech revenue from customs duty at then existing rates of duty (that is, those applying after the cut In protective tariffs) is estimated to be $540m in 1973-74, $26.5m more than actual customs revenue in 1972-73. New measures affecting customs revenue announced in the Budget brought the estimate to $563. 8m, $50.3m more than in 1972- 73. 
In a statement issued on Thursday or Friday of last week I indicated what the Government intended to do about private companies' undistributed profits. That statement indicated that a uniform retention allowance of 50 per cent would apply. The Bill will be before the House in a month or so when we will be afforded the opportunity to debate the issues. 
Again I point out that open market operations are a legitimate weapon of monetary control and that those people who want to hold their bonds need have no fear whatever. 
I am sorry that I cannot congratulate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  on the presentation of his first economic case. Honourable members opposite ought to be very good judges of economic mismanagement because, after all, it was economic mismanagement that put them where they are now and put the Government where it is now. 
You cannot take votes in countries every day of the week or every 6 months. There were plenty of times when the previous Government could have gone to the country earlier and the result would have been very much different from what it is. It is very easy, of course, to quote the sets of figures that suit one best. I suppose it is good debate but sometimes it is also camouflage. I agree with .the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that inflation is a serious problem. It is hard to find any one satisfactory definition of inflation but sometimes it is described as too much money chasing too few goods. ' I shall quote some figures - I use an index that is used to evaluate them - dealing with what is called the volume of money. If one compares the volume of money in 2 periods it at least gives some indication of how money is being pumped into the economic system. Money, after all, ought to be a lubricant rather than a determinant and I think that sometimes that important factor is overlooked. 
The volume of money is made up of 3 rather curious components - notes and coins in the bands of the public, the deposits of the public with the trading banks and deposits of the public with the savings banks. Those 3 sets of figures, if taken at 30 June 1972, came in round figures to $17.5 billion. At 30 June 1973 the figure had risen from $17.5 billion to $22 billion, which was an increase in that single year of 25.7 per cent. In the period from 1970 to 1971 the proportionate increase was 6.8 per cent and from July .1971 to June 1972 the increase was 10.5 per cent, but after June 1973 the increase was 25.7 per cent. If we take, as an honourable member did at question time today, the 4 quarters of a calendar year and then handpick 2 other quarters, one can get some rather curious distortions. But if one looks at how that figure rose from $17.5 billion to $22 billion between 1 July 1972 and 30 June 1973 one finds that it increased by 6.8 per cent in the first quarter and by 9.2 per cent in the second quarter. In other words, the increase in the volume of money in the quarter from July to September was as high as had been the case for a whole year earlier. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Wentworth that if he wishes to draw the attention of the Chair to the state of the House he does so. In future if he make's a speech in doing so I will deal with him. It is not the appropriate time to make a speech. Ring the bells. (Quorum formed). 

I might say in courtesy to my friend who called for the numbers that before I rose I had seriously considered calling for a quorum. I happen to be a bit of a stickler for parliamentary proprieties. Discussion on a matter of public importance is one of the rare occasions in Parliament when those who do not have the numbers can take the initiative. I suggest that if a quorum is called for during other discussions of matters of public importance I will move that the question be now put. 
There was only one member of the Australian Country Party present. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member for Kennedy will withdraw that remark. 

At least what the honourable gentleman has asked me indicates that the problems cut across politics. We have taken, and are taking, a series of measures here to try to abate inflation. The greatest proponents I have heard in this House of the proposition that interest rates should rise consonant with inflation otherwise there will be a negative rate of interest payable come from the other side of the House. As always, one has to try to adjudicate between those who want to borrow money and those who have money to lend. My Treasury advisers put it in the rather subtle terms that there are some surplus areas and there are some deficit areas so far as having too much money and having too little money are concerned. Differential rates apply in any community. You do not get the same rate on a government bond as  you get on a debenture. Surely there is nothing wrong in endeavouring to be selective where possible. I would think that the honourable gentleman is a little categorical when he suggests that experts agree. The great difficulty I have is in trying to reconcile the opinions of experts and trying to decide overall which sort of situation serves the greatest number. I believe that at the moment, with the way that market forces have operated, some deserving people have not been able to get a house at all and some who have had superior financial claims have often been able to get a second house or a better house. 1 believe we are quite right in trying to be selective. If certain harsher measures have to be taken overall we are entitled to be selective to protect those who are not able to protect themselves. 
I have not seen the statement attributed to  Mr Jenkins  but it raises some interesting possibilities and shows that this question of grappling with inflation is not any simple problem with any one solution. I am prepared to look at the suggestions. 
 I must say that I am disappointed at the attitude taken by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I will read the title of the Bill again. It reads: 
To alter the Constitution so as to enable the Australian Parliament to control prices. 
That will be achieved by a very simple amendment to add a new placitum by inserting in section 51 of the Constitution a new clause, '(xivA.) Prices:'. 
If the honourable member will give me time I will endeavour to explain what it does mean and I hope to do it with a little less invective and some less personal abuse than the honourable gentleman used in the matter. The Leader of the Opposition claims to be a believer in something that he describes as a prices and incomes policy. He does not say what prices or what incomes but in criticism of this measure which is concerned about prices he asks the hypothetical question: 'What prices?' I would have thought that at least there would have been something genuine in his endeavour if he had said, 'Yes, I want control over prices and incomes', and the had moved to have a separate Bill that he could bring down to alter the Constitution so as to enable the Australian Parliament to control incomes. Then we would have the two. 
Yes, put as 2 separate propositions. 
No, they would be put as 2 separate propositions so that the people of Australia could choose. They could have both; they could have neither; they could have one or the other. Now what is wrong with that? 
It is not necessarily a question of both or none. I would ray it is very easy after you have been in government for 23 years, as honourable members opposite were, to seize on the most convenient set of statistics since you have been out of government. The Leader of the Opposition ignores a lot of things from his record. He was not even correct. I hasten not to use the word 'dishonest' because he occasionally just misreads. He says: 'Under us inflation was falling*. If one takes the statistics published for the last quarters in the period 1971-72, all in the period of the previous Government shows that in the consumer price index, which was what the honourable gentleman uses, should a 1.9 per cent increase over the previous September quarter and a 2.3 per cent increase in December. I suppose I could conveniently multiply that by four and say that it was then running 9.2 per cent. In March, it fell to 1 per cent; in June it fell to 0.9 per cent; in September it rose to 1.4 per cent and in December it fell slightly to 1.2 per cent. 
I draw to the attention of honourable members the state of the economy at that stage. It was an economy in depression; it was an economy that had the highest level of unemployment in the post-war period of Australia. It was a period also, as I indicated yesterday, that showed the highest historic increase in the volume of money which, after all, is some indicator of the potential for inflation. Once again I point out to the members of the Australian Country Party that, if one is being fair about this sort of thing, the main reason that the consumer price index was worse in the first 2 quarters of our operation of Government was because of increases in food prices, particularly meat prices. If one were to take out of the consumer price index the effects of food prices, inflation would be no worse now than it was when the previous Government was in office. 
I do not want to cavil at this sort of thing. When I am asked, as I have been asked, what J think the rate of inflation ought to be I can only give the sort of general statement that it ought to be as low as it is possible to get it. Nevertheless, a 10 per cent rate of inflation is better than 13 per cent; 8 per cent is better than 10 per cent and nought per cent is better than any of them, but no honourable member would want to bring the level of inflation down to nought unless there were some catastrophic effects on the economy as a whole. At least the Government will not purchase the halt of inflation by depressing the economy or creating unemployment. I wish in many ways that the sort of economy over which I had to preside was one of gloom rather than one of inflation because it is a lot easier to take corrective measures when there is unemployment than it is to take corrective measures in a condition, of over-employment, not only of labour but of other resources as well. 
Much has been said about a so-called prices and incomes policy. In the long term every Western democracy will have to have a prices and incomes policy because neither the existing mechanisms for market forces for adjudicating prices nor the existing mechanisms for determining wages are just or adequate in the technological age in which we live. How can one equate the performance of every individual, whatever his service may be, in terms that are either sensible or equitable? How in a world - surely to goodness we all applaud this - that in the future will have excess of demand and shortages of supply in considerable areas, can some rise in the level of prices be avoided? What is not acknowledged in the world, particularly by the United States of America, is that there are no more banana republics left. 
Well, the honourable member's Party has turned Queensland into one. Every country believes in the revolution of rising expectations - and why not? It will no longer allow its surplusage of foodstuffs to become the plaything of the pricing of the affluent Western democracies. We have still been disposed to do that in the use of minerals in this country. What is the good of extracting minerals from beneath the earth if you do not receive enough by selling them to cover the reasonable costs of production of those who produce them? Surely whether it is minerals, primary materials or manufactured products, everybody who produces them is entitled to a fair standard of payment for that production. 
Whether honourable members opposite like it or not - they are the ones who will profit from it - the primary producer is as entitled as everybody else to receive fair prices for what he sells. But he is not entitled to bellyache, when he does, that the consumer price index has gone up and to say that it has gone up because of the mismanagement by this Government. To do that is to display either economic dishonesty or an incapability of economic analysis. The Leader of the Opposition may jeer about my style but he could do with a hell of a lot of lectures on the fundamentals of economics. He has one or two honourable members on his side of the House who could assist him to do better than he dees. Let me return to the question of the prices and incomes policy. The trade union move ment, which is the movement that supports the Australian Labor Party and which that Party supports- 
'Dictate' is one of those nice easy words that slip off one's tongue while closing one's mind. The trade union movement believes that for nearly 65 years it has had to justify the wage arbitration system in this country. If there are now some areas outside that system, it is because they have not been conciliatory and have not arbitrated in the course of their history. The trade union movement asks why, if its members' wages have to be justified before some tribunal, the price makers also should not have to go through some justification process. I say this, and I will continue to say it: The minimum condition in Australia of achieving a prices and incomes policy - honourable members opposite can put this on record because it is not the first time I have said it - is not primarily the passing of laws; the minimum condition is as the trade union movement believes, that if wages must be justified something systematic must be done about prices. In the long term every country must face this. When that has been done and when some sort of mechanism for the regulating of prices has been built up, as now exists for regulating wages, then and not before can we begin to talk about a prices and incomes policy. 
Taking them in aggregate, there is more diversity about prices than there is about incomes. Prices can range from primary production to the products of extractive industries to partly manufactured products, to completely manufactured products and then to retail prices and services. But if one looks at the other side of the social equation - it can be seen in the White Paper on National Income - one sees that the greatest single source of income in the community is wages and salaries. That is the sole source of income for about 85 per cent to 90 per cent of the Australian population. In the past endeavours have been made to regulate wages. It ought to be relatively much more simple to regulate prices than to regulate wages because the great dilemma in a capitalist system is always that it depends in the long run on rising consumer expenditure in real terms. The greatest source of that expenditure is the increase in real wages. The greatest robber of real wages is uncontrolled inflation. 
The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  asked me a question this morning about interest rates. Whatever the levels are now or whatever levels are contemplated, they are less than they are in some other parts of the world. If one wants to try to apportion blame one can say that when the last Labor government went out of office the long term bond rate was 34 per cent and wages were much less than they are now. Who is to take the credit for the fact that in the period from 1949 to 1972 the interest rate rose to 7 per cent? 
Of course it is history. But honourable members opposite are like Aneurin Bevan who once said about his political opponents that they are in favour of every revolution except the next one. The Opposition is now carping about the Government doing what the Opposition would have had to do in higher degree if it had remained in office after 2 December 1972. It is time that there was a little bit of objective analysis. Honourable members opposite who have criticised the Budget have been asked what they would have cut down in government expenditure. Would they have cut down on social services? Would they have cut down the provisions for education? Would they have cut down the improvements in the health field or the grants to the States? It is easy enough to make loud noises of protest. I now know that there is a lot more luxury in Opposition about what one can say. I have often said that I do not regard my words as any more weighty now that I am on this side of the House than when I was on the other side but they are certainly weighed much more carefully. I sometimes wonder about the kind of logic of people who quote what I said 2 years ago, when it suits them, as though it were Holy Writ and then criticise what I said the day before as being utter nonsense. All of us will quote nonsense at times: none of us is immune from that. But in a debate of this magnitude and importance the Government is arguing that it does not believe the sort of powers that the Opposition claims should be exercised - whether they should be exercised permanently or temporarily is a matter for argument - can be exercised separately. They must be exercised at the national level. 
About 14 years ago the previous Government set up a committee to review the Australian Constitution. That Committee, not in its major report but in its interim report, said that what Australia lacked was the ability to pursue an integrated economic policy. That was true when this Government took office. I repeat that what the Budget in itself can do is distinctly limited. The Budget is primarily a parliamentary document that sets out what the Government wants to spend in a period of 12 months. Like everybody else - with the minor exception of those who can run a deficit and not go broke - the Government cannot spend a dollar unless it gets it. That is basically what the Budget is about. It covers only a quarter of economic activity in Australia. The rest of that economic activity is still carried on by what honourable members opposite rather grandly describe as good old private enterprise. No longer in this world can private enterprise go on quite as untrammelled in the circumstances of 1973 as it did in the circumstances of 1933. There are strange people such as ecologists and others - I do not use 'strange* in the sense that they are nuts - who have a great consciousness that the environment to which they belong has some importance in itself and ought not to be there just for the rapacity of private profit. That at least is a circumstance which has changed. Another thing that has changed is that if there is to be a change in the quality of life - as we on this side of the chamber believe - there has to be a change in the overall disposition as between public and private investment - more in favour of public investment and less in favour of private investment. 
A prices and incomes policy in the long run will be necessary to achieve that. But the first step should be in the name of the majority of people in Australia who are concerned - the concern is at the level of what they buy in the shops at the retail prices of Sydney and Melbourne, for example - and who believe that governments can do a lot about prices. They are not arguing about incomes at this stage. That is a piece of successful camouflage to do nothing. The Opposition can take its own gallup poll - it is pretty keen to take them for the matters which suit it - and ask the woman who comes out of a shop what she thinks about the prices system. She will say that she thinks that it is crook. If she is asked who she thinks should do something about it she will say: "The Government'. She will not mean the local government or the State government; she will mean the national Government in Canberra. In this simple proposition we are seeking nationally, the powers that are necessary to halt the aggravation of what are great national problems. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Approximately $ 17.0m in respect of the 1973-74 income year. 
In broad terms, yes. 
Consideration of this matter is proceeding. 
The recommended salary increases operate from 1 January 1973. A preliminary estimate of the cost to the Commonwealth on account of University academic staff is $M.6m in 1973 and, after allowing for the assumption  of  full financial responsibility by the Commonwealth for tertiary education, $30m in 1974. The Australian Government has indicated that it supports the application of the recommended salary increases, as appropriate, to colleges of advanced education; preliminary estimates of the resultant cost to the Commonwealth are $3. 9m in 1973 and $11. 2m in 1974. (5) Yes. 
Papua New Guinea Residents: Applications for Permanent Residence in Australia  (Question No. 771) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government, through the Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission, is examining the requirements for the delivery of health care to the community. Included in this examination is the provision of transport to and from health services. The Government does not wish to pre-empt any recommendation by. the Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission relating to the provision of ambulance services. 
New Legislation of the Australian Parliament' (Question  No. 846) 
The honourable member will be aware that there is a Bill before the House at the moment dealing with tax havens in Norfolk Island and other territories. We are closing that loophole effectively. In the course of speaking during that debate I indicated that we will take all measures necessary and show no mercy to any other unscrupulous people who try to shift the origin of what is obviously income derived in Australia to something called a tax haven. We can legislate directly about our Territories. We will have to use other methods as far as Australians endeavouring to use areas outside our territorial jurisdiction are concerned. But we are well aware of the attempts and we will more than match the skill and the ingenuity of those who are trying to evade the payment of tax. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is assumed that the honourable member is interested in the numbers of companies which have business receipts of more than $20m a year and are, therefore, subject to the provisions of the Prices Justification Act. In my Second Reading Speech when introducing the Prices Justification Bill in Parliament, I said that in 1970-71 there were over 350 companies in Australia with business receipts in excess of $20m. Of these companies, none was included in the classification primary industry, 147 were classified to the manufacturing, electricity, gas and water group and 112 were in the wholesale and retail industry. 
This information cannot be made available. 
I present the following paper: 
The 52nd report of the Commissioner of Taxation dated1 October 1973. 
I move: 
That the paper be printed. 
Honourable members will recall that it is the practice of the House to agree forthwith to the motion to print this paper so that it may be covered by parliamentary privileges. This course has the concurrence of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  When the motion to print is agreed to, the report will be circulated immediately. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Firstly I would ask the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  instead of looking only at page 124, to look at page 128. He would find that the $32,500,000- 
Thirty-two million dollars That is the major part of the difference between $91m and $132m. It is to cover increased salary payments as a result of recent awards to all sections of the Public Service and not to the Treasury in particular. That makes a fundamental difference to the kind of remarks the honourable member made. I think that some of his other general observations were just as inaccurate in the total context. I do not want to say anything more on that subject because one scarcely replies to abysmal ignorance of that kind. I am trying to be as kind as I can, but I suggest that it shows what little attempt is made in these Estimates to look at what the expenditure is supposed to be about. After all, the Estimates are details of what the Government expects to spend on certain purposes for the period to 30 June 1974. I do not want to say anything more about that. 
But I would say, in response to the many general remarks that have been made, that I will take note of certain comments that have been made and, whilst I cannot reply to all of them tonight, I will endeavour to supply the honourable members with detailed replies for which they asked. In relation to the 

 Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Lynch)  who now leads for his Party in these matters, I would suggest that some of the things he has asked me to give definitive answers upon are scarcely relevant in an estimates debate. 1 assure him that I intend to make a statement as soon as I possibly can about the recent meetings of the Committee of Twenty, of the annual meeting of the Board of the Bank and of the International Monetary Fund. He will be given an opportunity to reply in detail. I hope that as well as making a speech I will be able to attach to it, as I did upon a previous occasion, some of the areas of difficulty. In many respects, I suppose, the annual meeting of the Bank and the Fund were disappointing because they did not achieve what some people thought they ought to achieve. I do not think that anyone who had closely followed the deliberations of the Committee of Twenty would have been surprised that no final answers were given. I felt that all that had been achieved at the Washington March meetings was to get agreement as to what the areas of disagreement were. To propound solutions to these disagreements one will have to await a meeting which is scheduled for late January and another one perhaps in April or May 1974. It is hoped that there will be something for the next annual meeting which will take place in September or October 1974- 
I am not too sure that at times it would not be a bad idea if some members of the Opposition as well as of the Government attended some of these meetings just as they do at the United Nations. It certainly was never done to me when I was the shadow Treasurer. It may have made it easier for me to realise the difference between substance and shadow earlier than I did. However, that is by the way. I find a little inconsistency, if I may say so, in the complaints about increasing the total of employment in the Public Service and the demands which some of the former Ministers are now making for additional research staff. I think that this shows how poverty stricken they left the office of Opposition, not knowing that they would soon be the inheritors of it. I must say that I am not unkind towards their submissions because I think the debates in this Parliament would be better if they were better informed. The honourable gentleman who preceded me is a pretty good example of that. Had he come and talked to me a few minutes earlier 1 might have been able to illustrate the point to him and perhaps save 10 minutes of the time of the Parliament. But I thank those members who have asked seriously for details on matters that concern them. I do not want to trespass on the time of other estimates but, as I have indicated, I assure them that I shall endeavour to provide more detailed replies for them. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $89,326,000. 
We chose to give a wider range of options. I suggest that the right honourable gentleman ask his question in a fortnight's time when the loan is closed. 
I thank the honourable member for his question. I will be most pleased indeed to meet his request. 
Perhaps the best way to answer the question is to point out that the Prime Minister, myself and other Ministers are meeting with the Premiers tomorrow with a view to better integrating local government into the overall financial processes. I would prefer therefore to leave the matter open. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Banking Bill is one of 4 Australian Bills required to transfer the responsibility for the control and supervision of banking in Papua New Guinea to the Papua New Guinea Government and its authorities and to pave the way for the establishment of a separate Papua New Guinea banking system and central bank. 
At present the Australian Government's legislation, namely the Reserve Bank Act, the Banking Act and the Commonwealth Banks Act, extends to Papua New Guinea and, accordingly, the responsibility for control and supervision of banking in that country rests with the Australian Government and, in particular, with the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
The effect of these Bills will be to withdraw the application of this Australian legislation to Papua New Guinea at a date to be agreed with the Papua New Guinea Government and to facilitate the transfer of responsibilities. 
The transfer of such responsibilities in this important area is essential for a country shortly to achieve self-government and moving towards independence. It will also open the way for the development of a banking and financial system appropriate to the particular needs and circumstances of Papua New Guinea and will ensure control by Papua New Guinea in the planning of future developments in these areas. The development of a separate banking system for Papua New Guinea was the subject of a detailed examination by a committee of Australian and Papua New Guinea Government officials established by the previous Australian Government. The report of that committee, which was tabled in the Australian Parliament on 29 August 1973, was accepted in principle by the Papua New Guinea Government as a suitable basis for action to establish a separate banking system in Papua New Guinea. 
The principles on which the Papua New Guinea banking system is to be established were set out in a joint Press statement which was issued by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison),  the Papua New Guinea Minister for Finance and myself in April 1973. Those principles include: That responsibility for control of banks and financial institutions operating in Papua New Guinea be vested in the Papua New Guinea authorities as soon as practicable; that a central bank be established in Papua New Guinea on the basis of the Port Moresby office of the Reserve Bank of Australia and be endowed with a full range of powers to act as a central monetary authority for a separate banking system, even though some of these powers could not be usedin the immediate future; that a national banking institution be established in Papua New Guinea through the setting up of a new Papua New Guinea Government commercial bank; and that except where certain accounts give rise to special contractual or financial problems the Papua New Guinea business of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation be transferred to the Papua New Guinea Government Commercial Bank. 
These principles are embodied in 2 ordinances relating to banking which have recently been passed by the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly. The first of these ordinances is the Central Banking Ordinance which authorises the establishment of Papua New Guinea's own central bank to be called the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The Bank will take over the role at present carried out in that country by the Reserve Bank of Australia. The Australian Government included in its grant to Papua New Guinea this financial year financial assistance to help in the establishment of this new central bank. The second ordinance is the Banks and Financial Institutions Ordinance which contains the detailed provisions relating to the licensing and supervision of banks and financial institutions. The Papua New Guinea Government has indicated its intention, if possible, to bring these 2 ordinances into force on 1 November 1973. 
Since the Australian banking legislation extends at present to Papua New Guinea, the Papua New Guinea Government can bring these ordinances into operation only when the application of the Australian banking legislation to that country is withdrawn. I commend to the House this Banking Bill, designed to allow the withdrawal of the application of the Australian Banking Act to Papua New Guinea, and the other associated Bills which I am introducing concurrently to facilitate the establishment of a separate banking system in Papua New Guinea. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill now be read a second time. 
The Commonwealth Banks Act is the third of the Australian Acts relating to banking which extend to Papua New Guinea. This Act is being amended to provide that, at a date to be determined, Papua New Guinea will be excluded from the operation of the Act. This Bill is related to the agreement outlined in my joint Press statement in April 1973 that, subject to further consideration of particular aspects, the greater part of the Papua New Guinea business of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation be transferred to a new Papua New Guinea Government Commercial Bank which is to be established. As I indicated in the paper 'Australia's External Aid 1973-74' which was presented on the occasion of my 1973-74 Budget Speech, a payment of $15m will be made to the Papua New Guinea Government in 1973-74 to facilitate the establishment of this proposed Government Commercial Bank. 
Given the commercial nature of this activity, the financial assistance to be provided for this purpose will comprise a grant of $1Om and a repayable advance - the exact terms of which have yet to be determined - which is currently estimated at $5m but could vary depending upon the level of and trends in deposits and advances, etc., when final settlement occurs. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 

I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the withdrawal of the application of the Reserve Bank Act to Papua New Guinea. As I indicated in introducing the Banking Bill, this Bill is to facilitate the establishment of a separate banking system in Papua New Guinea subject to local control and with its own central bank. 
The Bill also provides for specific authority for the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia to lend to associations of co-operative associations as well as individual co-operative associations engaged in primary production. This minor amendment, which would have retrospective application from March 1971, removes any legal doubts there might be about the authority of the Rural Credits Department of the Bank to lend to these associations of co-operatives. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill allows for the transfer of certain assets and liabilities from the Reserve Bank of Australia to the Bank of Papua New Guinea, the country's proposed new central bank. It also provides for the transfer of certain assets and liabilities from the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to the proposed new Papua New Guinea Government owned commercial bank. The provision relating to the Reserve Bank comes in force from the date that the Reserve Bank Act ceases to apply to Papua New Guinea. On that date the Reserve Bank will hand over all the business which it conducts at its Port Moresby branch. The Bill makes provision for a financial settlement between the 2 banks arising from this transfer. The provision relating to the Commonwealth Banking Corporation will come into force on the date the Commonwealth Banking Act ceases to apply to Papua New Guinea. The Bill provides for certain business of the Commonwealth Trading Banks and the Commonwealth Savings Bank in Papua New Guinea to be transferred to the proposed new Papua New Guinea Government commercial bank with any necessary settlement to be effective on terms agreed between the 2 Governments. Certain accounts of the Commonwealth Trading Bank giving rise to special contractual or financial problems will not be transferred to the Papua New Guinea Bank and this business will be conducted at a special branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank opened for that purpose and which will be excluded from the transfer. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) In answering a question without notice by the honourable member for Hawker  in  the House on 22 August 1973 (Hansard, page 192), the Treasurer reiterated his intention to introduce legislation for a scheme of controls over non-bank financial institutions as soon as possible and that he hoped to be able to do so later this session. (l)(b), (2) and (3) (a) The Treasurer and Treasury officers have already had preliminary discussions with representative bodies from various sectors of the finance industry and the Treasurer has indicated that further discussions will be held with industry representatives before legislation is introduced. It is the aim of the Government to give the industry adequate opportunity to express its views. 
(b) There will be an opportunity for debate and public discussion following the introduction of the legislation in the House. 
I have said on several occasions that I regard the resort to tax havens by anybody as a despicable practice and I will take any action whatever that is possible in Australia against moves to have transferred from Australia for the evasion of tax funds that ought to be properly taxed. There is some difficulty in operating in areas that are not our Territories. The action we took with respect to Norfolk Island was action we could legislate upon internally. In regard to other areas, I will have to rely on banking powers and exchange regulations, and I will use them to the utmost rigour of the law. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to the right honourable member's question No. 707 was incorporated in Hansard on 25 September 1973. 
by leave - I rise to inform the House that the Government has decided to extend the range of income over which aged people will be entitled to the full rebate of $156 announced in my Budget Speech as part of an overall pensions and taxation package. It had been intended that the rebate would phase out for taxable incomes above $2,236 but the Government has now decided, in the light of representations it has received, to propose that the full rebate of $156 will apply for taxable incomes up to $3,224. It will be reduced by 25 cents for each $1 of taxable income above $3,224, so that aged people with taxable income of as much as $3,847 will benefit from the special rebate. I will be saying more about the new arrangements, and the reasons for them, when the necessary legislation is introduced. I am confident that they will be found to provide an appropriate set of rules for elderly people. More than 80 per cent of pensioners will not be called on to pay tax or lodge tax returns for 1973-74 and the extended rebate will provide additional relief for those who will be asked to pay some tax. I present the following paper: 
Tax rebate for aged people - Ministerial Statement, 17 October 1973. 
There have been a lot of complaints about long answers. I think equally there should be some complaint about long questions. I am quite prepared at another opportunity to examine the so-called facts that the right honourable gentleman has interpreted in his own way. I say briefly that the import price index has fallen. I say also that the time when revaluation took place was also a time of rising world prices. 
Fair enough. The circumstances would have been even worse had the revaluation not taken place. The other thing is that imports are increasing. 
The right honourable gentleman takes a month in isolation. I suggest that he take a quarter or 6 months. There is nothing worse than the selective use of statistics and politely multiplying them by 12 or 4 or 6 to get an annual figure. I regard that as an abuse of statistics. I will consider the question raised by the right honourable gentleman and give him a detailed answer. 
I did not indicate that inflation would get worse; I indicated that inflation would not stop. If any member of this House thinks it would have stopped had there been a different government, he is entitled to that misapprehension. As to the figure which was released last week, I rather obliquely described it in one place as ancient history because it records prices for the most part as they were on 15 August last. I do not think any member of this House could tell me of anything that has fallen in price since 15 August. It is now one month into the following quarter. I merely indicated what I thought was quite frank and honest - after all, Frank is my name - that it is unlikely that the consumer price index for the December quarter will decline. It is true that it may decline relatively. I hope it may increase less than 3.6 per cent but there is no certainty that it will. 
Well, God did not help you much in the past, particularly on 2 December. If the honourable gentleman, who represents a rural seat, looks at those figures he will find that half of the increase in the consumer price index is accounted for by the higher incomes which the people he represents are receiving.  Mr Speaker,  I hesitate to use the word 'humbug', but it seems to me that it is humbug that those who are receiving higher prices should complain because the consumer price index has risen. I indicated that if at the autumn session, which is some months off, the $1.50 projected pension increase seemed inadequate taking into account what the consumer price index might show by March we would be prepared to look at the pension rate again. 
My attention has been drawn to the conduct of certain insurance companies mentioned by the honourable gentleman and I shall certainly bring it to the attention of the new insurance commissioner. I would think that the commissioner has probably already had it brought to his attention. Of course, it was the misconduct of certain firms dealing with general insurance that made necessary the legislation that was drawn up by the previous government and ultimately passed by the present Government. I hope to be able to make an announcement in a short time about an expert committee. It has taken some time to set up the general insurance office, to get it staffed and to get it premises. I had a talk with  Mr Bassett  last week. We are considering personnel for the committee. The third part of the honourable gentleman's question related to insurance brokers. Discussions have been held in Canberra between officials of the Australian Government and representatives of insurance underwriters. A draft scheme for supervisory legislation has reached a fairly advanced stage of preparation. The insurance brokers associations and representatives of insurance - underwriters are currently making submissions on the proposed legislation. Furthermore, there have been communications between the Prime Minister and the State Premiers seeking agreement to a meeting of Australian Government and State officials to discuss the introduction of the proposed legislation. 
 I think a lot of lip-service is paid to so-called consumer protection legislation which exists in the hands of the States but which is very little utilised. I think this ought to be a matter that concerns the people of New South Wales on 17 November. There is a lot of buck passing about what can or should be done in regard to powers which have been latent in the hands of the States for a good number of years but which have never been utilised. I believe that the best place to look after retail pricing, particularly of household goods, is at State level. I suggest as an alternative that the honourable member might consult with our colleague in this House who is  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Prices with a view to referring this matter for consideration by that Committee. 
I would say that as usual the honourable gentleman is behind hand with his information. The interest rates, as he knows, have been increased. Before they were increased discussions were held, as they should be, between the Reserve Bank and the trading banks. Whether the Governor of the Reserve Bank used the picturesque language that the Leader of the Opposition has attributed to him I do not know but I think he told them something of the sort that the gist of the words used by the honourable member would suggest. 
I am surprised that one who has been a former Treasurer should ask such a question. It is hypothetical to begin with and I will not answer hypothetical questions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The decision to cut all non-revenue tariffs by 25 per cent was taken by the full Cabinet. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A special income tax deduction for the capital cost of constructing dams, earth tanks, underground tanks, irrigation channels or similar improvements, or the sinking of bores or wells, for the purpose of conserving or conveying water for use in primary production, was introduced by the Chifley Government in 1947. The concession was extended in 1961 to include expenditure on pipes placed underground to convey water for primary production purposes and. in 1969, to include the cost of concrete tanks and tank stands. 
The relevant Budget proposal will alter the timing of the income tax dedications for capital expenditure of these kinds that are made after 21 August 1973, otherwise than under a contract entered into before that day. Generally, capital expenditure on improvements used for the conserv ing of water will be deductible to a primary producer over 10 years in equal annual instalments. However, the cost of structural improvements used for the storage of water, e.g., concrete tanks, will be allowed in the form of general depreciation deductions over the estimated effective life of the item. The timing of income tax deductions for capital expenditure incurred under a contract made before 22 August 1973 or for ordinary recurring business expenditure that is not of a capital nature will not be affected by the Budget proposal. These outgoing will continue to be deductible in full in the year in which they are incurred. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and  (2)  Neither the Platform of the Australian Labor Party nor the Election Policy Speech lists as policy the suggestion that all moneys collected as petrol taxes be used solely for road systems. 
As a general principle, the linking or 'hypothecation' of particular tax revenues to particular expenditures is to be avoided. Government expenditures for whatever purposes are undertaken to satisfy the needs of the community and the resources allocated towards meeting those needs should be in accordance with the priorities which the Government of the day attaches to particular problems, and not simply on the basis of the revenue collected from a particular tax. Unless expenditure proposals compete for a share of revenue on their merits, lower priority but ear-marked expenditures may get precedence over higher-priority expenditures. 
Hypothecation can also lead to a weakening of fiscal control and flexibility if both the expenditures and revenues concerned cannot be varied for economic management purposes. Tax rates may need to be altered on economic management grounds but there is no reason to expect that the desired level of expenditure on activities that might be linked with them should move in step. Under the prevailing system of general revenue financing, expenditures draw on the common revenue pool and can be varied in response to decisions and needs. 
The funds provided by the Australian Government to the States for road expenditure have not been linked to raisings from petrol taxes for many years. This government, like its predecessor, takes the view that expenditures on roads should be determined in the light of evaluation of road needs and of the relative priorities for expenditure on other important services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) The Government keeps economic developments, including developments in incomes and prices policies, in major economies overseas under continuing notice and study. There is of course a distinction between that process and the preparation of formal studies, of a kind which might be suitable for publication, which the honourable member appears to have in mind. 
I wish to devote most of my time to talking about the first prong in this devastating attack that has been launched from the Opposition. The first prong is that the Government no longer possesses the confidence of the House because of its failure to exercise proper- 
No, I was being sarcastic. I said 'the devastating attack from the Opposition'. I was quite clear in what I said, but lnc right honourable gentleman does not always see the joke. I begin by saying that we did nol inherit a good economy despite what the former Government, the present Opposition, might say. I want to give one or two illustrations of that and then I want to go on to talk for the most part about the question of inflation, because I think it needs to be talked about. Yesterday I was given some figures which deal with the latest figures available for what is described as civilian employment in Australia, that is, total employment of males and females in all sorts of employment, public and private, manufacturing and service, and so on. These figures showed that between August 1972 and August 1973 the number of persons in civilian employment increased by 183,000. I asked my officers, as a matter of interest, to give me the increase in civilian employment from August 1971 to August 1972, and I got the answer that the increase for that period was 46,400 as against 183,000, an increase of 46,400 in an economy that ought to have been finding close to 200,000 new jobs. In the month of August - this August - alone the increase was 19,500  -  in one month as against 46,400 in 12 months, the record of the previous Goverment. We on this side of the House at least believe that it is better to have full employment than unemployment. Another figure worthy of consideration is that for gross domestic product expressed in what are called constant prices. If one took the first half of the financial year ended June 1973, which was the period of the previous Government, and took the index for gross non-farm product, which was running at 2.9 per cent increase for that 6 months, one sees that at June 1973 it was running at 4.4 per cent. I am not going to multiply each of those by two to draw the sort of conclusions that are drawn in this House by taking the figures for the quarter or the month that best suit one's argument. 
I want now to talk about inflation, and I acknowledge, as should everybody in Australia, that inflation is a serious problem. Inflation is not a new problem. For those who want to continue to look at the consumer price index, the main difference in the rate of inflation in the last 2 quarters as against the 2 previous quarters - if you want that comparison - is made up by increases in food prices. And I would say that the last people in Australia who should talk about staggering inflation  aTe  the members of the Country Party because they represent those who are the recipients of the increased income that comes from higher food prices. 
I am not objecting to it. What I am objecting to is the cant and the humbug of those who want to look to the consumer price index and say to us: 'What are you going to do about it?' If the members of the Liberal and Counntry parties who reckon everybody else is so short on solutions will come up with a solution between themselves as to how they can stop the CPI from rising- 
 Of course you cannot unless you do certain things and take certain actions. I thought, until a few weeks ago, that the Leader of the Opposition had found a new word; he seemed to say it very quickly - 4--:---,- 6----, Now when it is suggested that separate powers should be given over prices in one area and incomes in another, he does not want to have anything to do with it. I have said before, and I will say again that I can understand there being laws for prices. I can understand, in some context, that there can be laws for incomes, but I am blowed if I know what laws about prices and incomes are. They are 2 sides of the social syndrome and the Opposition wants to look at only one of those sides. We on this side of the House say that the major part of incomes in Australia- that is, wages - is subject to some sort of regulation and justification, but no such arbitration, justification, notification, call it what you will, applies to prices. If ever there is to be what can be called a prices and incomes policy in Australia we will not get it until we show that we want to do something about prices. That is what we have sought to do. 
The Leader of the Opposition is a great one for asking: 'What are you going to do about inflation?'. Yet he pours cold water on every single thing that has been done. Revaluation did have some impact. As I said in answer to a question recently, coincident with revaluation was a rise in world prices. That, to some extent, camouflaged the effects of revaluation, but the circumstance would have been even more serious on prices had revaluations not taken place. 
That is a part of the questions I want to deal with as well. Much has been said about imported inflation. This is a term that can mean different things to different people. Inflation partly is imported. One of the reasons for high food prices, for instance, in Australia at present is the rising demand outside Australia. One does not sell inside Australia at a price different from the prices outside unless there is some method of subsidy or something of that kind. As I said the other day, America, in the face of there no longer being any banana republics left in the world, has to pay higher prices for its raw materials, including energy, and this in turn impacts upon the prices of goods and services that are purchased from America, from Japan and from other parts of the world. This situation is not unique to Australia, yet it is suggested that it has happened only because of what the Opposition describes as the mismanagement of the last two or three months. The Leader of the Opposition this morning carefully selected, as he always does, some figures from the Reserve Bank about the value of money. He said that according to the figures for the last 9 months for which figures were available the volume of money had increased by 13 per cent. He should have gone back a little further in search for figures because in the period July 1972 to December 1972 the volume of money rose by 17 per cent. That was in a 6-month period. At least there has been some abatement to the 13 per cent for the 9 months he mentioned. I wish that sometimes he would do his arithmetic completely. 
You can terrify people, I suppose, by harping too much on inflation in relation to the consumer price index. Perhaps as a truism it ought to be said that inflation never bankrupts a whole country. What inflation does is to work unevenly on certain sections of the community. Two of the areas at the moment in which the balance is shifting is between those who eat food and those who sell food. It can be argued that those who sell food have not been receiving the price they should have received in previous years. But if they receive the price they should receive, the last thing that honourable members opposite should complain about is that the consumer price index figure has gone up and that as a consequence other people are seeking increases in their income to maintain the sort of standards they previously had. 
If we could have obtained some serious contribution to this debate from the Opposition then perhaps the censure motion could have proved worth while. But as usual, it is a shabby attack based on selective statistics and represents an ignoring of the problem. Nobody needed to be a prophet to know roughly what would be the increase in the consumer price index figure that was released a few days ago. For the most part, it was based on prices as at 15 August 1973. The next consumer price index figure to be released will be based mainly on prices as they operate on 15 November 1973, which is not very far off. As I said yesterday, if anybody can tell me of anything that has fallen in price substantially between the- 
They are not reflected in the consumer price index, nor, fortunately for me, is the price of spirits. All I am saying is that honourable members opposite want to look at the position a little more closely sometimes, get behind the camouflage and look at the substance. Something can be done for some sections of the community who cannot look after themselves with the rage of inflation. That group consists of those who receive social service payments. We have done this even with respect to those who are retired public servants by tying their payments to an index that reflects the cost of living. 
But what substantial contribution has come from honourable members opposite today in any way suggesting that the consumer price index when it comes out early in January will show an increase of something like 3 per cent? Let us assume that it does. Is the country going to fall down in the next 3 months because of that? Is not our job to try to get right priorities and balance in the economy? I am intrigued that we are told that we are spending too much on Government expenditure. Yet the right honourable gentleman opposite wants to increase defence expenditure by $300m because it would represent some mythical figure cited as 3.2 per cent of the gross domestic product. This country since 1963 - during 10 years of which period, honourable members opposite were in office - has spent SI 0,000m on defence. It was all built around that marvellous bird called the F-111. Thank God our potential enemies were gentlemen and did not attack us whilst we did not have it. Now we have it, we have to find different enemies because the aeroplane will not fly to where it was supposed to have flown in 1963. Who are honourable members opposite to arraign this Government for what it has not done in 10 months? During that 10 months what we have had in defence has been largely what we inherited from them as it will be for the next 2 or 3 years. 
That is also true about the economy. The direction of an economy cannot be changed shortly. The former Government laid the seeds of inflation in the first 6 months of the first Budget of the former Treasurer. It was reflected in the rapid increase in the volume of money. I said to him the other day that in my view he was the supreme blasphemer because he now uses against the present Government the very things upon which he justified his own existence. I believe that the public of Australia see through that threadbare sort of situation. There are more people in employment in Australia today receiving higher wages than they received before and they have more purchasing power than they had before. The backbone of an economy is not the particular section that produces the food or raises the wool. The backbone of an expanding economy is, in the long run, rising consumer purchasing power in the hands of the great majority of the people. 
It is no easy task to get equity between all the sections that combine in making up the national product. That is one reason why the Government believes that on 8 December the Opposition and the population of Australia should support the giving to the Commonwealth Government of powers which, at the moment, are shared and which, because they are shared, are not used. What was there to prevent any State government in Australia from doing something in the last 5 or 10 years about regulating the price of land? Whatever can be said about interstate trade, there can be no interstate trade in land. We can have, of course, the stupid situation which exists at the moment where it does not matter if locusts are allowed to breed in one State but if they infest another State it becomes a national problem. Why could the States not have done something in the past about retail prices? As I said yesterday in answer to a question from my colleague the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  where the hurt is felt most from increased retail prices is where the majority of the people buy, that is, in the 2 great cities of Sydney and Melbourne. Those are matters about which the States can do something and could have done something. They have the facades of consumer protection legislation, but they have given it neither financial assistance nor teeth. Whenever any problem occurs in this respect they say it is a problem for Canberra. If it is a problem for Canberra, for heaven's sake let the people give us the powers that are necessary to grapple with it. 
We have taken systematic approaches to the economy since 2 December. I have said over and over again and I am going to repeat that in my view the budget ought not to be regarded as the central economic event of the Australian year. The budget is a parliamentary performance. It simply sanctions what money can be spent and authorises from where to get it. 
It sets the pattern partly. It can correct distortions, but it can move only slowly. Three-quarters of what takes place in the economy takes place outside the framework of the Budget. What we have to have in Australia, because of the magnitude of the capital investment involved, are priorities and the only regulator in the finish of what the priorities should be is government in the name of the people as a whole and not the predatory instincts of those who wield economic power. That is why the next 10 years are not going to be the same as the last 10 years. They would not have been the same if honourable members opposite had been in office. They would have had to grapple with these problems. The reason why honourable members opposite are no longer in office is largely that they did not grapple with them when they were emerging. I say to any honourable member opposite who talks, after the 10 months in office of the present Government, about the sorts of things he would have done in office that they are the sorts of things he could have done without any resistance whatever. Honourable members opposite did not even have the ally in another place that they have now. In my view a mockery will be made of democracy in Australia if it is not acknowledged that the place in which governments are made and unmade is the House of Representatives. Government is not a series of gallup polls taken every 3 weeks about some particular action; government is responsibility and responsibility requires time to work itself out. 
I ask that questions without notice be placed on the notice paper. 
by leave - I have recently returned from Nairobi where I attended the twenty-eighth annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, as the Governor of those institutions for Australia. Of the 126 countries represented at Nairobi, over 100 were developing countries. They had a particular interest, of course, in the discussions on the work of the World Bank group. 
The  President  of the World Bank,  Mr McNamara,  was able to report that the financial institutions for which he is responsible had achieved the goal which he had set in 1968 of doubling the Bank group's operations in the course of the ensuing 5 years. In the 5 years to March 1968 financial commitments totalled $US5.8 billion. In the 5 years to March 1973, financial commitments totalled $US13.4 billion. In real terms, the increase was 100 per cent.  Mr McNamara  has recently been reappointed  President  of the Bank for a further 5 years and over this period he plans to expand the group's financial commitments by another 40 per cent in real terms. This would bring new commitments over the 1974- 78 period to $US22 billion a truly prodigious figure. Whether or not such a figure will be achieved remains to be seen. The number of donor countries in the Bank group is few and the support of some of the larger donors is uncertain. The World Bank, however, is clearly destined to continue to dominate the international scene in terms of financial flows from multilateral institutions to developing countries. 
What the World Bank will be paying particular attention to over the period ahead, however, is not so much the quantity of its disbursements, as the quality. There is now a belated recognition that one cannot measure progress solely by the rate of growth of gross national product. It has been estimated that 40 per cent of the population of the developing countries of the world is living in absolute poverty. It is important that the benefits of financial flows to developing countries should reach that lower 40 per cent of the income earning population. Henceforth the Bank will be identifying the concentrations of poverty in developing countries and directing investments in such a way as to bring some direct relief to the poorest people. In particular, there will be more emphasis on improving the productivity of small scale farmers. All this is to the good. 
However, there are critical problems ahead for the developing world. Three of these problems were highlighted in Nairobi. They are: 
The growing burden of external debt 
The impediments to the development of export earnings 
The inadequacy of development assistance. 
It was a matter of some satisfaction to me that I was able in Nairobi to point to Australia's efforts to be helpful in these matters. I was able to say, for instance, that virtually the whole of Australia's official aid has been given on a grant basis and that we are not therefore adding to the debt burden of the developing countries. 
I was able to remind other governors of the steps we were taking to facilitate imports from developing countries. I referred to improvements made to the preferential scheme involving periodic cuts in duties on imports from developing countries. I also pointed out that these cuts were superimposed on the recent 25 per cent cut in general tariff rates on imports from all countries. Finally, on the matter of official aid, I was in a position to say that, notwithstanding what was happening in some other donor countries, there was no slackening in Australia's official aid effort and we remained in the top three or four in the world aid tables. 
That Australia has a favourable record in understanding the problems of developing countries and taking action to assist them must be a matter for satisfaction to the whole House. 
I recognise that the Government which preceded us laid a good foundation for Australia's aid efforts. The present Government has built upon that basis and moved further along the road. Whatever is done to assist developing countries, however, the fact remains that die vital contribution has to be made by the developing countries themselves. In this respect, if there is one firm impression I could bring back from Nairobi, it is that the people of Africa have all the qualities necessary to make a success of their future development. They deserve support. 
I turn now to what was the major subject of discussion at Nairobi - the issue of international monetary reform. Honourable members will recall that I made a statement to the House on this subject on 12 April 1973. At that time I gave honourable members some of the background to the establishment of the Committee of Twenty, of which Australia is a member, and I outlined some of the main issues as they then stood. At the subsequent meeting of the Committee of Twenty held in Washington on 30-31 July, the general atmosphere was favourable and some progress was made. 
In contrast, however, the most recent Committee of Twenty meeting held in Nairobi on 23 September did not advance matters a great deal further. The Committee of Twenty was able to refer to Governors a 'First Outline of Reform*. After this speech I propose to table the full text of it. However that outline is clearly not a complete blue-print for a reformed monetary system. There are many major issues yet to be resolved. Of course it would be wrong to be too disappointed at this apparent lack of progress in the September discussions on reform. For one thing, I have never been over-impressed with the notion that some re-writing of the rules of the International Monetary Fund would suddenly solve all our international financial problems. Assuming that the rules are good rules, the question still remains whether countries when they are under pressure will abide by the rules. Recent history is not too comforting on that point. The essential thing, as I see it, is to establish the fact that observance of certain codes of behaviour in the international financial field are in the interests of all. Cooperation, not coercion, should be the basis of the monetary system of the future. If the will is not there, the rules will not help a great deal. 
Another thing to bear in mind is that financial crises, dramatic as they are, and important as they are, are not the whole story.  Dr Witteveen,  for instance, the new Managing Director, was able to record a strong economic recovery in the main industrial countries of the world after a 2-year period of economic slowdown. Notwithstanding recurrent financial crises, world production and world trade have been growing strongly over the past 12 or 18 months. The output of industrial countries was more than 7 per cent higher in real terms in the first half of 1973 than in the second half of 1972, and world trade was no less than 12 per cent higher in real terms in the first half of 1973 than it had been a year earlier. Developing countries have benefited from this increase in world economic activity, along with developed countries. 
Nevertheless, international financial problems are important in their own right and have implications for other areas of economic policy. For instance, the continued growth of international liquidity has had consequences for domestic liquidity in member countries and for the battle against inflation - an issue which concerns all of us. It is desirable therefore that we should press ahead with the program of monetary reform as fast as possible. It is for this reason that the Committee of Twenty, in referring the First Outline of Monetary Reform to Governors, placed a time limit of 31 July 1974 for the settlement of remaining issues on monetary reform. Whether such a time limit will prove to be realistic only time will tell. What are these outstanding issues? The basic issue is how to achieve a greater degree of equilibrium in the balance of payments between industrial countries. If there is one single reason why the monetary system has failed it is because individual countries, confronted with persistent surpluses or deficits, have not taken early and sufficient action to correct those surpluses and deficits. This is a simple point, and yet it is fundamental, and quite critical, to the reform discussion. 
Australia has stressed the importance of individual action to correct balance of payments disequilibria. It has been able to do so in the knowledge that the present Government's policy is impeccable in this respect. The exchange rate actions and the tariff actions which this Government has taken have been noted and commended throughout the world. However, the United States and the Europeans tend to look to new rules to bring about this quicker adjustment. The monetary reform discussions to date have, to some extent, been a debate between the United States on the one hand and Europe on the other as to what rules would best achieve this result. The United States, for its part, places emphasis on what it calls 'objective indicators'. 
The United States believes that the present system is one-sided in that there will always be pressure on deficit countries to devalue because they run out of reserves. As they see it there is no equivalent pressure on surplus countries to revalue. The United States system of objective indicators would essentially involve establishing a normal range within which each country's reserve figures would be permitted to move. If reserves rose above or fell below those limits, the country concerned would be required to take action to restore reserves to a figure within the permitted range. The Europeans, for their part, would place more emphasis in monetary reform on restoring the principle of convertibility or, as it is sometimes called, asset settlement. They see the monetary crises of recent years as having their origins in the failure of a large persistent deficit country - the United States - to take action to correct that deficit. The United States has been able to continue financing this deficit because other countries - either willingly or because they could not acquire a more preferred asset - have held more and more United States dollars in their reserves. Unlike most other deficit countries, the United States has not run out of reserves. 
The Europeans would put an end to this by reducing the role of reserve currencies in the monetary system. They would replace reserve currencies with special drawing rights as the major asset of the future. They would impose upon the United States an obligation to convert other countries' holdings of dollars into special drawing rights whenever the United States ran into deficit. It has been agreed that objective indicators should have a role to play in the future system. But it has also been agreed that considerations other than reserve movements would need to be taken into account in determining whether or not a country should take action to correct balance of payments surpluses or deficits. What all this amounts to is that a good deal of the automaticity has been taken out of the original United States proposals for objective indicators. Australia welcomes that development, which has been in accordance with our own view of the matter throughout. What has not been agreed is whether pressures should be put upon countries if they do not take balance of payments action which reserve indicators suggest they should have taken. There has been less of a convergence of views on the issue of assets settlement. It has been agreed in principle that the role of reserve currencies should be reduced and that the SDR, as appropriately modified, should become the primary reserve asset of the future. It has been agreed in principle that countries maintaining par values should settle in reserve assets those official balances of their currencies which other countries present to them. But it has not been agreed whether this process should be mandatory so far as the countries holding the balances are concerned or whether it should be voluntary. Australia, for its part, has indicated its willingness to consider participation in any agreed system but has expressed a strong preference for the principle of voluntarism. In other words, if Australia earns United States dollars it should be up to Australia to decide whether it wishes to convert those dollars into SDR or whether it wishes to continue to hold the dollars. We have taken the same attitude in respect of both existing holdings of reserve currencies and new receipts of reserve currencies. This is all consistent with our overriding view that we wish to see a maximum of flexibility and co-operation in the system and a minimum of compulsion and coercion. 
A second basic issue of major importance is the volume and quality of the SDR. If the SDR is to be the primary reserve asset of the future then it must be a strong and not a weak asset. This means that it must not be in over-supply. It must be as attractive as, if not more attractive than, any alternative reserve asset in terms of its ability to maintain its value and in terms of the interest rate it yields. Countries tend to take positions on this issue depending on what role they see themselves playing in the period ahead. If they see themselves as prospective debtors they tend to favour a 'soft' SDR. If they see themselves as prospective creditors they tend to favour a 'hard' SDR. This matter is still under discussion. But it is my firm view that if the SDR is not fully accepted and firmly held, the reformed monetary system will fail. 
I have been speaking in terms of differences of view on basic issues between some of the major industrial countries or groups of industrial countries. There is one particular issue which has been raised by the developing countries. They believe that monetary reform should operate to increase the flow of resources in their direction. To this end they have suggested there should be a direct link between the issue of SDR and aid to developing countries. The problem some developed countries and, I might add, some developing countries also see in this proposal is that the SDR has to be accepted by the world as a whole as a reserve asset of the first quality. There are legitimate fears that such a link may introduce other than monetary considerations into the question of the volume of issue of SDR and the valuation and rate of interest of SDR. Australia has an open mind on this matter. We are anxious that the operational aspects of the link should be examined thoroughly, along with monetary reform proper, in order to ascertain whether some form of link can be devised which can safely be accepted from the point of view of monetary reform. It has occurred to us that it may be better to establish the SDR as the centre of the monetary system, and when the SDR is working effectively, to consider then whether or not there should be a link. In the end this may well be the most productive approach for all concerned. 
Monetary reform is a complex matter and has many aspects. I have touched on only a few of the main issues here. However, should honourable members wish to pursue these issues further I present to them the first outline of reform which has been referred to governors of the International Monetary Fund by the Committee of Twenty and which contains a more complete account of the state of discussion at this point of time. I also present to the House a revised version of the glossary of terms which I previously provided to honourable members on the occasion of an earlier statement to the House on these matters. I present the following paper: 
Twenty-eighth Annual Meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund Ministerial Statement, 23 October 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Stewart)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost to income tax revenue of the age allowance provisions in respect of the 1971-72 income year, the latest year for which suitable statistics are available, was approximately $13.0m. This amount, however, does not include the cost in respect of those aged taxpayers who had no occasion to lodge income tax returns for that year. 
I am afraid that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is falling for the same selective use of facts as does the Leader of the Opposition. The recent loan was the second highest ever recorded for that particular time. It was not as high as the loan in October last year. On the other hand, the loan raised in July this year was the biggest ever in Australia. The interesting thing about the loan - I suggested to the former Prime Minister that he should wait until the loan was over before he asked a question - was that the major part of it was taken out at the long end, not the short end. In my view that indicates satisfaction with the rates. I would say hopefully that the rates have peaked. 
I issued a statement yesterday disclosing full details of the loan. The Leader of the Opposition wants to deal with one loan at a time, but I ask him to add what was subscribed in the May loan, the July loan and the recent loan and compare the total with what was subscribed in any other 4 to 5 months period. I find astonishing the questions that are asked by the Leader of the Opposition, a former Treasurer. I regard this loan as eminently successful in the circumstances. Nearly half of the $260m-odd was taken at the long end, not long after we had filled the highest loan on record in July. Another interesting feature was that, taking small savers, what are called special bonds were the most successful on record. It is a pity that those sorts of things are not advertised in the Press more than they are. I regard the loan as successful. The sort of comparisons that the Leader of the Opposition is asking me to make are futile. 
My attention has been drawn to the advertisement circulating in the paper of the Australian Medical Publishing Co. Ltd. 
Yes, a constant reader. The advertisement is obviously directed towards the practice described as Pitt Street or Collins Street farming. As a good Victorian, I prefer the epithet 'Pitt Street' to 'Collins Street'. I would say that up to the date of the Budget, 21 August 1973, a person engaged in a business of primary production was entitled to various tax deductions for capital expenditure incurred in the year of income in improving land used for primary production. This afternoon I will be introducing a Bill on income tax that will cover a number of heads, includ ing this particular case. I would say that as a result of the announcement made on 21 August the statement appearing in the journal is incorrect. I think there is an obligation on those who accept advertisements to pay some attention to the accuracy of the contents. It is incorrect now to say that a person who invests a minimum amount of $600 per annum for 12 years will be entitled to a total tax deduction on the amount contributed each year. Furthermore, if any part of the annual contribution is used to purchase land no part of the amount so applied will be deductible on any basis. The advertisement is unscrupulous and incorrect. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will give effect to taxation proposals announced in the Budget Speech an,d to several other such proposals. The Bill will withdraw some taxation concessions that have been allowed to primary producers, manufacturers and mining companies and their shareholders. These proposals result from a careful review by the Government, aided by the Coombs Report, of a number of revenue concessions which can fairly be categorised as disguised expenditures and which result in additions to the burdens on other taxpayers. Since the proposals were announced the Government has received, and carefully considered, representations on most of them. Mainly for the reasons stated in the Budget Speech it has, subject to one or two modifications, decided to hold to them. They are all in the interests of rational tax reform and of the ordinary taxpayer. 
As to mining, the Bill will withdraw for 1973-74 and future years the exemption for gold mining income and the partial exemption 20 per cent of certain other mining profits. Income from the sale of mining rights, other than any derived under preBudget contracts, is no longer to be exempt. Dividends paid out of the kinds of profits I have mentioned, if declared after Budget day, are also to become taxable as are dividends paid out of income from profits from the sale of oil or natural gas or their products. The Budget Speech indicated also that we have decided to end a number of concessions subsidising capital expenditures or encouraging investment which would otherwise be uneconomic. These include the investment allowances which provide a special income tax deduction of 20 per cent of capital expenditure on specified new manufacturing and primary production plant. The special deduction is not to be available in respect of expenditure after Budget Day unless it is incurred under a pre-existing contract and, in the case of manufacturing plant, not later than 30 June 1975. 
Other proposed measures in this class will terminate provisions which allow some capital expenditures by primary producers to be wholly deductible in the year in which they are incurred and others to be subject to accelerated depreciation over 5 years. It is proposed that the concessions will not apply to capital expenditures incurred after Budget day unless under a contract entered into before then. In future, deductions will be allowed as ordinary depreciation on plant and structures and over 10 years for other items. I stress that these measures affect only capital expenditures. They do not change the basis of deduction of running expenses of established farming or grazing businesses. It is also proposed to eliminate an anomaly in the basis of valuation of trading stock manufactured from grapes which, of course, includes wine and brandy. This stock has in the past been valued by some manufacturers of these commodities on a remarkably generous basis differing considerably from what is required of other manufacturers. The change to valuation in accordance with the general law is to be phased in over a period of 5 years beginning with the end of 1973-74 valuations. I am sure that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  will be slightly mollified by that. This is a modification of the 3-year phasing in period mentioned in the Budget Speech and has been made in consequence of representations received from the industry. I had discussions with representatives of the industry as late as Tuesday of this week and indicated that they should have further discussions about some of the technicalities that are involved. I also indicated that if they are able to demonstrate certain things it will be possible, since the tax year concerned has a long way to run, if necessary to make adjustments later should their case be established. Having considered these representations with the utmost care, we have decided that, with the modification mentioned, it is right to hold to the principle involved. The Bill also deals with the Budget proposals on private rates and land tax and gifts to war memorial funds. As to the first matter, it is proposed that, for income year 1973-74 and subsequent years, an overall ceiling of $300 be placed on the deduction allowable and that it be limited to the Taxpayer's home. As to the second matter, it is proposed to remove deductions for gifts to the funds, except where the fund was established before Budget day. Gifts to war memorial funds will not in any event be allowable if made after 30 June 1974. 
I turn now to the amendments affecting life assurance companies. A life assurance company is allowed a deduction from its assessable income of a proportion of what are called 'calculated liabilities'. In effect, the deduction frees from tax a basic 3 per cent return on policy holders' funds, and this ultimately goes to policy holders in a non-taxable form. If a company's holdings of public securities rise above, or fall below, the 30-20 investment ratio, the deduction is varied upwards or downwards. One amendment will reduce the deduction based on calculated liabilities by one-third, so that the basic deduction will become 2 per cent. Corresponding reductions will apply if the deduction allowable is higher or lower than the basic allowance. The Bill also provides for a reduction in the amount of dividend income of a life assurance company on which a rebate of tax is allowed. Part of the deduction based on calculated liabilities is attributable to the value of shares which produce rebatable dividends included in a company's assessable income. Similarly, part of the deduction allowed for general management expenses is attributable to the amount of rebatable dividends so included. However, following interpretations by the courts, these deductions, while they reduce taxable income, cannot reduce rebatable dividends. This quite unjustifiably inflates the amount of the rebate. 
Broadly stated, the Bill provides for a part of each deduction to be set off against dividends. These parts are the amounts by which the deductions are increased through the inclusion of dividends in assessable income and the inclusion of the value of shares on which dividends are paid in the value of assets producing assessable income. A further proposal announced in the Budget Speech relates to the taxation of casual profits from the sale of property within the year following its acquisition. The Bill contains provisions to treat such profits on property purchased after 21 August 1973 as assessable income. These short-term profits are essentially in the nature of income and ought to be subject to tax as such. The provisions give expression to this concept. An exemption is proposed to meet the case where a person finds it necessary to sell a home quickly because of a change in place of business or employment. An associated provision will limit the application of measures enacted last year which freed individuals from any liability to tax on profits on stock exchange transactions if the shares had been held for 18 months or more. This will in future apply only to shares acquired no later than 21 August 1973. 
This Bill and the Income Tax Bill 1973 shortly to be introduced will give effect to the taxation side of the package of pension and taxation measures associated with the phased abolition of the means test for people aged 65 years or more. Partial effect has been given to the pension side of the new arrangements, and there will be further pension increases enacted in the autumn. The Bill will withdraw the tax exemption for social service and repatriation pensions, but not war pensions, paid to men aged 65 years or more and women aged 60 or more. Pensions paid to women less than 60 years of age by reason of their being wives of men aged 65 years or more will also become taxable. I think it is generally acknowledged that free-of-means-test pensions must be exposed to tax. Otherwise, aged people in the higher income groups would be put in a privileged position as compared with other aged people who have little income and with young people bringing up families. Meanstested age pensions can be paid to people with substantial amounts of other income, for example, superannuitants. For similar reasons to those I have mentioned, and to avoid larger transitional problems later, taxation must extend to age pensions that remain meanstested. 
Details of the categories of taxable and exempt pensions are given in the explanatory memorandum circulated in my name. Some elements of taxable pensions, such as allowances for the payment of rent or for the support of children, will remain exempt and, in the latter case, concessional deductions will also be allowed in assessments for the maintenance of children. Although some pensions are to become assessable income, another part of the package - the special rebate of tax for aged persons proposed by the Income Tax Bill 1973 - will have the effect that appreciably more than 80 per cent of aged pensioners will not have to pay any tax or lodge tax returns. The rebate allowance will be $156 for persons with taxable incomes of up to $3,224, reducing thereafter by 25c for each dollar by which taxable income exceeds $3,224. Aged people whose taxable income - that is, after all allowable deductions - does not exceed $1,921 will not have to pay tax. Those whose taxable incomes are between $1,921 and $3,847 will pay less than younger people with the same taxable income. 
The existing age allowance is being abolished. It was introduced in 1951-52 for the specific purpose of removing an anomaly which existed then. Aged persons in receipt of the full pension and the maximum permissible income allowed by the means test at that time paid no tax, while those with larger amounts of other income suffered a $1 loss of pension for each extra $1 of other income under the non-tapered means test then applying, and also paid tax on the extra income to prevent the latter group from becoming absolutely worse off than the full pensioner with maximum permissible income, it was necessay for all aged persons to be exempted from income tax if their total income did not exceed the sum of the full pension and the maximum permissible income. Above that point it was necessary for tax to be shaded in to normal tax rates and, while aged persons with incomes within this shadingin range paid less than tax at normal rates, the shading-in provisions were designed purely for the purpose of easing the transition from complete exemption to normal tax rates, and not for the purpose of placing aged persons in a more favourable tax position than people below pensionable age on the same or lower incomes. With the introduction of the tapered means test in 1969, the situation which the age allowance was designed to alleviate ceased to exist, though this does not seem to have been acknowledged until the 1971-72 Budget when, apparently in recognition of the stark anomalies it generated, the allowance was for the first time left unchanged at a time when pensions were being increased. The proposed phasing out of the means test would make the age allowance even more anomalous, and the benefits which it now provides to some aged persons with quite large incomes even more inequitable by comparison with the position of young married couples setting up home and raising families on the same or smaller incomes. 
As I have said, the package of measures I have referred to will leave more than 80 per cent of aged pensioners free of tax. Most of the minority with higher incomes who will pay tax will still pay less than younger people with the same incomes. No aged person will pay more tax than a younger person having the same income. The great majority will pay no tax or less tax. Added to this, pensions will be paid at higher rates and the means test will be phased out. Altogether, what the Government proposes must, when judged fairly, be acknowledged as more equitable and generous than the largely ad hoc and unco-ordinated measures of the past, 
A further Budget measure in the Bill will require a company to pay - not earlier than 3 1 December 1973  -  as an instalment of the tax to be assessed on its &lt;1 972-73 income an amount equal generally to one-quarter of its 1971-72 tax or, at the company's option, of its estimated 1972-73 tax. This is the first step towards a system of quarterly payments of company tax to be phased in over 3 years. An important purpose of the scheme is to elleviate problems of economic management associated with the high level of liquidity in the Banking system in the first half of the financial year and the run down, largely due to payment of company tax, in the last quarter of the financial year. Quarterly payments by companies will not mean that they will pay tax on a pay as you earn basis. Company tax for a financial year will still be calculated on taxable income of the preceding year. The quarterly payments will, however, mean that companies will make payments progressively throughout the later year. To some extent, therefore, the system will reduce the existing inequity between companies and individuals who are on the PAYE basis. As a sanction against over-retention of profits taxed at a rate lower than personal progressive rates, a private company that does not distribute a sufficient proportion of its aftertax income is liable to pay tax at the rate of 50 per cent on the amount by which dividends paid fall short of a sufficient distribution. In determining whether a sufficient distribution is made, the company may deduct a retention allowance of 50 per cent of the first $10,000 of after-tax income other than property income 45 per cent of the next $10,000 and 40 per cent of the balance. It may also deduct 10 per cent of after-tax property income other than dividends from other private companies. It is proposed to increase the retention allowance on income other than property income to a flat rate of 50 per cent. No change is proposed for property income. 
One measure that does not arise from Budget decisions is designed to ensure that companies that are essentially public in character, but fall in some insignificant way to qualify as public companies under specific tests in the law, will not be taxed as private companies by reason of a restriction on the circumstances in which the Commissioner of Taxation may exercise a relevant discretionary power. This amendment is to apply for the 1972-73 and subsequent income years and was foreshadowed in a statement I made on 28 June 1973 following the decision of the full High Court in the Stocks and Holdings (Constructions) Pty Ltd case. The effect of the Court's ruling was that the Commissioner's discretionary power to treat a company as public for income tax purposes cannot be invoked unless the company would, as a consequence, be relieved from a liability for additional tax on undistributed income. 
The proposed amendment will restore to the discretionary provision the scope it was intended by the legislature to have and will avoid anomalous and inappropriate consequences that would occur if the limitation imposed by the Court's decision were allowed to remain. In forming an opinion whether it would be reasonable to treat a company as public, the Commisioner will be able, as had been his practice until the adverse court decision, to reach his conclusion on the basis of factors relevant to the true character of a company. 
The Bill will also extend the withholding tax provisions of the income tax law to dividends and interest flowing from Australia to Papua New Guinea which have, up to now, been taxed on an assessment basis. The rtae of withholding tax on interest will be 10 per cent. This is the withholding rate uniformly applied to interest paid to non-residents. The rate of dividends paid to residents of Papua New Guinea will be 15 per cent, the same rate as is imposed by Papua New Guinea on dividends flowing to Australia. The withholding tax will be payable on dividends and interest paid to residents of Papua New Guinea, including companies, after today. This income will no longer be included in assessable income and the rebate on inter-company dividends will no longer be available to Papua New Guinea companies. Papua New Guinea has withdrawn a corresponding rebate from Australian companies. 
Provisions in the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) 1973, which was introduced recently, are designed to frustrate tax avoidance through the payment of dividends by Australian private companies to so-called 
Repository' companies owned by Australians but set up in Papua New Guinea. Further investigations have shown that 'Repository' companies in other countries, and especially in tax havens, would be used for the purpose of avoiding Australian tax if the new rules were applied only to Papua New Guinea. It is proposed, therefore, to extend the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) to dividends paid to private companies in any country. 
Another non-budgetary measure contained in the Bill relates to the income tax rebate on expenditure to develop export markets. In accordance with my announcement of 10 September 1973, it is proposed that the rebate no longer be available for expenditure incurred after that date in the development of export markets for meat, unless incurred in pursuance of a pre-existing contract. With the present buoyant demand for meat there is, of course, no reason why the Australian taxpayer should continue to subsidise its export. 
The last proposal concerns the application of the pay as you earn system to weekly payments of workers compensation made to an employee who is away from work because of an injury or accident. Those payments form part of his income and are subject to tax but, unlike ordinary payments of salary or wages, are not subject to deduction of tax instalments unless the insurer paying the compensation agrees to an employee's request to make the deductions. This has produced situations in the past where employees have been faced with large income tax bills after lengthy periods on compensation. The situation has given rise to a number of cases of hardship and both employee and employer bodies have asked that tax instalments be made deductible from workers compensation payments in the same way as they are from salary and wages. The Bill contains provisions to give effect to these requests. Weekly payments of workers compensation made after the Bill becomes law will be treated in the same way as salary and wages for the purposes of tax instalment deductions. Group certificates showing the amounts deducted would then be issued to the employees concerned for lodgment with their income tax returns along with the group certificates received from employers. The Bill will give effect to a considerable number of proposals. Its provisions are explained in detail in a memorandum being circulated to honourable members and I do not need to say more about the provisions at this stage. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to declare the rates of income tax for the 1973-74 financial year. The rates for individual taxpayers are the same as those that applied for the previous , year. However, as I explained at some length in my speech on the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) 1973 just delivered, some changes are proposed in the arrangements for the relief from taxation of aged persons with low or modest incomes. Briefly put, these arrangements are firstly that the age allowance is not to be re-enacted and secondly that a rebate of tax is to be allowed where a taxpayer's taxable income is $3,847 or less. The rebate is to be $156 less 25c for each $1 by which the person's taxable income is greater than $3,224. The rates of tax for companies proposed in the Bill will apply to income derived in the 1972-73 income year. The general rate of tax payable by public companies - 47.5 per cent - remains unchanged as do the rates payable by co-operative companies, non-profit companies and friendly society dispensaries. There are, however, changes in the rates of tax payable on the income of private companies, on the mutual income of life assurance companies and on dividend income of non-resident companies. 
As I said in the Budget Speech there is no reason why private companies and public companies should not pay tax at corresponding rates. Notions of capacity to pay based on level of income have a place in the personal income tax system, but not the company tax system. Private companies may be owned by taxpayers on very high incomes who can obtain a number of tax benefits by using the company form of operation. It is proposed, over a period of 2 years, to bring the private and public company rates into line. As a first step, private companies are to be taxed on income of the 1972-73 income year at the single rate of 45 per cent. Previously the rates were 37.5 per cent on the first $10,000 of taxable income and 42.5 per cent on the balance. It is notorious that this encouraged tax avoidance by company splitting. 
It is proposed also to do away with the reduced rates of tax on the mutual income of life assurance companies, and on the first $10,000 of dividend income of non-resident public companies. Whatever justification there once may have been for these special rates has long since ceased to exist and it is proposed to tax these classes of income at the general public company rate of 47.5 per cent. In line with the proposed increase in the rates of tax payable by mutual life assurance companies the rate of tax payable on the investment income of 1973-74 of superannuation funds which do not invest sufficiently in public securities will be 47.5 per cent. In other respects the provisions of the Bill have the same effect as the corresponding provisions of the Income Tax Act 1972. Further explanations are contained in the explanatory memorandum that I have had circulated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Holten)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Income Tax (Non-Resident Dividends and Interest) Act 1967, which declares the rates at which withholding tax is payable on dividends and interest paid from Australia to residents of other countries. 
The Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) 1973 that I have just introduced proposes that the withholding tax provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act be extended to dividends and interest paid from Australia to residents of Papua New Guinea. I have explained that the rate on dividends is to be 15 per cent and on interest 10 per cent. In the absence of the amendment proposed by this Bill the rate on dividends would be 30 per cent, the rate generally applicable to countries with which we do not have a double taxation agreement. This Bill -will charge withholding tax on dividends at the same rate as Papua New Guinea, that is, 15 per cent. 
Further explanations on the clauses of the Bill are given in a memorandum which will be circulated for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Holten)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Various proposals of this kind have been discussed in international forums over a number of years. 
Recently the developing countries agreed to give their joint support to a particular scheme involving a change in method of distributing newlycreated special drawing rights (SDR) among participating countries so as to increase the share going to developing countries. This proposal has had a mixed reception among developed countries: a few have strongly opposed it, a few have leant it their support, while others have indicated a willingness to consider it fully when the major issues of monetary reform have been settled. 
The Government agrees strongly with the objective of increasing the total flow of development assistance from developed to developing countries. At this stage it is difficult to judge whether increasing the share of SDR going to developing countries would be a desirable way of attempting to meet that objective. Some authorities have questioned whether using the SDR as a major channel for development assistance would be compatible with the SDR becoming a principal reserve asset in a reformed international monetary system. It is important to Australia that this status should not be in doubt. 
Discussions on these matters are continuing in the Committee of the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund on Reform of the International Monetary System. The Government is reserving its position until these discussions are further advanced and the issues clarified. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950, I present the twenty-fifth annual report of the trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund for the year ended 31 December 1972, together with the report of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the Fund as required by section 35 of the Act. 
On 18 October 1973 the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  asked me a question without notice concerning the effect of revaluation and the 25 per cent cut in tariffs on import prices and on the general level of importing. In the course of my reply I stated that I would consider these questions further and provide a detailed answer. 
The latest month for which the Reserve Bank import price index, to which the right honourable member referred, has been pub lished is May 1973. Between December 1972 and May 1973 the Bank's import price index fell by 6.7 index points, or 5.8 per cent. This compares with an increase of 2.8 per cent during the corresponding months of 1971-72. A more comprehensive measure of import prices is provided by the implicit price index for merchandise imports derivable from the national accounts published by the Statistician; this shows that, on average, import prices declined by 5 per cent in the first half of 1973. The evidence therefore indicates that there has been a significant fall in the general level of import prices in terms of Australian currency since the December revaluation. This of course has occurred at a time when the general level of overseas prices has been rising strongly. 
The right honourable member referred to imports in the month of September. Month to month movements in economic series, such as import statistics, can be affected by seasonal movements and other special factors. A better guide to the underlying recent trend in imports can be gained from the figures for the recent September quarter. During the September quarter recorded imports totalled $l,261m compared with $l,086m in the June quarter and $939m in the September quarter last year. These figures indicate a very strong upward trend in imports and are in line with expectations at the time the Budget was framed. I should hardly need to add that, because of the lags involved, one would not in any case have expected to see, within the September quarter, much if any result, in terms of an increased in flow of imports, from the tariff cut announced in mid-July. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From 5 December 1972 to 31 July 1973, 233 cases came to the notice of the Government in the administration of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act. 
Final orders prohibiting the take-over proposals were made in 9 cases. They were the proposed takeovers of: 
M. B. John &amp; Hattersley Limited by PeglerHattersley Limited. 
Baillieu Bowring Holdings Pty Ltd by C. T. Bowring International (Australia) Pty Limited. 
Perpetual Finance Corporation Limited by G.U.S. (Australia) Pty Limited and Investment and Merchant Finance Corporation Limited. 
Sturts Meadows Prospecting Syndicate N.L. by Abadon Holdings N.L. 
Minerals Pty Limited by Steetley Australasia Pty Limited. 
The Brickhouse Company Pty Limited by Westlyn Investments Limited. 
Buchanan Borehole Collieries Pty Limited by Mitsui &amp; Co. (Australia) Limited. 
Minerals Mining and Metallurgy Limited by Hockmetals Corporation. 
Industrial Sales and Service (Q'land) Limited by Industrial Equity Limited and its associates. 
In the administration of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act, the first test applied in the consideration of a proposal coming within the ambit of the Act is whether action can be taken under the Act to prevent the take-over from proceeding. If such action cannot be taken, the question of examining the merits of the proposal does not arise. 
The answers to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were no semi-government public loans on the market when the terms of the Australian Government's cash and conversion loan were announced on 4 October. This is in accord with the established practice of the Loan Council in ensuring that no public loan of a semi-governmental or local authority is open for subscription during a period seven days before the next Australian Government loan is proposed. (2), (3) and (4) See answer to part (1) above. 
I am not aware of any serious concern about the capacity of semi-government and local authorities to fill their approved borrowing program in 1973-74. 
See answer to part (5) above. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) These would be matters for consideration by the Loan Council. 
I think that the leading spokesman for economic affairs in the Opposition in this House ought to be aware that this is a matter of policy. I am not in the luxurious position of other people who can say what they like at any time they like. 
I almost hesitate to say anything about building societies. However, I should like to quote some figures. I am not one who quotes a figure for a month and multiplies it by twelve, nor do I believe that what can be called a trend can always be evaluated on the basis of a month. However, I quote what is purely factual information. Housing loan approvals by permanent building societies declined slightly in September - I repeat, slightly - after rising in July and August from the low June figures. At $82m, housing loan approvals by permanent building societies in September were well below the very high September 1972 level of $106m but well above the September 1971 level of $57m. The number of loans approved in September was 5,048, 29 per cent less than in September 1972 but 9 per cent greater .than in September 1971. My information goes on to show quarterly figures. 
One has to be concerned about the availability of physical resources as well as the availability of financial resources. One of the difficulties in the building industry was that more approvals were being given than there was capacity to perform. At least there has been some settling down. If there has to be rationing of houses, we would prefer that it should be in the light of the physical availability of resources rather than to its being financial rationing. If too many houses were being commenced at one stage it is likely, if the matter sifts down sensibly, that at some stage there will be a fall in commencements. I suggest that that is what is happening at the moment. I find it rather curious that in one breath many people complain about inflation and excess demand and in the next breath they talk about an impending recession. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The interest rate charged by the Reserve Bank on advances by its Rural Credits Department to the Australian Wheat Board in relation to the 1972-73 harvest was 5 per cent per annum until 20 September 1973, when the rate was increased to 7 per cent per annum. 
The interest rate to be charged to the Wheat Board in respect of the 1973-74 harvest will be the rate ruling from time to time on Rural Credits Department advances, which are secured by Government guarantee. At present, the interest rate is 7 per cent per annum 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The names of the companies referred to in my answer to Question No. 707 (Hansard, 25 September 1973) cannot be made available because my information did not include the names of the companies concerned. The figures I gave were supplied to me by the Commissioner of Taxation from the income tax statistics of 'companies for the 1970-71 income year. As the right honourable member will appreciate, the secrecy provisions of the income tax law operate, with certain exceptions which are not relevant to the right honourable member's question, to prevent the Commissioner of Taxation from divulging information concerning the affairs of any person (including a company) disclosed or obtained under the provisions of that legislation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The elements underlying Australia's inflationary experience are complex. Unquestionably, in the period to which the Minister for Overseas Trade was referring, the boom in international commodity prices reflected itself in steeply rising domestic prices of the commodities affected. The excessive capital inflow from overseas throughout 1971 and 1972 also built up a huge volume of liquidity in the economy, leaving an inflationary legacy for the new Government. The Government has acted decisively to limit imported inflation: through the exchange rate revaluation in December 1972 and again in September 1973, through the tariff cut in July 1973 and through controls on overseas borrowings. Despite those efforts booming export prices have continued to push up domestic prices. 
To sort out from all of this the precise percentage which can be ascribed to imported inflation is an exercise the outcome of which is dependent, among other things, on assumptions about what would have happened to domestic prices, including the domestic prices of imports, in the absence of abnormal international influences. Such a situation does not lend itself to the kind of analysis which appears to be implicit in the honourable member's question and I am therefore unable to furnish him with such an analysis. The central point, however, is that this Government has taken the steps available to it to reduce imported inflation. 
 I can assure the honourable gentleman that the statement that the Government has run out of money is not true. Answering this question gives me the opportunity to inform people both inside the House and outside the House who ought to know better than to accept such a suggestion just what the circumstances are. Under parliamentary appropriation procedures no amount of money can be spent for any purpose until the authority of the Parliament has first been given. There are certain gaps in procedures due to time, and the money that is currently being spent for most purposes - what is known as Supply - is what was decided in the Supply measures which were introduced into the House in April and passed, I think, in May of 1973. Those measures gave what is known as Supply from the beginning of the new financial year, that is 1 July, to the end of November. In most years the Supply that is associated with the Budget passes both Houses by the end of November, and usually there is not very much difficulty about bridging between the commencement of the financial year and that time. However, this year, because of the very difficult legislative program in both this House and another place, Supply is later in being granted this year than is usually the case. 
I have some information which shows that during the 20-year period from 19S2 to 1972 there was only one other instance of the Estimates not having been passed early in November, and that was in 1971. On 9 November 1971 the then Government, of which the Leader of the Opposition was the Treasurer and at which time I happened to be shadow treasurer, introduced an additional Supply Bill for $138m which passed this House, I am told, in 9 minutes and passed the Senate in about an equivalent time. Meanwhile we were able normally to go on with the Estimates debate. I intend tomorrow to bring down a Supply Bill for a much less sum than $138m. Honourable members will see what is in it. They will have the opportunity to debate it, I hope, shortly, because any time taken unnecessarily on that which is purely a technical measure limits the time for debate on other matters which I think honourable members want to debate more fully. 
 I am aware of the remarks attributed to  Dr Porter,  they were covered fairly fully in today's 'Australian Financial Review'. As far as I am concerned, they were an unsolicited testimonial to the record of this Government since 2 December and were somewhat of a disparagement of the records of earlier governments. I hope that the text in full will be available both to me and to any other members of the House who might be interested. 
I think that I have been furnished with the answer from behind. The matter is under continuing examination. 
As the honourable member knows, we have made changes in the conditions of taxation for people over 65 years of age. Insofar as any of them are recipients of superannuation above a certain level - as the honourable member said, above $40 a fortnight - it may be necessary that there be changes in the deductions that formerly operated. A booklet is available at post offices on this subject and we have endeavoured to make it accessible to everybody as soon as possible so that people can see .for themselves what the position is. I repeat that at least four out of five existing pensioners will not pay any additional tax as a consequence of the changes, but in some cases additional amounts will be payable. Where weekly or fortnightly deductions are made we think it only wise that increased deduction be made so that instead of the sum being payable in one lump there will at least have been provision to meet it. 
I sometimes despair that one who has been a Treasurer himself should expect any categorical answer to this kind of question. 
I gave the answer that the matter is under continuing review, as I hope would be the position at any time under any government. The measures were taken largely because right measures had not been taken in this country many years before. I think that the question I answered earlier was indicative enough of that situation. Had the former Government acted responsibly when it had the chance, the situation prevailing in this country today would have been different. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1). 
Again I indicate that I get the latest information about the goldfields of Western Australia directly from my good friend and colleague the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. With him recently and in the company of the Prime Minister I received a deputation from Kalgoorlie which included the mayor of the city, the Premier of Western Australia and the head of the Chamber of Mines in that State. I indicated to them then that I did not see my way clear to withdraw the Budget proposals, but that when I received concrete propositions that this measure and other measures were causing detriment to the industry I would be prepared to reconsider the proposal. That is still the position. I intend, as early as the parliamentary session will allow, to visit Kalgoorlie and I know I will be as safe there as I am in most places in Australia. I suggest to the honourable gentleman who asked this question that the gold-mining industry in Western Australia suffers under difficulties that go back a fair amount of time. In some respects while this proposal may be regarded as the last straw, it is by no means the only weight on the camel's back. I am interested in the future of Kalgoorlie rather than in the interests of the dividends of goldmining shareholders. We are preparing to look at this matter, as I think it ought to be, as a Kalgoorlie problem. We are a government that at least is doing something systematic about reducing the drift from provincial and country areas to cities. The honourable gentleman can be assured that the plight of this area will be fully considered in the right way. 
I must say,  Mr Speaker,  that I agree with you that on many occasions answers should not be long. If I were to give a proper answer to the honourable member's question, it would take a long time. I hope to be able to do so in about half an hour's time, when certain urgency proposition is advanced from the other side of the House. 
Perhaps if one had had time to read the speech just delivered by the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  one might have had an opportunity to analyse it. I begin by asking for leave to table one page of an answer to a question which I recently gave to the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti).  It shows the history - - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! Is leave granted? 
It is one page which shows the history of interest rates in Australia. 
 As a member of the Privileges Committee I support the remarks that were made by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury).  I am impelled to speak at this stage by the remarks of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  concerning some other documents. I simply say that in a parliamentary atmosphere allegations are very easy to make; they are often very difficult to refute. Whatever is referred to the Privileges Committee, I hope we will never get to the stage at which every allegation that is made in this House will be thought to be a matter for consideration by the Privileges Committee. Otherwise the Privileges Committee would be meeting very often. One of the interesting things about the Privileges Committee is that it does not have to meet very often. Sometimes we find that when it does meet it considers three or four cases that seem to happen more or less simultaneously, but then it is a long time before there is another case to be considered. 
I suggest that the honourable member for Gippsland consult the transcript of evidence of the Committee. He will find that some of the things to which he referred were asked of the witnesses in the course of that investigation. I must say as a general observation that I find it hard to know what is gained, or what is thought to be gained, by publishing a few days or a few hours in advance something that will ultimately become public information. I agree with one point made by the honourable member for Gippsland, namely, that the danger - in this case I think the matter was comparatively trivial in its impact when the document was finally revealed - is that on other occasions a very few can gain at the expense of the very many. I regard it as an obligation of the Press to protect the rights of the many rather than sometimes just take a scoop that will advantage a few. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
We have introduced Supply Bill (No. 3) 1973-74 in order to obtain further appropriations totalling $35,944,000. These are needed to enable urgent payments to be made pending the passage of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74. In previous years, the Appropriation Bills have usually been dealt with and passed a good deal earlier than this. A recent exception was in 1971, and additional supply was obtained then. I mention also that since Appropriation Bills have to be passed by both Houses - the Senate as well as the House of Representatives - the operation of the Senate Estimates Committees is a factor to be considered. I understand that the Senate Estimates Committees will not finish their deliberations until at least the end of this week. 
Supply Act (No. 1) 1973-74 appropriated a total of $1,556,348,000 for salaries, administrative expenses and other services of departments in the period 1 July 1973 to 30 November 1973. In a number of instances, and for a variety of reasons, these appropriations have proved insufficient. 
Salary increases amounting to some $46m which have had to be paid in the supply period have been funded under section 4 of the Supply Act (No. 1) 1973-74, but there are some substantial salary requirements which cannot be met from that provision, such as salary increases to staffs of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Australian National University and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. These amounted to $5,288,000. Not only have there been substantial increases in rates of pay, but also staff changes resulting from the re-structuring of departments, the establishment of new departments and an increased tempo of activity have put additional pressures on the supply appropriations. 
In other areas, too, the level of expenditure has been higher than could have been reasonably anticipated. For example, the Department of Education requires an additional $1,834,000 to meet payments under the assistance scheme for isolated school children, and for Aboriginal secondary grants and study grants. In those cases, the numbers of applicants coming forward during the period have been greater than was estimated. 
The Department of the Army requires a further $3,733,000 to meet additional gratuity payments and bonuses on re-engagement as well as to compensate for an under-estimate due to a change, as from 1 July, in the method of accounting for recoveries of charges for rations and quarters. For similar reasons an additional $2,243,000 is being sought for the Department of Air. An amount of $2,691,800 is required also to meet a claim from the State of Victoria for advances for servicemen's housing - a claim which normally is made much later in the financial year. 
The remaining items detailed in the Schedule to the Bill are in general required to cover costs of staff increases and underestimates of other requirements pending the availability of the amounts included in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74. I commend the Bill to honourable members. I seek leave for the debate to continue. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated reduction in income tax revenue in the 1973-74 financial year that would result if provisional tax were not imposed is approximately $765m. 
Other than newspaper reports of it I am not aware of the decision by Comalco. I suggest that the honourable gentleman put his question on notice. 
I must again confess to having seen only the report in the Press this morning. I shall have to give the same answer to this question as I gave to the last question. 
I will not answer questions founded on newspaper reports only, when I have not seen the details of the matter referred to in those reports. I shall consider the details properly as I think I should. I will treat the question as being on notice. 
Yes, inflation is a serious problem. I think it is a problem that involves both prices and wages. I believe every Minister is capable of making his own decisions in his own way. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment in 1973-74 of special grants of $10m to Queensland, $ 19.9m to South Australia and $8.65m to Tasmania. These payments are in accordance with the recommendations of the Grants Commission contained in its fortieth report, which has been tabled in the House. The Bill also seeks the usual authority for payment of advances to the 3 States in the early months of 1974t75, pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations for that year and enactment of legislation to provide for the grants to be paid in that year. 
In the last session Parliament passed the Grants Commission Bill 1973 which widened the powers of the Commission to enable it to investigate and recommend upon applications for financial assistance by regional groupings of local authorities. Under this new legislation, which is now operating, the Grants Commission retains its previous responsibilities with respect to applications for special grants by some States. 
The Australian Government makes special grants to financially weaker States to compensate them for such factors as lower capacity to raise revenue from their own resources and higher costs in providing government services of a standard similar to those in the financially stronger States. When special grants were first paid they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance paid to the financially weaker States for this purpose. For many years now, however, the main way in which special compensatory assistance has been provided has been through the higher per capita financial assistance grants paid to the four less populous States. The financial assistance grants are the main general revenue grants to the States. The special grants may, therefore, be regarded as supplementing the financial assistance grants, and as having the special characteristic of being independently as well as expertly assessed by the Grants Commission. 
The method used by the Grants Commission, briefly put, is to calculate grants which will bring the claimant States' budgetary positions up to the average of the two most populous States taken as 'standard' after allowing for differences between the States concerned in their financial practices and their efforts to raise revenue and control expenditure. This involves a detailed comparison of the standard and claimant States' budgetary revenues and expenditures. 
The recommendations of the Grants Commission for payment of special grants consist of 2 parts. One part is based on a preliminary estimate of the claimant State's financial need in the current financial year, and is treated as an advance payment subject to adjustment 2 years later when the Commission has compared in detail the Budget results, and standards of effort and of services provided, in that year for both the claimant State and the States which it takes as standard. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance payment made 2 years earlier and is known as the completion payment. It may result in the final grant in respect of that year being higher or lower than the original advance payment. 
The Commission has recommended that an advance payment of $ 10m be made to Queensland in 1973-74 - the same amount as paid in 1972-73 - and that no adustment be made to the advance grant of $9m paid to the State in 1971-72. For South Australia, the Commission has recommended the payment of special grants totalling $ 19.9m, made up of an advance payment of $15m for 1973-74 and a completion payment of $4.9m in respect of 1971-72. This completion grant brings the total special grant in respect of 1971-72 to $11.9m. The relatively high completion grant reflects the fact that it was only in 1970-71 that South Australia applied for a special grant again after some years' absence from claimancy, and the advance grant recommended for 1971-72 was fairly tentative. 
The Commission has recommended the payment of special grants totalling $8. 65m to Tasmania in 1973-74, made up of an advance payment of $10m for 1973-74 - the same amount as paid in 1972-73 - and a negative completion grant of $1.35m in respect of 1971-72. This completion grant brings the total special grant in respect of 1971-72 to $9.65m. The negative adjustment in respect of Tasmania's 1971-72 grant means that the Commission considers, after detailed examination, that the advance payment of $llm made in that year was an over-estimate of the State's needs for that year. 
The 1973-74 advance grants to each of the 3 States will, of course, be subject to adjustment, if necessary, in 1975-76. The bases of the Commission's recommendations are set out fully in its report. The Commission's recommendations have been adopted by Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should be accepted on this occasion. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
I thank the honourable member for asking that question because it gives me the opportunity to explain what Caucus did and did not do yesterday. I might mention that what was done in Caucus, no matter how powerful that body is, has nothing to do with the fall in the price of gold this morning. The 
Budget Bill in the form in which it is currently before the House does 3 things as far as this matter is concerned. It takes away exemptions that formerly applied as to 100 per cent of gold mining profits, as to 20 per cent of profits from mining other prescribed minerals, and as to dividends declared after Budget day out of profits which have been exempt as gold mining or prescribed mineral profits. What yesterday's Caucus decision does is to withdraw and defer action on eliminating the tax exemption for gold mining profits and the 20 per cent of profits from mining certain other minerals. 
However, what the Caucus decision did not do was withdraw the provisions concerning dividends paid out of those profits. That matter still stands as it is currently before the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Treasury does not publish a Quarterly Comment on Investment Accounts' or, indeed, any document with a title along those lines. The Statistician publishes a document entitled Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure' but there has been no cessation of publication of that document. 
I do not think I need repeat to this House the independent action that has been taken on at least 3 occasions by the present Government in regard to the exchange levels. When one currency rate moves, whether it is the yen or the United States dollar, it does have some impact on our currency. The answer I give about exchange rates is - and I am pleased to be able to repeat it in this House: The Australian exchange rate can stay where it is; it can rise; it can fall; it can float. I have all options still open. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the tenth quinquennial investigation of the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1973. 
I move: 
Omit 'Two thousand, two hundred and fifty-one million, seven hundred and ninety-two thousand dollars', insert '$2,215,848,000'. 
This amendment, and the proposed amendment to clause 4 which has been circulated in my name, are consequential. They are purely technical amendments. The infantile demonstration which has just takenplace on the Opposition side astonished me. This amendment is purely consequential upon the passing recently of the Supply Act (No. 3) 1973-74. I might say that when a similar situation arose when I was the shadow Treasurer and when the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was the Treasurer a similar proposition went through in a matter of seconds. I should have thought that the same courtesy would be extended to me. 
I expect it sometimes from some people. 
I seek leave of the House to move the third reading forthwith. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
Debate interrupted. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
Motion (by  Mr Crean)  proposed: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows, since 1948-49, annual percentage changes in gross domestic product at current and constant prices, in the so-called implicit price deflator and in the consumer price index. Comparable series are not available prior to 1948-49. 
Movements in the gross domestic products at constant prices are commonly used as a measure of economic growth although such a measure is subject to a number of limitations (see, for example, the recent Treasury Economic Paper entitled 'Economic Growth: Is it Worth Having?'). 
The implicit price deflator is often used as a broad indicator of price change for total gross domestic product. It is derived by dividing figures of gross domestic product at current prices by corresponding figures at constant prices. It is not, of course, a price index in the true sense. 
The consumer price index, on the other hand, is designed to measure variations in prices of goods and services representing a high proportion of the expenditures of wage-earner households. 
Formerly entitled gross national product. (b) Derived from series of estimates at average 1953-54 prices, (c) Derived from series of estimates at average 1959-60 prices. (d) Derived from series of estimates at average 1966-67 prices. 
The figures published by the Statistician for the September quarter 1973 show an increase over the corresponding quarter in the previous year of 10.6 per cent in the Consumer Price Index. The implicit price deflator for gross domestic product is not yet available for the September quarter. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950 I present the annual reports of the Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund, the Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund and the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with the reports of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the funds. 
 I should like to thank the 2 honourable members who have contributed to this debate for their remarks. I shall take note of the points that have been made. I think it has to be observed that here is an example of what was a blatant attempt to evade proper tax responsibility. Hopefully, we have hopefully closed that door. In the process it may be that somebody who was innocent may be penalised. If that is the case, I have indicated that we are prepared to examine the position. I must say that up to date nothing has been demonstrated to show that this has happened or will happen. But the door is still open for representations to be made. The difficulty is in framing legislation to cover particular cases rather than general cases. As far as other tax havens are concerned, at least Norfolk Island is a territory of Australia and we have the ability to pass laws affecting it. We do not have that ability with respect to those parts that are not our territories. We have indicated that if income that is properly generated in Australia is sought, by various devices, to be transferred outside it we will take all the steps we can to see that the revenue of Australia is protected, lt is true enough that any individual is entitled to organise his own affairs to pay the minimum that he has to, but when certain devices are resorted to the ultimate effect is that revenue that should have been collected is lost and genuine taxpayers have to pay more to make up that loss. This Government will show no mercy whatever to the unscrupulous, no matter how skilfully they may think they sail within the letter of the law. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Before the honourable gentlemen commence perhaps I might ask the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Income Tax Bill 1973 and the Income Tax (NonResident Dividends and Interest) Bill 1973, as they are associated measures. Of course separate questions may be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Is it the wish of the House to have such a general debate? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
I seek leave of the House to move a motion to enable the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to speak without limitation of time. 
 No official statistics are currently available on the amount of reinsurance business placed overseas by Australian direct insurers. However, when the Insurance Act of 1973 becomes fully effective, insurance companies will be obliged to submit regular statistical returns which will indicate, among other things, the amount of insurance placed outside Australia. When that information becomes available the Government will be able to assess more accurately the nature and the amount of reinsurance being placed outside Australia. This information will also permit consideration of the desirability of the Government's establishing an Australian reinsurance corporation to compete on a commercial basis with overseas interests. However, it should be pointed out that the placement of reinsurance business overseas can reflect in part the need for insurers to spread their risks as widely as possible. This applies particularly to large risks in which access to international insurance markets is often essential. Nevertheless, I would suggest that Australian insurers could have been much more ambitious in the past and I hope that they will take the lead in the future. 
At the beginning I indicate that I will move the amendment to clause 4 of the Bill which has been circulated in my name. There are 6 associated amendments which, with the leave of the Committee, I wish to move at the same time. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  There is too much audible conversation in the chamber. It is quite impossible to hear the Treasurer. 
If the honourable member would speak down, I would be all right. I repeat that there are 6 associated amendments which, with the leave of the Committee, I wish to move at the same time. The amendments relate to clauses 4, 6, 28, 30, 32, 38 and 39 which read in part as follows:  4. (1) Section 23 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting paragraphs (k),(kaa), (kab), (ka) and (o). 6. (1) Sections 23a and 23c of the Principal Act are repealed. 
The repeals effected by sub-section (1) apply to assessments in respect of income of the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1973 and in respect of income of all subsequent years of income. 28. (1) Section 122G of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (5). 
The amendment made by sub-section (1) applies to assessments in respect of income of the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1973 and in respect of income of all subsequent years of income. 30. (1) Section 122p of the Principal Act is repealed. 
The repeal effected by sub-section (1) applies to assessments in respect of income of the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1973 and in respect of income of all subsequent years of income. 32. (1) Section 128b of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from paragraph(b) of sub-section (3) the words ", or sub-section (2) of section 23c,". 
The amendment made by sub-section (1) applies in relation to dividends paid on or after 22 August 1973 other than dividends declared before that date. 
Where the directors of a company shares in which were listed for quotation in the official list of a stock exchange in Australia or elsewhere recommended before 22 August 1973 the payment of a dividend on any of those shares and a dividend was declared by that company on or after that date in respect of those last-mentioned sharesin accordance with the recommendation, that dividend shall be deemed, for the purposes of sub-section (2), to have been declared before that date. 38. (1) This section applies in relation to so much of the following classes of expenditure of a taxpayer as has not been allowed, and is not allowable, as a deduction in the assessment of the taxpayer in respect of the year of income that ended on 30 June 1973 or an earlier year of income and is not included in the residual capital expenditure of the taxpayer, for the purposes of Division 10 of Part III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1973, as at the end of that first-mentioned year of income, namely: - 
expenditure on exploration or prospecting for gold on any mining tenements in Australia or Papua New Guinea incurred by the taxpayer during the period from the commencement of the year of income that began on 1 July 1963 to the end of the year of income that ended on 30 June 1973; 
expenditure in connexion with mining operations in relation to gold, or gold and copper, incurred by the taxpayer during the period from the commencement of the year of income that began on 1 July 1963 to and including 9 May 1968 or incurred by the taxpayer after that period in accordance with a contract made during that period for the acquisition of property by, or the performance of work for, the taxpayer, being expenditure that would have been of the kind referred to in sub-section 122 (1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936- 1967 if the exemption provided by paragraph 23 (o) of that Act had not been provided; and 
expenditure (not being expenditure that is referred to in paragraph (b)) in connexion with mining operations in relation to gold, or gold and copper, incurred by the taxpayer during the period from and including 10 May 1968 to the end of the year of income that ended on 30 June 1973, being expenditure that would have been allowable capital expenditure within the meaning of Division 10 of Fart III of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1973 if the exemption provided by paragraph 23 (o) of that Act had not been provided. 
Where the amount of the expenditure to which this section applies exceeds the net exempt income from gold derived by the taxpayer during the period from the commencement of the year of income that began on 1 July 1963 to the end of the year of income that ended on 30 June 1973, then the amount of the excess, to the extent that it exceeds any unrecouped loss from gold incurred by the taxpayer during that period, shall, for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1973, other than Sections 122e, 122f and 122h of that Act, be deemed to be allowable capital expenditure, within the meaning of section 122a of that Act, incurred by the taxpayer in the first year of income after the year of income that ended on 30 June 1973 in which the taxpayer carries on prescribed mining operations as defined by section 122 of that Act. 
For the purposes of sub-section (2) - 
" net exempt income from gold " means the income derived by the taxpayer that is or was exempt from income tax by virtue of paragraph 23 (o) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1963, or of that Act as amended at any time, less any expenditure that would have been or would be allowable (in addition to any deduction that was or is allowable) as a deduction, other than a deduction under Division 10 of Part III of that Act, or of that Act as amended, if the exempt income had been assessable income; and 
" unrecouped loss from gold " means so much of any loss incurred in a year of income by the taxpayer in carrying on a business the income from which, if any, would have been exempt from income tax by virtue of paragraph 23 (o) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1963, or of that Act as amended at any time, that has been allowed or is allowable as a deduction under section 77 of that Act, or of that Act as amended, as exceeds the profits that have been or are to be included under sub-section (3) of that section in the assessable income of the taxpayer of any year of income in respect of that deduction. 
The value of trading stock to be taken into account at the end of the year of income that ended on 30 June 1973 shall, for the purpose of determining the net exempt income from gold derived by the taxpayer during the period referred to in subsection (2), be ascertained in accordance with subsection 31 (1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1973 and, notwithstanding the provisions of section 29 of that Act, the value as so ascertained shall, for the purpose of the application of section 28 of that Act, be taken into account as the value of trading stock on hand at the beginning of the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1973, 
For the purposes of section 122k of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1973, the cost of a unit of property in respect of which expenditure to which sub-section (1) of this section applies was incurred shall be deemed to be so much of that expenditure as is included in the allowable capital expenditure in accordance with sub-section (2). 
Where an amount that is included in the assessable income of a taxpayer of the year of income that commenced on 1 July 1973 or a part of such an amount would, if the amendments made by sections 6 and 28 had not been made, be deemed to be assessable income to which section 23a of the Principal Act would apply, then, notwithstanding those amendments, section 23a and sub-section 122g (5) of the Principal Act continue in force for the purpose of applying in relation to that amount or that part of that amount. 
The provisions that I propose to be omitted from the Bill would, with effect from the commencement of the 1973-74 income year, have withdrawn the outright exemption from income tax of profits earned from mining for gold in Australia and Papua New Guinea and the exemption of one-fifth of the profits earned from mining prescribed metals or minerals. Profits derived from these activities in 1973-74 and future years would then have been subject to income tax in the same way as profits from other mining operations. The Government has decided not to proceed with these clauses of the Bill. It has in mind that further action be deferred at least until the end of the 1973-74 income year. In the interim, an investigation will be made of representations received as to the effects that elimination of the exemptions might have upon people who are dependent on the mining industry for their livelihood. I commend the amendments to the Committee. I move: 
In clause 4, omit from sub-clause (1) " paragraphs (k), (kaa), (kab), (ka) and (o) ", substitute " paragraphs (k), (kaa), (kab) and (ka) ". 
Omit clauses 6, 28, 30, 32, 38 and 39. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is it the wish of the Committee to consider the amendments together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. The question is That the amendments be agreed to'. 
In, hopefully, closing the debate all I would say to the new boy of the House, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  is that if he had looked up recent debates in this chamber on income tax legislation he would have found that far more time has been afforded to this debate than has been the case for several years. Maybe it was due to a lack of interest in the past on the part of honourable members who now sit on the other side of the chamber. I point out to the honourable member for Stirling that, as far as the first quarter is concerned, the company tax assessment will be on the basis of last year's assessment. This has been done for a good number of years in relation to provisional assessments. All that is happening with respect to company tax is that the companies are now being put on the same basis as everybody else of having to pay as they earn. The wage earner pays week by week as he receives his wage. The provisional tax payer gets an assessment in advance on the basis of what his earnings were last year. Why should companies be in any better position? It will be easier to overcome certain liquidity problems if it is done in this way. If honourable members opposite were honest I think they would have done this sort of thing themselves a long time ago. 
I did not altogether like the references this afternoon by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  to a swindle. I think most honourable members on either side of the chamber regard me as being a reasonable man. I would not use such a term. There is no swindle. All I wish to say in this respect is: Why should a person, merely because he is of a certain age and has a certain aggregate income, pay less tax than some people of lesser years? That is what we are endeavouring to bring about here. 
There are plenty of people who had no opportunity to be thrifty and prudent in the 1930s. Some of them arrived at their age of retirement in the 1960s without anything. They did the best they could in all the circumstances to provide for themselves and their families. I would have liked to be able to give some relief in the Budget to the lower income groups where there is only one income in the family - that of the married person who has dependants. Because of the overall position of the Budget, I could not do that. I ask: Why should somebody, merely because he is over 65 years of age and is in receipt of a certain aggregate income, pay less tax than somebody of a lesser age who has a wife and children to support? That basically is the position we are endeavouring to rectify. That is all we have sought to do. 
The honourable member for Mackellar said that I had never been in favour of abolishing the means test. Candidly, I had not. Nevertheless, there was public agitation about it and both sides supported such a view in the last election campaign. Whatever the end result may be, I acknowledge that we won on the proposition of a progressive abolition of the means test. Once we have done that I think we have at least to acknowledge the economic reality. I think the honourable member will agree with me when I say that in the long run it is part of a social contract that if one wrought in the years of one's strength one is entitled to reasonable certainty about an income in the years of one's decline. I find it very hard to accept that somebody who has a higher income should, merely because of his age, pay less tax in total than somebody who has a lesser income and who has dependants. This is what we are seeking to do here. We are seeking to acknowledge, in the finish, that anybody in retirement is entitled to reasonable certainty about his future. 
 His  actual income, if you like. But I think the honourable member for Mackellar would acknowledge that honourable members opposite left the age allowance stagnant for a good number of years. I think that honourable members opposite made a great mistake recently in respect of superannuitants. The previous Government commuted part of what previously in any sensible sense would have been regarded as income and said it was not income. This is the kind of thing we were stuck with. We have done the best we think we could have done in all the circumstances. I appreciate the arguments used by honourable members on both sides but I would hope at least that this debate has centralised some of the questions that should be examined in the next year or two. This consideration should include everybody, not only those who have been lucky enough to have been provided for by government superannuation funds. And the government has been a better provider in terms of superannuation than has private industry. We still have an awful mish-mash and some 2 people out of every 3 people in the population still are not covered by any scheme. Once a national superannuation scheme comes into being, the situation will be different. There will be a lot of arguments about phasing in and phasing out or, if you like, contracting in and contracting out. We are taking the first reasonable assumption that, once we get to this point, at least part of the aggregate income of everybody, irrespective of whether it is partly made up of pensions payable by the Government or by superannuation funds, comes from the Government. If we look at the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund, we see that, of every $7 that is paid, $5 comes from the Government and only $2 from the contributor and, if we look at the private funds and take into account the taxation concessions that are involved, we see at least that they have been a privileged section in comparison to the rest of the community. The view of the Government is that everybody should be provided for and there will be some difficulties in the transition. I appreciate the interest of the honourable member for Mackellar because I think, like me, over the years he has acknowledged more than have some other people that 1983 will be different from 1973 and that 1973 is different from 1933 but that in 1973 we still have the inheritances of 1933. 1 hope that in the next decade this House sensibly will move to a better transition for everybody and not selective arrangements for certain people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I am reasonable; I will give you 60 seconds. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)- by leave - I shall not need all of them. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  asked why special allowances should be made for aged people. The reason basically is that their savings and their superannuation rights were accumulated in times when the value of money was quite different. They have been the main losers by the endemic inflation that is occurring here and everywhere else and which has halved or divided by four the real value of the savings they have made. 

 Mr CREAN (Melbourne Ports- Treasurer) - by leave - I say: Lucky were they who could accumulate. It was by no special virtue on their part, or no vice on the part of those who could not save. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to extend the operation of the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act 1972 until 31 December 1974. The Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972 came into force on  9  November 1972. The Act was introduced following an announcement by the former Prime Minister of the introduction of a scheme for the control of foreign takeovers effected by means of acquisitions of shares or assets, including mineral rights. The Act was an interim measure which related to share acquisitions only and which included a provision under which it would cease to have effect on 31 December 1973. 
The fact that the existing Act was introduced as an interim measure is itself an illustration of the magnitude of the problem of developing a comprehensive and effective law for the control of foreign takeovers. Some of the policy and legal drafting problems involved have been greatly clarified by experience in the operation of the existing legislation. At the same time, new problems and difficulties have surfaced. We are now in a position to identify essential requirements of reasonably effective legislation and work is in progress with a view to the introduction of new legislation into the House. This new legislation will be brought before the House in due course. In the meantime, it is desirable that the existing legislation be kept in operation and for this purpose I have introduced the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Bill 1973 to extend the operation of the legislation to 31 December 1974. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes to amend the Canning-Fruit Charge Act 1959-1966 to express the rate of charge in terms of metric instead of imperial tons. Canning-fruit charge is payable by growers at the rate of $1 per imperial ton on apricots, peaches and pears delivered to a cannery and accepted as of canning quality or taken into a cannery for use in the production of canned fruit. The proceeds of the charge are used by the Australian Canned Fruit Sales Promotion Committee, a statutory body authorised to promote the sale of canned fruit in Australia and overseas. As the fruit canning industry is to change over to the metric sysetm of weights from the commencement, early in December 1973, of the 1973-74 season, the Australian Canned Fruit Sales Promotion Committee has requested that the rate of charge be varied from the present rate of $1 per ton to the nearest metric equivalent. This is $1 per metric ton, or tonne, and represents a fractional increase of 1.6 per cent on the present rate. It is proposed that the amendment of the rate of charge should come into operation on 1 December 1973 so that all deliveries of fruit for the 1973-74 canning season will be subject to charge at the new rate. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided details of expenditure by State Governments from their own resources on pre-school education during 1972-73 in Table 1. Figures for 1971-72 incorporating minor revisions to figures previously supplied (Hansard, 31 May 1973, page 3069) are also given in the table. 
In addition to the amounts spent by State Governments from their own resources on pre-school education, State Governments spend grants made available by the Australian Government under the States Grants (Preschool Teachers Colleges) Act 1968. Details of these amounts for the same years are set-out in Table 2. 
The right honourable member's attention is drawn to the comments about differences between States which accompanied similar figures given in the answer to  Mr Whitlam  on this subject by the then Treasurer (Hansard, 12 June 1970, page 3682). 
I thank the honourable member for drawing attention to a very lucid and informed article which appeared in the newspaper. I commend it to serious study by honourable members on the other side of the House. 
Firstly, the AIDC does not come within my portfolio. 
Yes, I am interested, and 1 hope everybody is. The AIDC was set up by an Act passed by the previous Government. As my colleague, the Minister for Overseas Trade, fully indicated yesterday, the AIDC has certain problems now because it was sought to amend the Act and to extend the Corporation's powers quite widely, and the enabling Bill passed through this House but is held up in another place. I understand that it has now been referred to a committee for investigation. As the Minister indicated yesterday, quite a number of projects have been entered into involving the use of the available funds, and in terms of the present funds and future commitments it requires more finance to enable it to expand. I suggest that the honourable member read in detail in yesterday's Hansard the full answer the Minister gave to the question yesterday. 
As I indicated earlier this matter is not directly my ministerial concern. However, the AIDC, as presently constituted, was set up by an Act passed when the Opposition Parties were the Government for this country. The Act gave limited powers to the AIDC to borrow. In fact the Act states that the AIDC should seek to borrow principally overseas. At the moment the Australian Government, in view of the buoyancy of our overseas funds, sees no need to borrow overseas. We are endeavouring to widen the charter of the AIDC so that it can operate on the capital market internally. The Bill, at the moment, is meeting with some difficulty in being passed into law. My understanding is that existing funds of the AIDC are largely committed already to certain undertakings of a large kind, one of which is the Redcliffs project. Surely these days we ought not to be thinking of the AIDC in terms of an investment fund of $50m, rather we should be thinking in terms of $500m. That is the kind of capital development that this country requires and the sort of thing that is being talked about in the mineral fields, the gas fields and so on where in the ultimate the capital outlay is of a magnitude of billions of dollars. The majority of the capital funds available in Australia come from internal sources, but in our view they are not as properly mobilised as they should be and we see the AIDC as an agency to do that job better. 
Every government must budget each year for the expenditure of a higher sum than for the previous year because it has more people to serve. So, at least, that means a basic increase in spending to begin with. If we must serve approximately 3 per cent more people than was the case for the previous year, we must have at least thai degree of increase in spending to maintain the same standard. In addition, unfortunately - this is not only true of this Government; it is true also of the experience of the Leader of the Opposition when he was in government - due to the inflation factor we must pay more each year to provide the same sort of services as we provided the year before. In addition, if a government wishes to increase the volume and improve the quality of its services, this will represent a third source of increase. All those factors were present at the framing of this Budget. I think I have said before that the cost to the Government due alone to inflation was something of the order of SI, 000m. It would have been the same cost to anybody else writing the program with which we commenced the financial year. We increased government spending by about 3 per cent to accommodate more people and in addition we greatly extended the social welfare programs, including pensions, education and so on. As the right honourable gentleman said, that amounted to an increase of 18.9 per cent or near enough to 19 per cent in government spending. We more than matched that increase by a percentage increase in revenue of 20 per cent. 
Well, the year has not progressed very far as yet. We are not even half way through the financial year. Whilst one would like to have monthly results, that is not easily attainable under the system, as the Leader of the Opposition would understand. But at the moment there is no inordinate increase expected over and above the anticipation of the Budget. 
Pursuant to section 134 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1973 I present the 51st annual report of the Superannuation Board for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
 My task might have been somewhat easier if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  had anywhere in his speech made some attempt to define what was the central theme of it - the question of prices control. I feel that this is an opportunity for the House to debate the issues of the referendum of next Saturday and why one should vote Yes, Yes or, presumably on the other side, why one should vote No, No. 
Nowhere else do people say No, Yes. As yet I have found no one who says no, yes. 
Next Saturday we will be seeking to alter the Australian Constitution - a document not written for the atomic age but for a time more than 70 years ago. It is not a bad document in terms of 1901. It indicates that those who wrote it had some recognition of the problems of their time. I do not think the Opposition at the moment recognises the problems that this country will have to face, particularly in the next 10 years. The Opposition has no remedy for our time. I guess that this country has had something in the nature of wage control for nearly 65 years. We have had a system of arbitration - never a very perfect instrument and one that took a long time to evolve. Part of the burden of the matter for discussion is that the Government has not indicated how what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition calls such controls would be imposed. I reiterate that at no stage did he define price control. 
I repeat that what the Government is seeking is constitutional power over prices and constitutional power over incomes. I repeat here what I have said in this House on several occasions: I believe that every western democracy will in the next few years have to evolve something that is described as a prices and incomes policy. The much maligned Winter report says in paragraph 73 that the debate about whether wage increases cause price increases or vice versa is a chicken and egg question. That is quite true. If prices are increased, that sets up a demand for increases in wages because they are the sole source of income for most consuming units in the economy. On the other hand, it could be said that if there are substantial increases in wages that makes an impact on the prices and production of goods and services where wage elements are involved. In the finish the question of equity or balance between the two is the greatest single social economic question that faces a democratic society. To travesty it, as seems to me is being done in the course of this referendum debate, is a very sorry situation as far as the future economic development of this country is concerned. I am hopeful that next Saturday, for once, many of the polling booths of Australia will be untrammelled by ticket-pushers and that the public will be able to go along and cast its vote as it ought to - Yes, Yes; No, No or Yes, No. As I said, I have found no curious humans advocating No, Yes, although I have no doubt that some will vote that way. But that is the choice. It is a democratic choice, but it is a choice that ought to be exercised sensibly. 
Let us take the United States of America and the United Kingdom - 2 economies at least that are somewhat comparable with our own. I am not very sure whether either of them any more could be realistically described, as the honourable gentleman who led for the other side described them, as consumer oriented market economies. I think that that is a rather glib description of the economic systems of Australia, the United States or the United Kingdom. But at least in those 2 countries, as a result of public pressure and clamours, there is a system of prices justification, prices regulation and prices control. I think that sometimes the word 'control' is used only because it sets up emotive reactions that take people's eyes and minds off the real question. It seems to me that in this country we are not looking at the matter systematically. We are making a political football of it. If one goes and asks not so much the man in the street but the woman in the shop whether she is satisfied about prices one will inevitably get the reaction that she is not. If one says to her 'What do you think should be done about it?' she will say: The Government should do something about it.' In Australia 'The Government' used in that pejorative sense means this Government here in Canberra. And this Government here in Canberra is not armed with the powers to do what is required for regulating and justifying, or doing equity as between buyer and seller and doing equity as between producer and wage-earner. This is what we are endeavouring to seek by referendum next Saturday. 
It may well be that obtaining control over prices is the first step that is necessary towards what is called a prices and incomes policy, because the minimum condition - I have said this also on several occasions in this House - of getting co-operation on this great question between employer and employee groups in Australia is that the trade union movement should believe that something is being done systematically about prices. In the finish we have to have the 2 sets of powers and we are sensibly seeking the two concurrently, although the prime one is to set up mechanisms to regulate prices. Part of the burden of the Opposition's attack is that honourable members opposite say that the Government has not outlined how such controls would be imposed. This is the great difficulty and the great economic tragedy for Australia as compared with the other 2 countries - the United States and Great Britain. We have not got the necessary administrative mechanisms in existence in Australia yet to do the task, but we need the powers to begin to do it. All that is being sought is authority to be able to do definitely what is now somewhat in doubt. We set up a prices justification system, at which many people, particularly members opposite, jeered during every stage of the passage of that Bill through the House. I think many people are finding now that it has a few more teeth than they thought it had at the time. The thing was deliberately skeletal in its outline because, first, we had to equip it with sufficient staff, and then it had to get its experience by contention with its experts and the firms whose prices it is seeking to control. But it is beginning to have an effect. 
My colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has just delivered a report in the House today about one item of household equipment - carpet tiles. It is the third such report. Nevertheless, it is a begining. I believe that the States, which had power and never used it and are now saying that they are willing to hand it over, have been very recreant in their fields, particularly in the field of land prices, which my colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  will talk more about in the next few minutes. The States have been also recreant as far as monitoring retail prices is concerned. They have consumer protection laws, and all that is heard occasionally is, at the time of an annual report, that some firm or other has been bilking the public. I suppose the worst one - and it astonishes me that it can ever keep turning up - is the case of a firm in Victoria called Milleradio. So gullible apparently is the public that they still continue to fall for the blandishments of super salesmen, and so on - the consumer-oriented market mechanism, if you like. 
Industry today is a mixture of big performers and small businesses. People who suggest that prices are freely made by market forces should look at such areas as oil production, cigarette manufacture, or any of the basic things, where the trade is riddled with restrictive practices. What is being done in this* Parliament as far as a Bill to strengthen control over restrictive practices is concerned? It is laid up in another place by a curious combination of a government that was defeated on 2 December and a Party that has not a single representative in this House. That sort of conduct is bringing the processes of democracy to a standstill in Australia. Everything that has been sought to be done to grapple with the very serious problem of inflation has met with obstruction on the Opposition side from the moment it was introduced to the last moment when it could be deferred in another place. 
Inflation is not unique in Australia; it is a world problem. And the gentleman who will follow me in a moment in this debate represents country interests. The biggest single contributor to inflation in the last 2 quarters, as far as concerns the consumer price index, which indirectly becomes in some people's minds the measure of inflation in Australia, has been increased food prices. We are not objecting to the farmer getting a fair price for the goods he produces and the services he renders. One think that countries like Australia, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe have to recognise is that there are no more banana republics left in the world, and the producers of raw materials and foodstuffs are just as entitled to a fair price for their production as is the producer of manufactured goods. No manufacturer would remain in existence if he did not get more for his product than it cost him to produce. That has not been true as far as raw materials and foodstuffs are concerned. That is one reason why it is not going to be easy to abate inflation as far as foodstuffs and raw materials are concerned, and that has impact in this country, as everybody knows. Power over prices, power over wages, or power over incomes is not the answer to inflation. Inflation requires systematic demand management of the economy. You have to have fiscal powers; you have to have monetary powers; you have to have control over restrictive practices. You have to have a whole armoury of weapons at your disposal. All we are wanting is at least to give this central Goverment - the only Government that can exercise such powers - the ability to produce in Australia what the Constitutional Review Committee said some time ago was an integrated economic policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury&gt;Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Pursuant to section 14 (2) of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1973, I present the first report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board dealing with the administration of Part III of the Act for the period 1 October 1972 to 30 June 1973, together with financial accounts. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report of the National Rehabilitation and Compensation Scheme Committee of Inquiry is expected to be submitted at the end of March 1974. 
and (3) As the Acting Treasurer stated on 9 October 1973 in reply to Question No. 834 (Hansard 9 October 1973) the Government is unlikely to consider the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office before it receives and considers the report of the National Rehabilitation and Compensation Scheme Committee of Inquiry. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) The Acting Treasurer in his reply to Question No. 752 (Hansard 9 October 1973) indicated that it would not be appropriate to announce Government policies in answer to a Question on Notice. At the same time he drew the attention of the honourable member to the Policy Speech and Platform of the Australian Labor Party. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular Interdepartmental Committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information (Hansard, page 1317). 
I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further Question Without Notice on this subject on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answers to Question Nos 964 and 1057 (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Inquiries by the Commissioner of Taxation have disclosed that the Civic Affairs Bureau in Western Australia has claimed that subscriptions made to the Bureau are allowable deductions for income tax purposes. The Commissioner has examined the matter and has advised that subscriptions and donations made to the Bureau do not qualify for deduction in terms of the existing law. The claim by the Bureau was not made with departmental approval. 
and (3) In the circumstances, the need to amend the law does not arise. 
As I think every member of this House knows, in general, sales tax is applied at what is called the level of the last wholesaler. But the wholesale prices of goods of the same kind may differ from vendor to vendor and according to where the goods are sold, so that it is a fact that goods of the same kind do not always attract the same amount of tax, no matter where they may happen to be purchased. While freight, handling and other charges are not subject to tax, they can attract tax where they form part of the actual selling price of goods. This is a matter that has received consideration under the previous Government. A great number of technicalities are associated with it. It has been examined with the possibility of eliminating the imposition of tax on the freight element and I have arranged for the matter to be further looked at to see whether anything can be done to remove what I believe is in many respects an unfair anomaly. 
If the honourable gentleman were serious about competition I suggest that he should have a word with some of his colleagues in another place about the restrictive trade practices legislation. I would indicate to him also the statement made by my colleague, the Minister for Secondary Industry, with regard to setting up a system for assisting small businesses - something that well could have been done years ago and never was. As far as the treatment of private companies is concerned, here again is one of those areas where the honest and the legitimate have been penalised by the sins of the not so scrupulous. The private company law has been one of the most difficult areas and I suppose one of the most fruitful for the unscrupulous for tax evasion and tax avoidance. This Government, as did the previous Government, has endeavoured to close many of those doors. It certainly will make it a lot easier in the future if there be no perpetration of chains of companies where there is not much advantage in being a private company as against a public company. This at least is what we have done by endeavouring to bring ultimately the tax rate for private companies up to the rate for public companies. After all, the only difference between a private company and a public company now will be so far as the number of shareholders is concerned. Private companies, if they wish, can have a greater number of shareholders and become public companies. The sort of logic that underlay the idea that no undistributed profit difficulties exist in relation to the public company was that it was thought that the pressure of shareholders was sufficient to enable a fair distribution to be made. With private companies, because there was a limited number of shareholders who often were closely knit on a family basis, it was easy for the income of a private company to bear less tax than it would have borne if it had been earned by a partnership or by individual activity. I believe that that difficulty still exists as far as the undistributed part of private company profit is concerned. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as usual was very long on his explanation as to what inflation was and what were its ramifications, but he was astonishingly short on solutions. The honourable gentleman referred to the need for positive policies. I might say that when I was in Opposition I used to criticise the Government for its lack of purposeful public policies. The Leader of the Opposition is now in the luxury seat where he is able to say things without being responsible for doing them. This Government has taken action to stem inflation. I repeat that inflation did not begin at midnight on 2 December. I do not think that 2 December 1972, as the Opposition does, was the only day on which the public did not do the right thing. If one judges always by mathematical results, I think that what Saturday's results show, and show pretty clearly, is that it is difficult to carry referenda in Australia if either of the major political Parties is against the proposals. What ought to be observed is that, if one take the great metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne which between them contain fairly close to half the population of Australia, there was a majority Yes vote for something to be done about prices. 
Because I believe that over 50 per cent of people in the metropolitan areas voted Yes. This is the only proposition I am trying to assert. Merely to say that because 51 per cent of the people vote one way and 49 per cent vote the other, that is a decisive answer seems to me to beg the situation. I believe that a majority of people in Australia still want something to be done about prices. The public has refused to give the power to Canberra. I think that sometimes there is too much of a tendency to say that things are done in Canberra and to ignore the fact that many of the effects are felt in 2 places principally - that is, Sydney and Melbourne. Victoria and New South Wales between them comprise twothirds of the population of Australia. Prior to the referendum it was asked: 'Why go to a referendum? Co-operate with the States.' The States are answerable for a lot of the difficulties regarding prices that have occurred in this country. 
It is always somebody else's fault. The other day I received a request from the Premier of the honourable member's State about unemployment in his electorate. It was suggested that, for a sum of $70,000 in a State Budget of over $l,500m, nothing could be done about it unless the State went to Canberra. This is a typical situation. 
The people in Bendigo are laid off work because of the situation in the meat industry. After lall, food prices, and particularly the price of meat, have been the main factor responsible for the aggravation of inflation in Australia in the last 2 quarters, as shown in the consumer price index. I think there is plenty of room for examination of what accounts for the difference between the price off the hoof and the price in the mouth. 
The honourable member says that the workers in the meat industry are responsible. The fanners are receiving some higher prices than before. The retail butcher says that he is receiving no greater margin than before. What about the people in between? Is that not something that the States could have done if they had wanted to? What about the price of land? The Leader of the Opposition referred to the price of a house having gone up. I suppose he meant the price of a house plus land. Why should something not be done about the price of land? As has been said over and over again, one cannot take land across from Albury to Wodonga or vice versa. It is entirely within the jurisdiction of the States to do something about it, but they have done nothing whatever about it. 
Recently I read the annual report of the consumer protection body in Victoria. I suppose that is the last one will hear about that body for another 12 months. The report referred to some company in the metropolitan area that services television sets and radios. Its name has stunk for years. All such firms do is form new sorts of companies and trade in much the same fashion as before. Honourable members opposite cannot tell me that the States could not do something under company law or business registration in matters such as that. Surely, the people who feel most and complain most about prices in Australia are the housewives, and they have every reason to do so. What about the unscrupulous sale of "specials' every weekend when nobody knows what the price was the week before in relation to the quantity in the so-called 'special' packet? Years ago in Victoria we had a document dealing with deceptive packaging and so on, but what has been done to abate the effects? 
It is easy to crow after last Saturday. I suppose it is a bit unpleasant to have to eat crow after last Saturday. But at least honourable members should acknowledge that in this country there is a firm opinion that governments - not this Government only - in collaboration can do something about this problem. I suggest it is time we began to do it. As I said, the right honourable gentleman was terribly long on his explanations but dramatically short on his solutions. He is not alone in that. It is easy enough to be an expositer of the effects of inflation. I would be the first to concede the difficulties of doing anything dramatic about it. I suppose the Opposition could have introduced this same matter of public importance this morning with slightly different terms had the referendum been carried. At least I tried to indicate during the course of the compaign that if the referendum were carried one would not expect on 10 December, 2 days after, that all prices would miraculously begin to fall. Certainly now that the referendum has not been carried we have to come back to the fundamentals of the situation. Inflation is not a simple problem. It is a complexity of forces. But to suggest that inflation in Australia is due to excessive Federal spending is to my mind almost a travesty of the situation. 
It has something to do with it, precisely, but not everything to do with it. Those who suggest that there ought to be a reduction in Government spending at least ought to indicate where they think it ought to be reduced. The right honourable gentleman asked me a question recently about whether I knew whether, on present indications, the outcome of the Budget was likely to be different from what was forecast. I said that I could not indicate that, nor could he have done so at the same time last year. Today I will be circulating the usual monthly round-up of statistics for the interest of honourable members. The figures show that in the 5 months Australian Government spending was approximitely 14 per cent higher in current prices than in the corresponding period last year. In the Budget we budgeted for a 20 per cent increase in Government expenditure over the previous year, and I indicated that almost half of the increase was the effect of inflation on the Government. 
Honourable members opposite would have had the same effects themselves. Do they really believe that if they had been the Government - they have criticised every step that has been taken by this Government to do something about inflation - the rate would have been less? 
It is easy to say that it would have been, because honourable members opposite  aTe  not here to do it. This, of course, is always the luxury of an Opposition without responsibility. I believe that there has been irresponsible Opposition in this country. The Leader of the Opposition referred to the need to strengthen legislation on restrictive trade practices. What is stopping the implementation of that legislation in Australia except members of the Opposition Parties in another place in combination with people who have no representation whatever in the House of Represent.tatives? The right honourable gentleman said: Do something about tariffs'. We have done something about tariffs. 
The newcomer at the back will not acknowledge that had there not been the revaluation of the currency and a variation in tariffs, imports would have been even higher in price than they are now. 
Exactly. I think occasionally the honourable member should seek there, rather than in some of the nostrums that are propounded in this place. Honourable members opposite should acknowledge now what is going to happen in the next few months in relation to international trade due to the effects of the oil problem, which was referred to this morning by my colleague the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  People will be able to produce more wool, wheat and sugar, but will they have ships to take it away and will the freight costs be the same? These are the sorts of serious problems facing Australia. Whose fault will it be if the freight rates increase? Would honourable members opposite blame the Government for that? Would things not have been the same if they had been in government, given the same sort of circumstances? 
The Leader of the Opposition mentioned the Premiers being willing to co-operate with the Commonwealth. I can remember that when I first came into this House back in 1951, when the House was discussing price control, it was said: 'The Federal Government cannot do it; it does not have the constitutional power'. If the Commonwealth did not have the constitutional power and presumably the States did, the States also have done precious little about the problem. I believe, as the Prime Minister has said, that national problems demand national solutions. Having been denied the authority to take action in one way, we will have to take what the economists sometimes describe as the 'theory of the second best'. I am sure my colleague at the table, the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards),  will understand. We will now have to use the methods of the second best and endeavour to achieve co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth in this matter. This is no easy task. My colleague the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  wants to do great things in relation to decentralisation and land prices. This requires the co-operation of the States. But it is a very slow business indeed to achieve this co-operation. Honourable gentlemen on the other side should have some influence upon the Liberal Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria, and, I repeat, two-thirds of the population of Australia are contained in those States and nearly half Australia's population is contained in the great metropolises of Sydney and Melbourne. I assure those honourable gentlemen opposite that if they can persuade them to do something systematically, we would be more than willing to go more than half way to bring about that common solution to what I agree with the Leader of the Opposition is at the moment the greatest single problem facing Australia, namely, the effects of inflation, which causes distortion and inequity. There are a great many drop-outs in the system and it is the responsibility of the Government, to do justice at least and to try to bring equity to those who are the drop-outs, such as the pensioners, the people on fixed incomes and so on. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this measure is to place beyond legal doubt the arrangements for taxation screening of applications to the exchange control authorities in relation to transactions involving tax havens. Screening arrangements of this kind were first approved by the previous Government when it last year relaxed the conditions for portfolio investment overseas by Australian residents. Although the fact was not publicised at the time, the relaxation was on terms that approval to a proposed investment would be withheld if it involved tax avoidance or evasion. More recently, and as announced in a statement I made on 25 October 1973, the screening arrangements have been at my direction applied to the whole range of transactions with persons in the New Hebrides. The consequence is that requisite exchange control approval may be withheld if the Reserve Bank does not sight evidence that, in effect, the Commissioner of Taxation is satisfied that the transaction does not in any way involve or assist or would be associated with avoidance or evasion of Australian tax, whether by the applicant or anybody else. 
The view has now been expressed in some quarters that there is not adequate legal backing for these arrangements. It is not conceded that there is an absence of legal authority, but the Government feels that in a matter as imporant as this there ought not to be any avoidable uncertainty as to the legal efficacy of the screening procedures. While that is our direct objective in this measure, its submission to the House also serves as another expression of our determination to stamp out tax avoidance practices whenever we are able to do so. Accordingly, this Bill proposes to insert in section 39 of the Banking Act provisions that will be effective from the date on which I announced the taxation screening procedures. The Bill declares that the power of the Reserve Bank over exchange control applications is to be taken as including authority to decline approval if the transaction involves avoidance or evasion of Australian tax. The Bank will not refuse approval of these grounds once la person has obtained the clearance of the Taxation Office. 
Honourable members will know from comments that I have made in this House on more than one occasion how I feel about tax havens and the resort that people and companies make to them. I think it is reprehensible that this kind of activity, which strikes at the foundations of organised society, should go on. In the knowledge that all sides of the House share a desire to counter tax haven activity I confidently ask for a speedy passage for this Bill. I mention that work is proceeding on amendments to the taxation law also designed to curb resort to tax haven arrangements. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Edwards)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That  the  amendments  be  agreed to. 
The purpose of the amendments is to give effect to the Government's decision to exclude exports of fresh, chilled or frozen meat after 30 September 1973 from the scope of the export incentive grants scheme. Under the amendments, consideration receivable in respect of exports of meat after 30 September will not be included in the value of a person's export sales in determining his entitlement to an export incentive grant. An appropriate adjustment will be made to the value of export sales in the base period against which 1973-74 exports are measured for grant entitlement purposes. I commend the amendments to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide the basis for the examination and, as necessary, regulation of activities in the non-bank financial sector in the interests of effective management of the economy for the greatest advantage of the people of Australia. The legislation has been widely foreshadowed and it has been generally acknowledged that the powers that are sought will constitute a proper and valuable addition to the economic management measures available to the Government. 
Notwithstanding the fact that there have been extensive prior consultations with groups which will be affected by the legislation, I make it clear at the outset that the Government does not intend to seek the passage of the Bill during the current sittings. We recognise that the legislation will affect a wide range of institutions in the non-bank financial sector and that it is proper that those institutions, and others who may have interests involved, should have adequate time to examine the provisions of the Bill and to put forward comments. The Government, for its part, proposes early next year to introduce further provisions for inclusion in the Bill covering the question of foreign ownership and control. I shall refer again to this aspect later in my speech. 
As honourable members are aware, there has in recent years been a blossoming in nonbank financial institutions, illustrated by the fact that assets of the institutions that will be covered by this legislation increased from less than 8 per cent of total assets of the financial sector in 1952 to over 23 per cent in 1972. However, despite this rapid growth the information available on the activities of the institutions has been seriously inadequate or, in some cases, completely lacking. Thus, an important purpose of the legislation will be to provide a means of obtaining additional basic information about the institutions covered in the Bill. This information will be of sufficient detail and sufficiently up to date as to enable the Government to assess for economic management purposes the need to regulate, in a variety of ways, the operations of the corporations concerned. It will also enable the publication of much more information than hitherto about the activities of the institutions. This is an aspect to which I attach considerable significance. 
The other main purpose of the legislation is to give the Government adequate control powers over non-bank financial institutions, in line with those that presently exist with regard to banks, thereby supplementing, as necessary, existing monetary policy weapons so as to assist in the effective overall management of the economy. 
If you listen patiently you will hear the lot. You can read the lot - and I know that at least you can read. The proposed control powers relate to asset ratios, directions regarding volume and direction of lending, and interest rates. The availability of such control powers over the non-bank financial sector is, I consider, an essential requirement for a government charged with responsibilities for economic management. I want to emphasise, however, that the Government is fully aware of the difficulties of implementing direct controls over this sector particularly controls that would be completely new. We are also well aware of the need to ensure that when any controls are imposed, they do not undermine confidence in the institutions concerned or unduly disrupt their legitimate activities. 
The honourable gentleman is no good example of anything. I have indicated to the groups that have discussed this question with me that the first objective of the Government, once the Bill is passed, will be to obtain the detailed information on which controls must necessarily be based. It is for this reason that the Bill itself does not attempt to specify the controls that will in fact be applied; it rather empowers the Government to apply specific controls, within the range provided for in the Bill, by way of the making of subsequent regulations. Before such regulations are brought down I anticipate that I would arrange for my officers to consult the various groups concerned. 
I might take this opportunity of expressing the Government's appreciation of the cooperation shown by the various groups in the consultations held before the present scheme was finalised. I express the hope that cooperation in future may enable the Government to achieve its objectives without the need to bring down detailed regulations over the activities of institutions. I should also mention that the Government does not regard direct controls over non-bank financial institutions as a substitute for, as distinct from supporting, other policy actions of the kind we have taken over recent months or for responsible fiscal policies. However, in appropriate circumstances, such direct controls can help in meeting particular objectives. 
The legislation is designed to cover those corporations, other than banks, which engage in the borrowing and lending of money in a major way. These are the corporations whose activities are of concern from the viewpoint of monetary policy and which are not currently subject to direct control. Their importance in financial markets - both as borrowers and lenders - gives them significant potential to undertake activities sometimes inimical to effective economic management. The legislation will thus gather within its provisions corporations which may be generally described as finance companies, permanent building societies, merchant banks and money market groups, including the authorised dealers in the short term money market, pastoral finance companies and credit unions. Other corporations whose borrowing and lending activities are important, for example, corporate retailers which, within their own operations, have outstanding finance provided totalling $5m or more, will also be covered. The legislation has in fact been drafted with the aim of covering both existing major borrowing and lending institutions and any such new institutions that may spring up in the future. There is, of course, a diverse range of other corporations operating in the financial sector, including life and general insurance companies, pension funds, terminating building societies, friendly and health societies, unit trusts, investment and trustee companies. However, the activities of these corporations either have limited implications for monetary policy or they are subject to other legislation of the Australian Parliament. Financial institutions of the kind I have indicated are therefore excluded from the provisions of the Bill now before the House. 
In considering the legislation it also needs to be borne in mind that most non-bank financial institutions are already subject to supervision under State or territory laws which deal primarily with the rights of borrowers and lenders and the financial stability of companies. It is not the intention of the present Bill to exclude or limit the operation of such laws and I anticipate that they will, in the normal course of events, operate concurrently with the present legislation. Corporations of the type covered by the legislation will be required to register and to provide regular information about their activities if their total assets exceed $lm or, in the case of retailers, if outstanding finance provided exceeds S5m. However, it is not envisaged that any controls which the Government may decide to impose would necessarily apply to all institutions. A sufficient coverage - in most cases about 90 per cent - of the assets of various groups would he obtained if any controls that were applied to financial institutions were applied only to those with total assets in excess of $5m. The application of controls in this way would also reduce the administrative burdens and, more importantly, allow more flexibility. 
In proposing that the registration and control provisions of the legislation should apply only to institutions above stipulated, but of variable sizes, I have very much in mind that, in contrast to the small number of banks, there are a large number of non-bank financial institutions. It is estimated that there are operating in Australia about 1,000 finance company groups, 200 permanent building societies, 750 credit unions, and somewhere between 50 and 80 corporations operating generally in the merchant banking area. Individual institutions within these groups can also show a marked diversity in the nature of their borrowings and their lending business. I referred earlier to the fact that the Government intends, after the House resumes next year, to introduce additional provisions, for inclusion in the Bill, dealing with foreign ownership and control of non-bank financial institutions covered by the legislation. 
It has not been possible yet to finalise the provisions to be included in this complex and difficult area but I should perhaps refer to the Government's general approach to foreign ownership and control in the non-bank financial sector. As I have mentioned, there has been in recent years a considerable expansion in the non-bank financial sector in Australia and a good deal of this growth can be attributed to the entry of foreign-controlled institutions. The Government takes the view that Australia is already adequately supplied with non-bank institutions and that, generally, there would be little benefit in allowing additional institutions to be established by foreign interests. As honourable members will be aware, I have already indicated in public statements that the Government does not generally favour the establishment of new foreign non-bank financial institutions and the Government's general objective is to prevent increases in foreign ownership and control of existing institutions. 
The Reserve Bank is in fact administering exchange control policy on this basis and the legislative powers which the Government proposes to include next year in the Financial Corporations Bill will merely specify this policy in a more detailed legislative framework. I should make it clear that the policy does not preclude the establishment of new foreigncontrolled institutions, but it does require that foreign interests wishing to establish in Australia in the non-bank financial sector should be able to demonstrate that the Australian economy would be advantaged by their doing so. I also mention that the policy does not prevent the growth of those foreign-controlled financial institutions that are already established in Australia. Of course, such institutions will, along with Australian-controlled institutions, be subject to the exercise of any controls imposed under the legislation. But it is the Government's firm intention that these controls will be exercised in a manner that will be non-discriminatory as between foreign and Australian controlled institutions. The policy to which I have referred relates only to the question of ownership and control. 
As I have circulated to honourable members an explanatory memorandum on the various clauses of the Bill, I do not propose to outline them in detail here. However, I would draw honourable members' attention to certain key clauses in the Bill. Clause 8 (1) determines the type of corporations that will be covered in the legislation, subject to clause 8 (2), which provides certain specific exemptions as well as a general exemption for those corporations whose assets do not exceed $lm. Clause 10 provides for the Treasurer to draw up and publish a list of registered corporations and for such a list to divide corporations into various categories. This provision will enable any controls that may be imposed to be applied in ways which will take account of the major differences in the structure and activities of the various categories of institutions that will be covered by the legislation. It will be apparent that any attempt to impose uniform controls across the whole range of institutions covered by the legislation would be both impracticable and inequitable. 
Part IV of the Bill contains a description of the powers that are sought for control of the business activities of financial .corporations. As I have already indicated, these powers will be implemented, when necessary, by way of regulations. Clause 14 provides that such regula tions may require a corporation to maintain in specified assets such percentage of its assets or liabilities as is determined from time to time by the Reserve Bank. Such determinations are, as are determinations made under other clauses, to be subject to the approval of the Treasurer. I mention that it is not the Government's intention to introduce reserve deposit requirements of the type placed on banks. The specification of statutory reserve deposits in the case of the banks is, of course, related to their special position. 
Clause 15 provides that regulations may require a corporation to comply with directives with respect to the corporation's general lending policy, or its policy in relation to specific types of lending. Clause 16 provides that regulations may specify the maximum interest lates payable by a corporation on its borrowings or chargeable by it on its lending, including the maximum rates of specific types of lending. These control powers will provide the Government with extensive powers over the activities of the institutions covered by the legislation. However, such powers are no more extensive than those which already exist in the case of the trading banks and the Government regards it as essential that the powers be available if it is to be in a position to exercise a fully effective monetary policy in the interests of the Australian people. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am aware of the contents of the speech made by my colleague, the Minister for Transport, to a symposium on urban public transport at Melbourne University on 3 September. However, I am informed by the Minister that he did not say that he had directed his Department to 'investigate addi tional means of raising revenue by the levying of special taxes on motorists'. I am also informed by the Minister that what he did say was that he had instructed his Department to investigate alternative approaches to pricing policies adopted for public and private motor vehicles to determine how a more equitable distribution of costs could be achieved. 
The Government does not have under consideration any proposal to finance urban public transport improvements through increased indirect taxation on motorists. 
There was nothing in the Minister's statement on this matter which should raise community apprehension. However, the misquoting of his statements could well give rise to such disquiet. 
Elections: Television and Radio Broadcasting by Political Parties  (Question No. 746) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The exact words quoted in the Statement referred to were '. .  unless inflation is faced up to, the nation faces another recession within 12 to 18 months and it could be of a type infinitely worse than we have just experienced'. 
No. 
I doubt that such an investigation would be productive. 
It is not practicable to provide a full account of the circumstances here. In broad terms, the growth in non-farm gross domestic product slowed from 6.7 per cent in 1969-70 to 4.5 per cent in 1970- 71 and to 2.9 per cent in 1971-72; unemployment rose from a low point of 50,000, seasonally adjusted, in April 1970 to a peak of 118,700 in August 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen the report circulated to honourable members. Negative income taxation is among the matters being looked at by the Asprey Committee of Inquiry into the Taxation System and the Government has formulated no policy attitude in relation to it. Obviously I do not favour a "shut down of social security". I do favour the closure of tax loopholes - indeed, this year many taxation measures have been taken with that objective in mind. 
Contrary to certain reports that I have seen, the Treasury Library contains a number of the works of Milton Friedman. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Consumer Price Index is compiled as a chain of linked indexes with significant changes in composition and weighting effected at relatively short intervals generally of four or five years duration. The last such link was effected as from December quarter 1968 and the present set of weights is broadly typical of the pattern of consumption of 1966-67. Work is well advanced on a new link to be effected as from December quarter 1973, if feasible. 
There has been recently a marked decrease in the average apparent consumption of mutton in Australia at a time when its price has increased much more than the average of all other commodities. If the All Groups Consumer Price Index (weighted average of six State capital cities) was re-calculated as from September quarter 1972 to incorporate a decrease of 37 per cent (the figure mentioned by the honourable member) in the weight of mutton, the resultant increase in the year to September quarter 1973 would be 10.3 per cent compared to the 10.6 per cent shown by the published figures. These facts, however, signify very little as regards the importance of mutton prices as a cause of inflation - the rise in mutton prices essentially is an effect of forces operating in the domestic and international economy rather than a primary causal factor in its own right. 
United Nations Conference on a Code of Conduct for Liner Conferences (Question No. 1386) 
 I thank the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  for his courtesy in facilitating the passage of this measure, which is urgent. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My attention has been drawn to the Institute's prognostications. I may say that I have been a subscriber to the Institute's publications ever since they were first issued. I think that it has not an unblemished track record by any means. All 1 would suggest is that forecasts are no better than the material upon which they are based. I noticed a reservation that things have changed slightly because no account had been taken of the oil problem. I submit that anybody at the moment ought to be careful about making forecasts as to what is likely to happen in Australia or outside Australia. I simply say that if Western society can no longer conquer recessions, well, Western society has not very far to go. The difficulty at the moment is to regulate booms. But what has happened in the last few months, I think, should make us wary of any sorts of forecasts that are made in the economic area. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the International Monetary Agreements Act 1947, I present the report on the operations of that Act and of the operations, insofar as they relate to Australia, of the International Monetary Fund and of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No; the information is not available. 
Supplementary borrowing in the form of second and third mortgages normally incurs higher interest rates than first mortgages and to this extent reliance on supplementary borrowing will add to the cost of housing costs. But second and third mortgages as such are not a major contributor to spiralling house costs. Broadly speaking, it is the total availability of housing finance relative to the capacity of the industry to construct houses that is the more important influence on housing costs. If the availability of housing finance is such as to generate a level of demand for housing that is well in excess of the capacity of the industry to satisfy - as was the case recently - house prices will tend to spiral. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and  (2)  I have seen  Mr St  John's opening speech to the Conference for the Retention of Australian Ownership. In fact I addressed the Conference myself on the subject of "The Government's Policy on Foreign Ownership'. 
The Government's attitudes and policies towards foreign ownership were explained in a statement delivered by the Prime Minister at the recent Ministerial Conference in Tokyo and subsequently tabled in full by him in the House on  7  November  1973. 
With regard to statistical information, detailed statistics are available from the Bureau of Census and Statistics in respect of foreign ownership and control of the mining industry in Australia for the years  1963  to  1968,  and of manufacturing industry in Australia for the years  1962-63  and  1966-67.  At present the Commonwealth Statistician is undertaking statistical studies of the extent and characteristics of foreign ownership and control in key sectors of the Australian economy. It is expected that the results of these studies will become available progressively from about the middle of  1974. 
Taiwanese Vessel 'Yung Yuan' (Question No. 1261) 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 230 recorded in Hansard of 11 April 1973. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) Monthly figures of outlays and receipts of the Australian Government are published in a document issued by the Secretary to the Treasury and myself entitled 'Australian Government - Statement of Financial Transactions'. The information in that document is reproduced in the monthly Reserve 
Bank Statistical Bulletin. Similar information, on a quarterly basis, is published in the Treasury Information Bulletin. 
The preparation of revised Budget estimates is a major exercise which requires each Department to reassess its rate of expenditure proposed for the remainder of the year in the light of developments since the Budget was brought down. Except in very special circumstances - such as the accession of a new Government with consequential significant changes in policies - it has not been the practice for the results of such reviews to be made public. 
For what such comparisons are worth, the increase in outlays between the first five months of 1972-73 and 1973-74 is about 14.2 per cent, which is a considerably lower rate of increase than estimated for the year as a whole. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for giving me the opportunity to outline just what has been done in this unfortunate context. The Australian Government, like everybody else in Australia, has been deeply concerned about the plight of those affected by the floods and the Government has been, and is, providing assistance on a scale and in a range of ways surpassing anything that has been done on any past occasion. 
That is right, and when disasters like this occur we must meet them sensibly, and I hope that nobody seizes the opportunity to take political advantage from this disaster. Direct assistance began immediately, with the defence forces rendering most praiseworthy help with evacuations, provision of emergency supplies and in many other ways to minimise or alleviate hardship and damage. This assistance was available wherever it was needed and for as long as it was needed. Direct Australian Government assistance to flood vic tims also included provision of special services by the Department of Social Security, an offer of temporary accommodation help by the Minister for Housing, and assistance from other departments. Australian Government donations totalling $600,000 have been made to the various public relief funds. Private donations of $2 or more to these and other public funds are allowable deductions for income tax purposes. So indirectly a significant part of such donations will fall on the Australian budget. 
However, by far the largest call on government funds will be made by measures which the Queensland Government has implemented with the agreement of the Australian Government, and which the former Government is administering. At the onset of the floods the Australian Government offered to provide financial assistance to the Queensland Government to enable appropriate relief and restoration measures to be undertaken by it. The measures that have been introduced include grants of up to $3,000 per family for immediate relief and emergency house repairs, grants of up to $15,000 for major repair or rebuilding of private homes, loans to flood affected primary producers and business firms for whom needed finance is not available from normal commercial sources and grants to local authorities for restoration of their assets. 
What the cost of these measures will be is not yet clear, although on all the indications so far it will dwarf the largest amount of expenditure on national disaster assistance in any previous year. What is abundantly clear is that only a very tiny fraction of the funds required for the measures just mentioned will have to be provided by the Queensland Government. For this financial year it will provide $2m of these funds. The remainder will come from the Australian Government Budget. In addition, the Australian Government will be providing assistance for restoration of State Government assets and will be providing half the funds required for loans to be made from the Queensland Housing Commission in supplementation of the scheme mentioned earlier. Already, $8m of assistance has been passed to the Queensland Government and we expect to provide at least several times that amount over the coming months. For most of the assistance from government level, it will be seen that the Australian Government has been meeting the bills. Viewed as a whole, the assistance that has been and is being provided by the Australian Government is far more extensive and far more liberal than on any previous occasion and we are of course also taking other important steps to help to mitigate the effects of future natural disasters. 
A number of technical matters are associtated with this problem and I will be glad to treat the question as a question on notice and obtain the information. 
I hope the former Treasurer will contain his patience until 20 August 1974. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain Parliamentary approval for Australia to take up a special increase of $US41.14m in its subscription to the capital stock of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development - or, as it is more commonly called, the IBRD. However, only 10 per cent of this amount will be payable: The balance will simply remain at call. 
As most honourable members will be aware, the main function of the IBRD and its 2 affiliated institutions, the International Finance Corporation and the International Development Association, is to promote faster rates of economic growth and development in their poorer member countries. This the IBRD does by extending loans on conventional terms to credit-worthy member countries to help finance soundly conceived and economically viable infrastructure projects in such fields as agriculture, irrigation, road and rail transportation, highways, port development, telecommunications, and electric power generation. More recently, increasing emphasis has been placed - especially by IDA but also by the IBRD to a limited extent - on projects with greater social implications and more direct benefits for the masses of needly people in developing countries, such as urban renewal, population control, public health and sewerage, and improved agricultural credit and extension services for small farmers. 
The IBRD is by far the largest and most influential development finance institution in the world today. During the year ended 30 June 1973 it approved 73 loans to 42 countries totalling $US2,051m. This brought the total for all loans approved by the IBRD since it commenced operations nearly 30 years ago to a massive $US20,335m. Much of this lending has gone to developing countries of interest to Australia in the Asian and Pacific regions, including Papua New Guinea. The IBRD obtains the bulk of the funds it lends from borrowings on world capital markets, which it can arrange on relatively favourable terms - the benefits of which are then passed on to member countries - because of the IBRD's own high financial standards and the backing it has in the form of uncalled capital subscriptions totalling more than $US27 billion at the present time from over 120 member countries, including all of the major industrial countries in the western world. However, another important source of funds available to the IBRD for use in its lending operations are the paid-in portions of members' capital subscriptions. These currently total more than $US3 billion. 
Australia joined the IBRD soon after it opened its doors for business in 1947 and has subscribed the equivalent of $US643m to its capital stock, of which 10 per cent, or approximately $US64m - in terms of current US dollars - has actually been paid in. As indicated previously, the balance remains at call as security for the IBRD's own borrowing operations on world capital markets. In 1970 Australia, along with 74 other member countries, was granted a special increase in its quota in the International Monetary Fund following the regular quinquennial review of fund quotas in that year. As a consequence, all of these countries, including Australia, became entitled in the same year to take up special increases in their subscriptions to the capital stock of the IBRD so as to maintain the previous long-standing relativities between IMF quotas and IBRD subscriptions. The special increases authorised for individual countries are shown in the attached table, which I seek the leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard. 
I am as concerned as anybody else, including the honourable gentleman, about the problems of inflation. I do not think it is any solution of the problem to tell horror stories about it. I say here, as I have said on other occasions, that I am not making any forecasts as to what the rate of inflation will be in the next quarter, the quarter after that or at the end of the year, for that matter. I simply say to honourable gentlemen on that side of the House in particular that inflation is no new thing so far as the Australian scene is concerned. 
The present rate of inflation is lower than the rate which prevailed when the then Government, whose members were drawn from Parties which form the present Opposition, first took office in 1950-51. I simply ask honourable members opposite to recall that sort of circumstance. 
On the other hand, any attempt that has been made from this side of the House to grapple systematically with the problem has been resisted by honourable members on that side of the House. That includes the recent prices referendum. I guess that we will have endless questions of the sort that the honourable gentleman has just propounded. I say, in the hope that at least there might be some sensible debate on this matter and not cheap scoring against each other, that unless we can get employer and employee groups together in trustful co-operation on this problem it will haunt us for a long time to come. 
I think there is an urgent need to rationalise insurance operations in Australia and I hope that in the 12 months or so that I have had some determination in the matter some improvement has been made. As the honourable gentleman is aware, at the moment a committee which is known as the Woodhouse Committee is in operation. I think it is dealing with a national rehabilitation and compensation insurance scheme. I hope that committee will present a report very shortly and when that report is presented, the Government will be prepared to look at the whole field of insurance, including the setting up of an Australian Government insurance office. 
I think that on about 10 separate occasions I have been asked this question, with slight variations, by the gentleman who was formerly the Treasurer. I will repeat, if he likes, what he began by saying: I do not think that there should be so much magic about Budget night. On the other hand, as he knows, some considerable difficulties are faced in changing income tax rates in the middle of a financial year. 
It has been done very rarely - mainly to put it up on a flat rate basis, which honourable members opposite regarded as justice in the past. As I have said on more than one occasion, inflation persists in Australia at varying rates. It has never been below an average of about 2½ per cent in the whole history of Australia. I direct the attention of the honourable gentleman who asked me a question a while ago to an article which Professor Downing wrote in the 'Australian Economic Review'. It shows that we have had inflation in Australia ever since Federation. What is alarming is when the rate exceeds what is thought to be tolerable. 
Sometimes when one looks at the rates to which it has gone it is pretty difficult to know what is the intolerable level of inflation. 
I wish the honourable gentleman would let me answer the question in my own way. The intolerable aspects of inflation are the injustices that it does between sections of the community. Inflation does not ruin everybody - and that is something upon which honourable gentlemen opposite ought to ponder. Inflation affects people differently at different stages of their lives. I can understand the honourable gentleman being concerned about the effects of inflation upon retired persons, but the duty of governments is to try to redress the imbalances when and where they can. 
This is a curious kind of game - to ask me what I think, firstly, the rate of inflation is likely to be and, secondly, whether I regard it as a tolerable or intolerable rate. When I used the word 'intolerable' I was suggesting that some countries in quite recent times have had rates of inflation as high as several hundred per cent per annum. 
If the honourable member will allow me to come to the point I will explain what I mean. The point is that the existence  of  that rate of inflation has not brought economic ruin to everybody in those countries. If one is to debate this sort of thing, I say that 10 per cent is a better rate of inflation than 13 per cent. 
Opposition members -  Ha ha. 
Candidly, I do not find the thing quite as laughable as do honourable members opposite. A nought rate of inflation would be preferable to a rate of 10 per cent. But I do not think that a country is made or broken whether the rate is 14 per cent rather than 12 per cent. What one has to look at is what are the causes of inflation, and I tried to suggest that in my previous answer. Some of the factors responsible for the accelerated rate of inflation in the last 12 months have been higher incomes going to the farmers of Australia via increased meat prices. Inflation in Australia and in other parts of the world will be aggravated in this current 12 months by reason of higher oil prices. 
The cost of the crude which is produced locally - which supplies twothirds of our requirements - and of the remaining one-third - which is imported-goes into the cost of production. The honourable gentleman is the glibbest user of statistical information that I have ever seen.  His  own record was abysmal, but now he claims to have all the prescience about the future and that he would have done in the last 12 months had he been in government that he did not have, the courage to do in the previous 20 years. I am asked what is an intolerable rate of inflation. All I suggest is that we will survive in Australia if the rate is 14 per cent, 12 per cent, 10 per cent or less, and we will survive if, for any unfortunate causes the rate goes beyond those figures. But there is a responsibility upon us to see that we do our best to look after those who are adversely affected by whatever rate prevails. The Opposition claims that we have a lot of influence with trade unions. It is suggested on our side that the Opposition has a lot of influence with those who make prices. Unless - I have used these words here before - there is some attempt at reconciliation as between the price makers, who are comparatively few in the Australian system, and the price takers - price takers are legion and, for the majority, the. income recipients in Australia are wage earners - and unless some attempt is made to get those two groups together, we will have this vicious conundrum, if you like: Do prices affect wages or do wages affect prices? The truth is, of course, that there is interaction between the two. So far the Opposition has resisted every sensible attempt to do something systematic about prices. 
For the information of honourable members I present an outline of my proposals for new superannuation arrangements for Australian Government employees. Because of the complexity of the matter, the Government has decided to seek the benefit of outside actuarial advice on these proposals. 
I can understand that there should be protest meetings in country areas about the removal of the superphosphate bounty, but the question that should be being asked and, I hope, answered, is: Why should this one item of farming costs be singled out to be given an artificial price? 
I will come to that in a moment. I have a little more confidence in the farming community in Australia than to believe that it will cease to use superphosphate if the bounty is removed. 
I would have thought that if a prudent farmer - one must be reasonably prudent to be a successful farmer - received more in return by using superphosphate than the superphosphate cost he would continue to use superphosphate. What the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  did not say was that this subsidy, at an estimated annual cost of $60m per annum, has cost $337m in the 10 years since 1963. He said that because of this $60m being shifted from the favour of the farmers - to the detriment of the revenue of Australia - this will have some untold consequences. 
The latest figures I have for the gross value of rural incomes for the period ending June 1974 show that they are some $6,200m. After all, $60m is a pretty small part of the value of rural production in Australia. 
It may be vital but, with all respect to my friend, there is a great deal of inequality in its distribution. The information with which I am supplied shows that the larger the enterprise the greater is the total subsidy. The largest 200 farms in the high rainfall sheep zone used an average of 200 tons of superphosphate in 1969-70, the value of the subsidy to each being about $2,400 or an estimated $500,000 annually to those 200 farms. So one would ask, in view of the high price that is being received for meat and so on, whether it is justifiable to pay a nice little bonus of $500,000 to 200 of the largest sheep farmers in Australia. 
Let us have a look at another way in which the benefit is distributed. I am sure that this will be of some interest to my friend the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and to wheat farmers in particular. I have taken these figures from the Coombs report. What astonishes me is that nobody seems to have read until now what this document - which I said a long time ago could have been left in a tram - forecast as far back as last August. It shows that the average payment from the Budget to commercial wheat-growing properties for the 3 years to June 1972 amounted to some $968 per property. That amount is obtained by averaging the cost. But of the almost 38 per cent of these producers - or two out of five - with a net farm income of less than $4,000, half received less than $400 each. On the other hand, some 6,700 growers with a net farm income of over $10,000 averaged a direct subsidy of over $1,850 each. 
All I am suggesting is that the bounty has gone, with rather unequal distribution, to the small farmer and has gone, I am trying to suggest, with greatest advantage to the large farmer. Surely this is the whole point. The Government is not arguing about whether superphosphate ought to be used. I hope that the argument will not be put in that way. When the bounty was introduced originally as far back as 1932 it was designed to encourage people to use superphosphate. Presumably, even though many farmers still vote for the Australian Country Party, they are a little better educated in the use of superphosphate in 1974 than they were in 1934. I am told that the annual consumption in Australia is about 4.5 million tonnes. The annual net cost of the subsidy is of the magnitude of $60m. Roughly one-third of the superphosphate is used in wheat production and twothirds in pasture use. Given that the farmer is receiving fair returns from each of these uses, why should there be an artificial price for artificial fertiliser? That is basically what the argument is about. I am astonished, considering all the suggestions I receive from honourable members opposite about reducing Government expenditure, that when the 
Government takes the step of reducing it by some $60m a year there is a concerted attack to keep it there. 
It has been a one-sided and not even-handed distribution of the $60m annually that it is costing. I would have been happy if the honourable member for Gippsland had justified his argument on the basis that it was saving farmers from starvation and assisting food production to the advancement of the rest of the world, but that point has not been made. 
One other interesting thing - again I rely on information from outside this country - is that at the moment we face an overall world shortage of fertiliser. To me it seems highly illogical that members of the Australian Country Party should be encouraging the use of superphosphate in this country at a price below the market price. They are great defenders when it comes to market prices for what they sell but apparently they take a different view of market prices for materials which they use to produce what they sell. I would have hoped that we might have had that kind of debate here on this occasion. 
Surely not all farmers are greedy people. I do not believe they are. But I believe that on occasions they ought to be logical people. Perhaps it would be a better thing to use the $60m that is spent in this field in subsidising some of the poor who Professor Henderson has revealed exist in Australia to the extent of something like 10 per cent of the Australian population, and who exist in quite large numbers in rural parts - not on the farms but in the rural towns. Who gets the main advantage of the$60m? It is the fellow with the biggest wheat farm and the fellow with the biggest sheep property who receive the major part of the advantage, yet honourable members opposite are prepared to justify that bounty at a time when the selling prices of those fellows have never been better. If there were a rural depression there might be a case for introducing a bounty if one did not already exist. But these bounties are provided at certain periods for certain purposes, and if the purpose no longer exists, why should the bounty continue? 
I think that we in Australia must get used to the idea that although a benefit of this kind may have a good rationale when first introduced, its withdrawal ought not to be acknowledged with squeals when that rationale no longer exists. After all, some $60m is being distributed, nakedly if you like, to people for whose need of that money it is very hard to make out a case. On the other hand, I am met with all sorts of demands for the expenditure of that and lesser sums and I believe, on the overall basis of equity in Australia today, given the kinds of things that are revealed about the existence of pockets of poverty and deprivation in this so-called affluent society, that we really would be regarded as a laughing stock if we continued to pay sums of that magnitude to people who at the moment have no obvious need of it. That is the ground on which we rest our case here, not that we do not think that superphosphate should be used or that yields from the farm go up because farmers use it. As I said before, I have enough faith in my friend on the other side of the House representing the back parts of Queensland to know that he will continue to use much the same quantity of superphosphate, even though he has to pay a little more per ton for it because if he does not use superphosphate he knows that his income at the other end will fall and I am sure that he will make a sensible sort of balance between the two alternatives. I came across a farmer the other day who said to me: 'I receive $2,400 from the superphosphate bounty but I would be far happier if you did something to reduce the wages of the people who work on my place'. 
Well, why not subsidise the wages of the rural worker? After all, that would have some effect, perhaps even on population. But when the honourable members opposite choose to pick out superphosphate, rather than fencing posts or petrol or some other component of the costs of production, and are prepared to justify the retention of the superphosphate bounty, even when the income side of the transaction makes it apparent that farmers do not need the bounty, I regard it as a rather selfish attitude. 
The question that faces governments in Australia - I was asked a number of questions about this matter this morning - is the effects of inflation. One would think that no one else but the former Treasurer knows what inflation is. I think we are all as concerned as he apparently is that something should be done about inflation. But if inflation does persist, one must do a certain amount of redistribution. In my view, the superphosphate bounty is the opposite of the sort of social redistribution that 
I believe is required in the Australian community. I think we are paying a larger sum of money to people who do not need it and, at the same time, we are limiting our capacity to implement the real sorts of social redistribution that will make this country a better and happier place for more people. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the appropriation of sums totalling $168,575,000 for salaries and payments in the nature of salary, including the appropriation to specific divisions of a block sum of $32.5m appropriated in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1973-74. Honourable members will be aware that it is normal practice to seek appropriations for salaries and payments in the nature of salaries in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) which are based on rates current at the time. That normal practice was followed with Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74. Since that Bill was introduced, rates of salary, pay and allowances, both of members of the defence force and of civilian employees, have been extensively affected by a variety of new awards, determinations and related decisions. The major part of the additional appropriations in the present Bill - in fact, approximately $100m of it - is required to meet these changes. The need to introduce the Bill at this stage, prior to the time the additional estimates are normally introduced, arises essentially because of them. 
Of the total appropriations sought, $41. 3m is for pay and allowances payable to members of the defence force and $127.2m for salary and payments in the nature of salary for civilian employees of the Australian Government. The additional funds for Defence Services are to meet increased rates of pay, reengagement bonuses and other allowances for members of the force. The amount of $127.2m for civilian employees includes the amount of $32.5m provided as a bulk provision in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1973-74 for the payment of salary increases to officers of the Second and Third Divisions. The amount was appropriated on the condition that particulars of the allocation of it would afterwards be submitted to the Parliament. The Bill provides for specific appropriation, Department by Department, of that bulk sum already appropriated. It also includes some $58.7m required to meet salaries and payments in the nature of salary for civilian employees as a result of awards and determinations made since Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74 was introduced. 
The remaining amount of $36m covers other increased requirements for salaries and payments in the nature of salary arising from increases in staffs and additional overtime. Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1973-74, in accordance with normal practice, made no provision for increases in staff of civil Departments beyond establishments already formally approved at that time. Funds to cover increases which have since been approved are required by a number of Departments. In several cases, the increases have resulted from transfers of functions subsequent to the introduction of the Budget - for example, the transfer to the Department of the Special Minister of State of payment of personal staffs of Ministers and transfers to the office of the Australian Development Assistance Agency of staff positions from the former Department of External Territories and from the Aid Branch of the Department of Foreign Affairs. In the case of the Department of Education, teachers in Australian Capital Territory schools have been employed by it since 1 January 1974 whereas they were formerly employed, on a reimbursement basis, by the New South Wales Department of Education. Savings in a number of existing appropriations resulting from such changes total approximately $11m. 
Bringing the foregoing items together, and allowing for the savings to which I referred, they add up to a net additional requirement of $125m. While it has been possible to meet the increased requirements so far from existing appropriations, these now need early supplementation if a number of Departments are to have sufficient funds to continue to meet salary costs. The present Bill also includes a provision similar to that contained in Section 4 of the Supply Act (No. 1) 1973-74, the purpose of which was to enable the Treasurer to determine and issue funds to enable salary increases arising out of awards, determinations and like approvals to be paid from the due dates, even though specific provision had not been made in the appropriations. Because of the substantial amounts involved, it has become increasingly difficult to fund such increases from the Treasurer's Advance. One commitment that will need to be funded from this provision is the recent 17.5 per cent recreation leave loading. I will report to Parliament after the close of the year particulars  of amounts issued under clause 5, in a manner similar to that in which the Parliament is advised of the final charges to the advance to the Treasurer Appropriation. 
Finally, I emphasise that this Bill seeks appropriation of additional funds for salaries and payments in the nature of salary only. As is invariably the case, additional appropriations will also have to be sought for administrative expenses, other services, payments to or for the states and items of a capital nature. Additional appropriations for these purposes will be sought in further Bills which we expect to introduce early in April, which is when the Additional Estimates are normally introduced. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 I will set my friend's mind at rest on one point, and that is this: There will not be a mini Budget. Let us get rid of that nonsense at this stage. A further point is that 2 years ago I could have promoted a discussion on a matter of public importance such as this because what the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  has said is applicable now was applicable when the Government of which he was a member went out of office; we had the highest interest rates we had had in Australia since Federation. Let us get down to a bit of common sense. It sems  to me that the honourable member is arguing that interest rates should be increased for some people but not for others. He quoted Professor Friedman. He referred to escalations in interest charges and all these sorts of things. For the information of the honourable member - he ought to know this - Professor Friedman is the great disciple of the principle that increasing the volume of money by a certain quantity every year is the genesis of inflation. The year in which the highest volume of money was created in Australia was the year in which honourable members opposite went out of office. In that year the volume of money increased by 25 per cent. That was the genesis of the present degree of inflation in Australia, not that there have not been other forces operating since. 
I want also to set at rest some of this nonsense which is being put forward about the number of houses being built. My colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  will probably amplify this further. I would like to state how many houses have been built and completed in Australia. In 1970  -  and that was a full year of your Government - that total number of completed dwellings in Australia was 161,300. The The number dropped to 160,300 in 1971. It dropped further to 160,100 in 1972. These were all years in which the Government of honourable members opposite was in office. No one can suggest that there were not long queues in those years of people who wanted houses and who were not getting them because of the methods still prevalent for their getting them. In 1973, the last completed year, 163,200 dwelling units were completed in Australia. This is the largest number on record. But a rather odd feature was that there was a drop in the number of houses described as public. This is the sort of area for which my colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction is responsible. In 1973 there were more dwellings in total than ever but a comparatively lower number in the public sphere. It seems to me that one thing those figures point to is that Australia has reached what might be called the physical ability to build houses at about the rate of 160,000 to 163,000. What satisfaction is it to anybody to have money made available by way of loans to build 250,000 hous.es when this country does not have the physical capacity to build that number? This is partly why monetary measures had to be taken. 
One of the great unknowns in this country is what would have been the rate of inflation had we had to continue with the previous Treasurer's handling of the economy. My belief is that inflation in Australia would have been 25 per cent- 
Opposition members  -  Oh. 
Well, every attempt that was made to do something to control the volume of money, to do something about the exchange rate, to do something about restricting the volume of money coming into Australia from overseas, to set up the Prices Justification Tribunal and to set up the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices has been resisted on that side of the House. What would honourable members opposite have done? I suggest that one of the big differences between Australia in 1973 and Australia in 1972 is that in 1973 we found 215,000 new jobs in this country while in 1971 only 70,000 new jobs were found. 
Honourable members opposite base their arguments on selected figures. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the former Treasurer, quoted figures on taxation yields when he spoke last night. But his figures were wrong and the sooner he stops inventing and circulating his own figures with high authority the better. One thing that does not seem to be understood by honourable members opposite is that there is a difference between average weekly earnings and total salaries and wages. There is a difference when we have a 4 per cent increase in the wage force as against one per cent as to what the total increase in wages and salaries should be. One thing that has astonished has been the quick increase in total employment, and the quickest source of employment has been the take-up in female employees. 
It is true that inflation is occurring under this Government just as it occurred under the previous Government. However, I think I had a little more honesty in economic argument when I was the shadow Treasurer than is shown by the presentincumbent of that office because some of his argument is shoddy and shabby and reflects nothing much upon the so-called experts that he has assisting him. I would hope that my friend who is now sitting opposite on the front bench and who ought to know a little better might play a better part. He has taken no part in these fundamental economic debates. He has been conspicuous by his silence since he has been a member of this place. 1 think he should speak out and maybe he could do a little bit of educating amongst those opposite who are now the spokesmen on economic matters. 
Inflation is a serious business in this country as it is throughout the world. Australia is not unique in being the only possessor of inflation running at over double figures. Honourable members opposite should read the reports of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. They should read about what is happening in the United States of America and Japan. When  Mr Heath  was the Prime Minister of Great Britain 1 once suggested that the Leader of the Opposition in this Parliament ought to give his good advice to  Mr Heath  instead of giving it to me. I had the good fortune 12 months ago to meet the present Prime Minister of Great Britain and the present Chancellor of the Exchequer. I rather facetiously said to them, not thinking that they would be the occupiers of office in 1974, that they were criticising  Mr Heath  in Great Britain for much the same sort of things for which I was being criticised in Australia. I think it is time we got a little more objectivity into some of these fundamental debates. Honourable members opposite believe that inflation would have been less under their government than it is under our Government. I say that there is no evidence to support their case if the solutions which they now propound are any guide. Does anybody seriously believe in this country at the moment that a government could increase expenditure on defence by some hundreds of millions of dollars and at the same time reduce taxation by $500m to $600m. According to what the Leader of the Opposition said last night this is what should be done. But could anybody say this would make a serious contribution to halting inflation? I think the public is a little more sensible and I hope a little more sensitive to some of these issues than to believe the cheap sort of tedious tirade that we heard last night. Fancy taking 40 minutes to deliver that opus last night. We had a concerted attack by a potential Prime Minister of Australia, and he ought to be ashamed of it. 
The Leader of the Opposition spoke about taxation yield. How does he know what the yield of income tax will be at 30 June 1974? Yet, he airily goes on record as saying that it will be $500m to $600m more than I have budgeted for. I say now that that is nonsense, and the quicker it is seen to be nonsense the sooner we will get on to sensible discussion. 
MrKatter - Name your figure. 
 It will be more for the sort of reasons I have suggested and - 
 Nothing like $500m. 
 I am not going to answer that question. The Leader of the Opposition stated the figure of $500m to $600m. But I point out to honourable members opposite thatI have to have some degree of responsibility while they do not and the quicker this sort of thing is realised the sooner we will be able to get down to serious things. 
Last night the Leader ofthe Opposition said: 'Let us have a conference of all the people'. The 2 groups one first has to get into conference in this country on what I call a trustful basis of co-operation are the employers and the employees. There was not much evidence of this happening today in what took place in the Arbitration Court when someone from an employers' group tried to stop the proceedings and the other side took what it thought was the only defensive measure to stop this action. That is the first step that has to be taken. At this stage it does not matter about the other groups. There are 2 prime groups in Australia - those who employ labour and those who work to produce the goods and services, public and private, that this community needs. 
To suggest that if the present Leader of the Opposition were Prime Minister he would have happy teaparty meetings and all the problems would be solved is sheer nonsense. The sort of world we want to preserve in the next several years - the Western world - will be faced with this problem of inflation. The rate of inflation will reach double figures in most countries with which we want to make comparisons. Honourable members may think that the situation in America, where the rate of inflation is 10 per cent with 7 per cent unemployment, is better than the situation in Australia, with inflation running at 12 per cent or 13 per cent and virtually no unemployment. These are the choices that have to be made. Inflation is running at over 20 per cent in Japan. It is running at something like 15 per cent in the United Kingdom. Interest rates are much higher in those countries than they are in this country. This Government did what it could to insulate certain sections against the impact. 
The previous  speaker,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, said that the Government could have been satisfying the 400,000 people who he says need houses. The people who are obtaining houses in Australia today are in some respects not the ones who need them most. The people who are not obtaining them are the ones on the housing commission lists, which have numbered more than 100,000 for the last 4 years. There has been very little attempt to remedy that. The Opposition's aggregate figures camouflage the fact that sometimes people are obtaining a second house when others have not obtained a first house. I hope that honourable members opposite will pay serious and critical social attention to the Henderson report when it is published, I hope, shortly, lt is an indictment of the Australian nation - not of this Government or of any particular government, but of governments in the past. It shows that, despite advantages that this country has, something like 1 in 10 of its men, women and children - old people, married people on low incomes and children - is suffering from what might be called some degree of poverty. 
These are the fundamental problems. Inflation does not make them easier of solution. But members of the Opposition will not achieve solutions with the sort of cheap urgency motions they put forward nearly every day. They must scratch around and ask: What will it be today?' I thought that last night we had heard nearly everything it was possible to drag out of the rag bag when we heard the Leader of the Opposition, yet we have been presented with this matter for discussion today. Yesterday we discussed superphosphate and I was chastised at the table because I talked about superphosphate. This matter of public importance ostensibly is about interest. Very little was said about it. There was an attempt to look at all the economic problems of the nation. I do not mind having a full and sensible debate on the Australian economy at any time; but we did not have it last night, we did not have it yesterday and we are not having it today. 
The preparation of the report is in the hands of  Mr Justice  Asprey himself. We are hopeful that we will have a report at least of a preliminary kind that will be able to be used before the Budget is framed. 
I can assure honourable gentlemen opposite that I will allay any doubts. Government expenditure will not be cut because I believe that there is still so much that has to be done in the public sphere to overcome years of neglect - and in no other field is that more evident than in the fields of education and health. In answer to the question that has been asked, I have repeatedly suggested to the Leader of the. Opposition that he might specify what Government spending ought to be cut. The only answer he gives is that he believes some Government expenditure ought to be increased. In relation to interest rates and taxation, the Leader of the Opposition now proposes a curiously different path from the one that he and his Government followed during the last 20 years. 
All three will be used in the most commonsense combination. I have the same choice as any other Treasurer ever had. I could rely mainly on taxes. Alternatively I could use borrowing, and that is conditioned by the interest rate. Or if we were in a period of economic contraction I could rely on the use of Reserve Bank credit or Budget financing. Previous governments - governments of which the right honourable gentleman was a member - in different circumstances followed all those courses. I hope I will follow them more prudently. 
I think the honourable gentleman is incorrect when he says that such people are not eligible for any assistance. I think that if he consults my colleague the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory, who is handling the relief provisions, he will find that is not correct. All I would suggest is that if the honourable gentleman believes there is such a case he should address it to me in writing and I will consider it. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The principal purpose of this Bill is to implement the Government's proposal to extend the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia to provide finance for tourist development projects, especially smaller projects in selected areas. This proposal was first announced by my colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  on 22 August 1973, when he foreshadowed that the necessary amending legislation would be introduced this year. 
Tourism is a nationally important industry involving a wide cross-section of component activities. It serves a common human desire - the desire to travel. My colleague the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, who will be addressing the House later today in connection with a Bill to amend the Australian Tourist Commission Act, will speak in more detail of the importance of this industry and of the need to encourage Australians to travel more widely to learn more of our country. 
The tourist industry is an important contributor to the overall economic prosperity of this country. The key to the industry's continual growth to satisfy the needs of both domestic and overseas tourists is its ability to obtain adequate investment funds on reasonable terms. Nearly all operators in the industry seeking finance for the development of new or expansion of existing projects are experiencing difficulty in obtaining new funds on satisfactory terms. This applies particularly to smaller undertakings in remote areas. The proposed legislation is designed to help alleviate these problems. 
Under the current legislation, the Commonwealth Development Bank's principal function is to provide finance to assist primary production or to establish or develop industrial undertakings, particularly small undertakings, in cases where in its opinion finance is desirable but would not otherwise be available on reasonable and suitable terms and conditions. 
The proposed amendment to section 72 of the Commonwealth Bank Act will widen the Development Bank's function to enable it to provide finance for the establishment or devel opment of undertakings, particularly small undertakings, providing accommodation or transportation for tourists or other facilities designed to attract tourists. The provision of such finance will be subject to the same statutory provisions as those applicable to the Bank's existing lending operations, including the requirement that the Bank should be satisfied the finance would not otherwise be available on reasonable and suitable terms and conditions. The amendment to section 72 will also empower the Development Bank to provide advice and assistance to tourist enterprises. 
In accordance with the Government's wishes the Development Bank will consult as appropriate with the Departments of Tourism and Recreation, Urban and Regional Development, and Environment and Conservation in carrying out its financing role in the tourist industry. It has not been considered practicable or desirable to attempt to define selected areas in the legislation. The Development Bank will be particularly concerned with financing smaller enterprises involved in the development or improvement of tourist facilities away from main population centres. 
The opportunity has also been taken in this Bill to bring into line with the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973 the provisions in the Commonwealth Banks Act relating to the determination of the remuneration payable to members of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Board and the various statutory office-holders under the Act. The amendments effected by clause 4 and the Schedule to the Bill will thus formalise in the Commonwealth Banks Act the requirement that the remuneration payable to the statutory office-holders concerned be determined in future by the Remuneration Tribunal established under the Remuneration Tribunal Act. 
In accordance with current practice, clause 4 also makes provision for allowances payable to the statutory office-holders specified to be prescribed by regulations. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 

 (2.32)- I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision that there should be a distribution of the surplus of $70,015,000 as at 30 June 1972 disclosed by the tenth quinquennial investigation of the Superannuation Fund, into which are paid the contributions under the Superannuation Act made by Australian Government employees. Honourable members will recall that on 21 November 1973 I tabled the Superannuation Board's report on the investigation, which was undertaken by the Australian Government Actuary. The Board's report included the report of the Actuary. The surplus of $70,015,000 as at 30 June 1972 included the undistributed surplus as at 30 June 1967 of $14,779,000 which by 30 June 1972 had accumulated to $19,749,000. The Actuary stated that $52,525,000 of the total surplus was attributable to contributors and $17,490,000 to pensioners. 
The surplus arose principally because the Fund had earned at a higher rate than the future long term average earning rate of 5 per cent assumed by the Actuary for the purpose of his previous investigation and by the Actuary's assuming a higher future long term average earning rate,  5?  per cent, for the purpose of the tenth quinquennial investigation. It follows from this that members' contribution rates are now higher than necessary to finance their shares of the benefits provided under the existing scheme but no adjustment of contribution rates is contemplated pending a final decision by the Government of the new superannuation scheme that I have proposed. I should add that the Government does not pay contributions into the Fund concurrently with members. The Government meets its share of the cost of benefits when the benefits are paid. 
The principles adopted in the Bill are similar to those followed in the 1965 legislation covering the distribution of the surplus in the Fund as at 30 June 1962. As on that occasion, the total amount distributed will include an addi-' tional amount in the nature of further surplus that has accrued in the Fund since 1 July 1972 in respect of the surplus of $70,015,000. Subject to passage of the legislation, the Superannuation Board expects that it will be able to make payments to pensioners during SeptemberOctober and to contributors before the end of this year. The payments will, of course, be made from the Superannuation Fund and will not be a charge against Consolidated Revenue or the Budget. 
I commend the Bill to honourable members. Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
by leave - I have twice before reported to the House on developments in regard to international monetary reform. I did so on 12 April 1973 and again on 23 October 1973. In pursuance of that practice of keeping the House in touch with this matter, I propose to say something; quite briefly, about the last Committee of Twenty meeting which took place in Rome in January of this year, and the prospects ahead. 
In some ways the Rome meeting proved to be a critical one for this whole subject. At previous gatherings we have spent a good deal of time discussing plans for the longer term reform of the monetary system. These plans have been ambitious, both in respect of the breadth of subjects covered and the detail with which those subjects have been pursued. We have discussed such matters as the exchange rate system which should apply in a reformed monetary system. We have considered the rules which should apply in respect of the convertibility of currency holdings into primary reserve assets. We have examined the role of the drawing right - the SDR - in the monetary system of the future. And we have deliberated on ways and means by which countries could be persuaded, or coerced, into policies which would restore equilibrium to the international balance of payments scene more quickly and more effectively. We have looked into the implications of all this for the economic progress of developing countries. 
I should say that, at times, I have wondered just how relevant all this was going to be to the real world. It has always seemed to me that the first task was to solve the immediate problem of imbalance in international payments. At the root of all our troubles was the persistent balance of payments deficit of the United States. The mirror image of this was the persistent surplus of Japan and the European countries as a whole. And, in a minor way, there was the continuing surplus of Australia itself. I have suggested that if countries took the necessary steps to correct their own balance of payments situations, a lot of the other issues on which we were spending a great deal of time would fall into place. And I was in a better position to take this point of view because Australia itself had already taken policy action in that direction. 
The Rome meeting met in circumstances which were, in some ways, strikingly different from those of previous Committee of Twenty meetings. For one thing, the balance of payments prospects of the United States, on the one hand, and of Europe and Japan, on the other, had been transformed. The United States had surpluses in prospect. The European countries in general, and Japan, were facing deficits. The exchange rate adjustments of 1972 and 1973 had, after all, brought about a turn-around in the world situation. Talk of the dollar overhang, and of the need for institutional arrangements to be made to take care of it, became less urgent. All this was a vindication of pragmatism in economic policy making. 
For another thing, however, the real world intruded upon the scene in the shape of the increases in oil prices. All countries were involved in this: America, Europe and Japan - developed and developing countries. The expected deficits of the rest of the world to the oil producers made the earlier United States deficits seem quite small by comparison. The increase in oil prices became the major international financial issue of the moment. As a consequence of these developments the 
Rome meetings split into two parts. The first was concerned with the problem of monetary reform in the new context. The second was concerned with the new strains resulting from the oil situation. 
As to monetary reform, the most important decision was the decision to wind up the activities of the Committee of Twenty. The next meeting of the Committee of Twenty, which will be held in Washington on 12 and 13 June, will be the last. The Committee of Twenty is to be replaced by a Council of Governors which will have the special task of managing and adapting the monetary system. The Council will oversee the working of the balance of payments adjustment process and will deal with any sudden disturbances which may threaten the system. This is not to say that monetary reform, as such, has been forgotten. Work will continue on it. But priority will be given to those aspects of reform relevant to recent developments in the world economy. Other aspects will be pursued and may be agreed in principle, though on the understanding that their operational provisions would be developed and implemented at a later date. 
One aspect of reform with immediate relevance was the question of the special drawing right or SDR - the asset which it has been agreed in principle should be the main reserve asset of the reformed monetary system. If the SDR is to be the centre of the system it has to be a highly valued asset in its own right. What this requires in turn is that there should be some certainty as to the capital value of the SDR through time and that the SDR should bear an acceptable rate of return. It was agreed in Rome that the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund should work out some scheme for the valuation of the SDR which would maintain the value of the SDR in terms of a 'basket' of currencies. This would mean that the SDR would not appreciate in value as much as the 'hardest' currencies and would not depreciate in value as much as the 'softest' - it would maintain an average value in terms of several major currencies. 
It was not possible in Rome to reach agreement on the equally important matter of the rate of interest which would attach to the SDR. Notwithstanding arrangements to give the SDR an average capital value, the present rate of interest of li per cent earned by those holding the SDR would not seem suf ficient to make the SDR the highly desired asset it will need to be in the future. This is something on which those who see themselves as prospective debtors - that is, paying interest on SDRs - take a somewhat different view. The Executive Board of the Fund is to pursue this matter further. Meanwhile work will proceed on other main aspects of reform with a view to having all work completed by June 1 974. These aspects include rules for floating, the role of gold, the link between SDR creation and development finance, and so on. It will not be possible to reach agreement on all these matters by June 1974 but I do not believe that should necessarily be regarded as a bad thing. After all, the discussion on the monetary system will continue but will be related more to practical needs. Monetary reform will become a matter of evolution rather than declaration and we have always believed that is the way it should be. 
Furthermore, the important thing will be that consultation will continue under the auspices of the Council of Twenty rather than the Committee of Twenty. The world financial scene is a rapidly changing one and cooperation based on consultation seems to have more chance of succeeding than one based on acceptance of a firm and detailed book of rules. It is illuminating to consider, for example, that if a rigid system had been established, say, in 1973, it would almost certainly have broken down in the face of the pressures brought about by the recent oil crisis. What we essentially need in the present situation is a good deal of flexibility and pragmatism. It is to the credit of the Committee of Twenty that both these qualities were evident in the Rome deliberations. The Committee of Twenty includes Ministers of the industrial countries, the developing countries and the oil-producing countries. That agreement did not come easily is therefore scarcely surprising. What was encouraging was the measure of agreement that was achieved. 
Perhaps the most important area of agreement was the acceptance of the fact that, for the time being, the oil-consuming countries would need to live with the fact that their current accounts would go into deficit as a result of the increase in oil prices. This is not to say that countries who were in overall deficit anyway should not continue to take action to correct those deficits, or that those countries relatively badly hit by" the increase in oil prices should not take early steps to set in train some reversal of the situation. It is evident, however, that if all oilconsuming countries endeavour to offset the deficit in their current accounts by competitive depreciation or some other policy measures, this would only succeed in aggravating everyone's position, and could well contribute to a downward spiral in world trade. 
The other important area of agreement was that the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank should examine the possibilities of finding some orderly means whereby these current account deficits might be temporarily financed. This applied particularly, of course, to the developing countries who, relatively speaking, were expected to be quite severely hit by the increase in oil prices. These investigations are currently under way. In the meantime there is some consolation to be found in the fact that the outproducing countries must invest their surpluses somewhere. The problem for the time being is more one of how these surpluses would be invested, and in what countries, than anything else. In the longer term, of course, more basic adjustments will be called for; it is too early yet to say of what kind and in what directions. 
On the whole, therefore, I would not say that the Rome meeting of the Committee of Twenty was a disappointment. Reform of the monetary system in any ultimate sense now seems further off. But the sensible approach taken by the Committee of Twenty in Rome to the exigencies of the present situation gives some confidence that countries are willing, in general, to work together and to recognise their common interests. So long as this attitude prevails, there are prospects that we may be able to get through the period of adjustment ahead without too much real loss of world production or world trade. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
What will be returned to the contributors and pensioners will not be their own contributions but an accumulation of surpluses earned by the Fund. I have sought the advice of the Commissioner of Taxation on the matter and his advice to me is that he is of the view that the payment to contributors and pensioners under the proposed Superannuation (Distribution of Surplus) Bill 1974 would not be taxable under the income tax law. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bil] seeks appropriations totalling $100,480,000 for expenditure in the current financial year on administrative expenses and other services in addition to the appropriations made by the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1973-74. Although additional appropriations are being sought for the services specified in the Bill, it is expected that savings of about $ 104.2m will be available in other appropriations under Appropriation Act (No. 1). Honourable members will be aware that, as a matter of law, moneys appropriated by Parliament for specific purposes may be used only for those purposes and expected savings under existing appropriations cannot be utilised as an offset to reduce the total of new appropriations sought in this Bill to a net figure. To the extent that any annual appropriation is unexpended, it lapses at 30 June in accordance with section 36 of the Audit Act 1901-1973. 
For the information of honourable members, a separate document has been provided listing the estimated savings in existing annual appropriations. I emphasise that these are estimated savings. The final expenditure under those appropriations cannot yet be predicted with certainty. Nor is it intended to imply that there will be no savings under other appropriations. The informtaion is provided by way of background to honourable members' consideration of the additional amounts new being sought. Honourable members will note that this Bill does not provide for salaries and allowances. This year the additional amount required for salaries and allowances - $ 168.575m - was sought in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) which is currently before the Senate. The additional requirement for departmental administrative expenses is $29.4m. This includes $l.lm for the Department of Housing and Construction for fees of private architects and other consultants; $2. 8m and $4.5m for the Department of Services and Property for elections and referendum and for rent, respectively; $0.7m for the Department of Social Security for postage and telephone services following the easing of the means test; and $0.7m for the Department of Transport for payments to the State railway system for services rendered in connection with interstate passenger and freight traffic. 
Additional appropriations of $47. 7m are required for other services of departments. These include $2.4m for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to provide for award wage employment of Aboriginals formerly employed under the training allowance scheme in the Northern Territory; S5.285m for the Department of Education, including $l.lm for secondary grants to Aboriginals and $1.3m for assistance to isolated children; SI 1.5m for the Department of Foreign Affairs for payment under the National Wheat Agreement - Food Aid Convention; $5.1m for the Department of the Media for increased costs of the Australian Broadcasting Commission; S1.5m for the Department of Minerals and Energy for oil search subsidies; SO. 6m for the Department of Primary Industry for emergency adjustment assistance to the apple, pear and canning fruit industry; $2.2m for the Department of Repatriation for pensions to widows and other dependants of deceased ex-servicemen and for maintenance of patients in non-departmental institutions; $6. 5m for the Department of Services and Property for rent, property maintenance, furniture and fittings and running costs at overseas posts; and $0.9m for the Department of the Special Minister of State for expenditure on the International Exposition to be held in Spokane in the United States of America this year. 
Further appropriations totalling $23 .4m are sought for the defence Services. Of this amount $5. 7m is required for maintenance of defence production capacity in government factories and industry. Deliveries made earlier than expected of stores and equipment for the Navy and increased costs of fuel for Royal Australian Navy ships and the Air Force require the provision of $4.2m. A further $4.2m is required to meet increases in general administrative and operational expenses. Production development requires $0.23m and repairs and overhaul of aircraft and military weapons $1.8m. Payments on new aircraft for the Royal Australian Navy and Air Force previously not expected to be made in 1973-74 require $l.lm and maintenance of Air Force elements overseas $lm. Other increased costs and miscellaneous activities require $3.1m. Estimated savings in other Defence appropriations amount to some $41. 3m and are due mainly to slippages, cancellations and rephasing of a variety of equipment projects. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 5) 1973-74 Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation for proposed expenditure announced. 
Bill presented by  Mr Crean,  and read a first time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill seeks appropriations totalling $70,362,000 for expenditure in the current financial year on items of capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services, additional to those made in the Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1973-74. Although additional appropriations are being sought for the services specified in the Bill, it is expected that savings of about $68. lm will be available in other appropriations. As I explained in relation to Appropriation Bill (No. 4), it is not possible to utilise such savings to offset additional expenditure under other appropriations. 
When introducing Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1973-74 I informed the House that savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1973-74 had been listed in an information paper for the benefit of members. The information paper likewise contains details of savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1973-74. 
Of the $45.4m now sought for capital works and services, the major requirements are $2m for emergency classroom accommodation for the Department of Immigration; $l.lm for the purchase of residential properties at overseas posts; $33m for the Postmaster-General's Department to meet the cost of new wage rates and improved conditions of service together with' increases in the prices of materials; $7.2m for the Department of Services and Property, of which $1.7m is for acquisitions of freehold properties in the Australian Capital Territory and $4.1m for acquisition of properties for overseas posts. 
Additional appropriations of $ 14.3m are sought for payments to or for the States. These include $9m for pre-school and child care centres; $1.7m for health services, of which $0.5m is for blood transfusion services and $0.7m for the school dental scheme; $lm for grants to the apple and pear and canning fruit industries; and $l.lm for assistance in relation to natural disasters in previous years. It is proposed that assistance to Queensland and New South Wales in respect of recent floods in those States will be appropriated under special legislation to be introduced shortly. Further appropriations of $ 10.5m are sought for other services of departments, including $6m to enable the National Capital Development Commission to meet contractual obligations under rise and fall clauses in current construction contracts. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 

(3.48)- 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has 3 main purposes, each of them quite different. One purpose is to close off avenues for avoidance of withholding tax on interest on foreign loans. Another is concerned with the liability to tax of allowances and benefits received by members of the defence force under the new pay code. The third is related to deductions for contributions for retirement benefits by members of this Parliament and servicemen. 
I announced on 2 July 1973 that the Government had decided to introduce amendments to the income tax law to correct an apparent deficiency in the interest withholding tax provisions. The broad effect of these provisions is to impose a moderate withholding tax of 10 per cent on interest paid to overseas lenders by Australian residents or by non-residents who use overseas borrowings in an Australian business. There are some exemptions from the tax, one relevant to this Bill being for interest on money borrowed for use in a business that is Australian owned and controlled to the extent specified in the law. 
Another exemption relevant to the Bill frees from withholding tax interest on foreign loans that are used overseas by Australian enterprises in conducting a business through a foreign branch. Some financial institutions with foreign branches have sought to use this latter provision to obtain exemption from withholding tax in respect of loans raised through the branches for use by any Australian clients at all, that is, not only those that are Australian owned and controlled to the required extent. Not only could the loss of revenue from leaving the law as it stands be significant. That course could also lead to a complete frustration of the fundamental policy of the withholding tax that interest paid from Australia by firms that are not sufficiently Australian owned is to bear Australian tax. The Government therefore considers that the changes provided in this Bill must be made. 
The primary effect of the Bill is that withholding tax will be payable on interest paid from Australia to a foreign branch of an Australian institution where the institution concerned chooses to arrange its foreign borrowing transactions in such a way that the interest it receives from on-lending the borrowed funds in Australia is derived as income of a foreign branch. The Bill will make the interest subject to withholding tax in such circumstances only where it would have been subject to the tax if it had been received by a non-resident. As I announced on 2 July 1973, the amendments will apply to interest payments made after that day. 
Complementary amendments of a technical kind are proposed to clarify the circumstances in which interest paid to non-residents can be said to be incurred in carrying on an overseas business, and thus not subject to withholding tax. As explained more fully in the explanatory memorandum being circulated to honourable members, a related series of technical amendments is also proposed to forestall tax avoidance in two other areas of the law which are modelled on the interest withholding tax provisions. One of these relates to the source of royalties paid to non-residents, and the other to the source - for the purpose of provisions designed to close down Norfolk Island as a tax haven - of both interest and royalties. 
I should mention that none of the withholding tax amendments will affect the exemption for interest on ordinary savings bank or fixed deposit accounts kept by non-residents at overseas branches of Australian banks. The amendments relating to defence force allowances are in the main the result of changes in the service pay structure based on recommendations in the final report of the Committee of Inquiry Into Services' Pay - the Woodward Committee. 
One change of particular significance from the tax standpoint is the withdrawal of the general entitlement of members of the defence force to receive free rations and quarters when living in service establishments, or substituted benefits in the form of cash allowances when living elsewhere. This development, together with a proposal to provide a specific exemption for the value of rations and quarters that are still provided free of charge in a limited range of circumstances, has made unnecessary a provision that fixes the taxable value of defence force allowances in the food and shelter category at $2 a week. Accordingly, the Bill proposes that this provision be repealed. 
Another provision of the income tax law governing the exemption of dependants' allowances and exchange allowances of defence force members is to be amended. One purpose of this is to ensure that, in the limited range of circumstances in which board and quarters are still available free of charge, their value will be exempt from tax. Another purpose is to facilitate the provision, or continuation, of exemptions for allowances paid in reimbursement of certain abnormal expenses incurred by defence force personnel in. complying with duty requirements. The Woodward Committee contemplated that these allowances would not bear tax. The amendments proposed will permit the allowances that are to be paid free of tax to be prescribed by regulations made under the income tax law. In the same way, it is proposed to prescribe, pursuant to this amendment, that a re-engagement bounty payable to a member of the defence force is to be exempt from tax. 
The Bill will also remove references in the exempting provisions to service 'exchange' allowances. These allowances have long since ceased to be paid. None of the amendments will affect the tax treatment of allowances payable in respect of service before the date of commencement of the new pay code. 
The last matter dealt with in the Bill is the allowance of income tax deductions for contributions to superannuation funds. Under recent legislative changes, contributions for retirement benefits by members of this Parliament and by members of the defence force are paid directly into Consolidated Revenue. The amendment proposed by the Bill will ensure that tax deductions for these contributions continue to be available, notwithstanding that they are not paid directly into separate superannuation funds. More detailed explanations of the proposed amendments are set out in an explanatory memorandum circulated in my name for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which is complementary to the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1974, is of purely technical import. It will repeal existing legislation that declares the rates of withholding tax on dividends and interest paid to non-residents, and will re-declare those rates. The Bill is necessary only because the existing legislation has a title consistent with the present scope of the withholding tax as a levy exclusively on income of non-residents. As I have explained, the Bill I have just introduced has the effect that, under the sort of arrangement I described in my earlier speech, interest withholding tax can be payable on interest paid to a resident. This Bill will ensure that the rates legislation is expressed iti a manner consistent with that position. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill replaces the Financial Corporations Bill I introduced into the House on 11 December 1973 and it incorporates a substantial number of amendments. In my second reading speech last December I said that the Government would not seek the passage of the Bill during the then current sittings. The Government recognised that the legislation would affect a wide range of institutions in the non-bank financial sector and that it would be proper that those who have interests involved should have adequate time to examine the provisions of the Bill and to put forward comments. 
Many organisations made submissions on the Bill and my officers and I have had useful and wide ranging discussions with a number of individuals and organisations, including the Australian Finance Conference, the Australian Association of Permanent Building Societies, the Council of Authorised Money Market Dealers, the Accepting Houses Association and the Australian Federation of Credit Union Leagues. The amendments to the earlier Bill emanate from the Government's consideration of the views expressed by these various groups in submissions and discussions. I believe that the introduction of a new Bill, rather than the moving of amendments to the old Bill, will facilitate consideration of the Bill during the debate and by the public. There are several important new provisions but there is also a relatively large number of minor amendments to the original Bill that are of a technical nature. This is indicated in the statement that, for information purposes, I have circulated to honourable members showing the differences between the 2 Bills and the reasons for the changes. The amendments contained in the new Bill do not change the basic objectives of the Bill. However, I believe they would be regarded by those possibly affected by the Bill as changes of significant importance. They indicate a willingness by the Government to consider and adopt responsible proposals where it is practicable and desirable to do so. 
Honourable members will recall from my second reading speech on 11 December that the purpose of the Bill is to provide the basis for the examination and, as necessary, regulation of activities in the non-bank financial sector in the interests of effective management of the economy for the greatest advantage of the people of Australia. Briefly stated, the Bill requires a wide range of financial corporations whose assets exceed $lm to register at the Reserve Bank and to provide certain information about their activities to assist in allocation of the corporations to appropriate categories. The corporations would then be required to provide statistical information and those whose assets exceed $5m would be subject to any economic management controls on asset ratios, lending and interest rates applicable to their particular category that might be introduced by subsequent regulations. Any determinations under such regulations would be made by the Reserve Bank with the Treasurer's approval. The amounts to which I have referred may be changed by regulation. 
Before turning to the more important of the amendments, I should inform honourable members that the Government has decided not to include in the present Bill provisions relating to the question of foreign ownership and control of non-bank financial institutions. I mentioned in my second reading speech on the earlier Bill that it had not been possible at that time to finalise the provisions to be included in this complex and difficult area, and I went on to outline the Government's general approach on this question. It has now been decided that it would be more appropriate if these foreign control provisions were contained in separate legislation. In the meantime the Reserve Bank is continuing to administer exchange control in accordance with the policy which I set out in my earlier speech. 
With regard to the amendments, it is clear that several organisations representing finance groups place great store on provisions allowing for consultation. Provision has therefore been made in clause 30 for the Treasurer to appoint a committee or committees of persons to advise him on matters to be included in regulations to be made under the legislation and on the operation of the legislation. 
In addition, clause 31 provides for the Reserve Bank to consult with associations or other bodies representing registered corporations to keep itself informed of their views in relation to the exercise by the Bank of its powers under the legislation and of trends in activities of their members. The Government attaches considerable importance to voluntary co-operation and consultation in economic management, and considers that the provisions for consultation with representatives of the non-bank finance sector will assist in obtaining voluntary co-operation from the institutions concerned. Such consultations will also provide a means by which representatives of the various industry groups will be able to express their views on proposed regulations and on how the legislation is operating generally. 
I emphasise here that the Government proposes to consult appropriate advisory committees before making regulations to give effect to the control powers. In addition there will, of course, be the normal opportunity for Parliament to review regulations made under the legislation. I well understand the concern that has been expressed about the use which could be made of the wide powers proposed to be taken in the Bill but I suggest that it is most important to appreciate that the exercise of such powers will be given effect only by bringing down regulations in the manner I have described. Such regulations will, of course, impose limits on the extent to which the control powers will be subject to administrative discretion. 
Mir CREAN  -  Yes, I do. I refer in this context to suggestions that all control determinations made under regulations should instead themselves be implemented by regulations so as to permit parliamentary review and that, while such regulations might come into force immediately, they should lapse after a specified period unless debated and affirmed by both Houses of Parliament There is, of course, already opportunity for parliamentary and public debate of changes in monetary policy. At the same time, such changes are essentially a matter for which the Government is responsible and equipped to deal, and do not seem to be readily susceptible to detailed examination and review by Parliament. Indeed a review procedure conducted in the context that a determination would not finally be effective until passed by Parliament would increase uncer tainty in the money and capital markets and could give rise to substantial problems if disallowed. 
I would also draw honourable members' attention in this context to a new provision which has been made in clause 18 for the Treasurer, after consulting the Reserve Bank, to exempt a corporation from the application of any control determination if he considers that the public interest and the existence of special circumstances justify his so doing. An exemption under this clause may be subject to conditions and will be published in the Gazette not later than 90 days after the instrument of exemption is signed by the Treasurer. It is intended that this provision would be used only where unforeseen difficulties arise in the application of a determination and it provides an additional safeguard for corporations that may become subject to controls. 
Another amendment relevant to this aspect is the inclusion of a provision in clause 13 (2) requiring the prescription of a minimum period of not less than 30 days for complying with any asset ratio determination fixing an initial or increased ratio. However, it would not, of course, be desirable to stipulate any such minimum period for an interest rate or lending policy determination. I believe that the foregoing amendments which I have outlined should considerably alleviate the worries of those who, notwithstanding the assurances I have given that the legitimate activities of corporations will not be unduly disrupted, have expressed concern at the wide powers given in the Bill. It has not been possible to go any further without a possible substantial reduction in the effective operation of the legislation. For instance, the Government has not been able to accept that 'lender of last resort' facilities or guarantees of liquidity should be provided to certain institutions subject to the Bill. The provision of lender of last resort facilities to the banks and authorised money market dealers stems from their special position in the financial sector, including the very detailed legislative or other close supervision by the Australian Government. In the case of most non-bank institutions, such supervision is, of course, carried out by State governments. It is not always appreciated that lender of last resort facilities are not automatically available to the banks as of right; nor that access to such facilities carries with it certain obligations in relation to holdings of government securities and deposits with the Reserve Bank. 
I indicated in my earlier second reading speech that it is not the Government's intention to introduce under this legislation reserve deposit requirements of the type placed on banks. 
The Government has also not been able to accept representations that certain groups of financial corporations, such as permanent building societies, should be exempted from the Bill because they are in a special position or because they are largely mutual, non-profit making institutions. The activities of all the financial corporations covered by the Bill are currently or potentially important for economic conditions and therefore for economic policy. The exclusion of any group would materially weaken the proposed legislation and could make the achievement of the broad objectives of the legislation substantially more difficult to achieve. The fact that a group of institutions is non-profit making, or that they are operating in an area of social importance, does not reduce the capacity of those institutions, in certain circumstances, to undertake activities that could be inimical to effective economic management and thereby involve both economic and social costs to the community. Those who have criticised this legislation as having the potential to increase the costs of institutions, and hence of finance provided by such institutions, would do well to reflect on the addition to costs when there is excess lending. To the extent that special features attach to the operation of particular groups of intermediaries, these wil be taken fully into account in the administration of the legislation. 
Other amendments in the new Bill include provisions for extensions of time or exemptions to be granted in respect of statistical requirements, and a general prohibition on publication of information relating to the affairs of a particular corporation without its consent. Clause 27 ensures the secrecy of any information provided by corporations, and clause 28 provides a corporation with a defence to prosecution for failing to comply with the legislation if the corporation was not aware of a relevant fact or occurence. Clause 10 has been amended to provide for 'the Treasurer to review the categorisation of a particular corporation if the corporation requests it and, to require that, in determining in which category a corporation is to be included, the Treasurer is to have regard to certain features of a corporation's financial structure. 
In conclusion, I should again emphasise that the Government is fully aware of the difficulties involved in implementing direct controls over the activities of the non-bank financial sector and of the need to ensure that any controls imposed do not undermine confidence in the institutions concerned or unduly disrupt their legitimate activities. This is reflected, amongst other things, in the consultations that have already taken place with finance groups and the Government's proposed amendment to formalise such consultations in the future with regard to the formulation of regulations and on the operation of the proposed legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I move: 
That the Order of the Day, Government Business, for the resumption of the debate on the second reading of the Financial Corporations Bill 1973 be discharged. 
In moving the withdrawal of the Financial Corporations Bill - that is the earlier Bill that has now been replaced - which I introduced on 11 December 1973 I have in mind the remarks made in the House on 7 March 1974 by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  following the motion to resume the proceedings on the Bill. Since the adoption of that motion, the Government has decided on a number of amendments to the 1973 Bill following consideration of various submissions on the Bill from interested persons and organisations. These amendments have been incorporated in the Financial Corporations Bill 1974 that I have just introduced. As I said then, I believe that the introduction of a new Bill rather than the moving of amendments to the old Bill will facilitate fresh consideration of the Bill during the debate and by the public. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The long-term (20 year) security offered in the cash and conversion loan in October 1973 carried an 8i per cent interest rate compared with the 7 per cent rate offered on the comparable long-term security issued in the previous loan in July 1973. The October cash loan raised $266.7m. 
Details of subscriptions to public loans issued by the Australian Government have been regarded as confidential information by successive Australian Governments and by the State Governments on whose behalf a large proportion of the funds are raised. If a departure from this practice were to be made with respect to any individual subscribers then, apart from any questions of principle, a precedent could be established for publicising subscriptions - both large and small - which could have adverse effects on the Governments' ability to raise loan funds. 
The amount of savings bank deposits held by the Reserve Bank decreased by some $48. 8m during the week ended 24 October 1973. Movements of funds into and out of these accounts would reflect many factors including movements in funds available to individual savings banks and the relative attractiveness of a range of alternative avenues open for savings bank investment as assessed by the managements of the savings banks. 
Changes in Banking Practice (Question No. 23) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Immediately before the last House of Representatives elections on 2 December 1972 the standard (or single) rate of pension was $20.00 a week, representing 20.0 per cent of seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings per employed male unit for the December quarter 1972. As a result of legislation enacted early in 1973, pension rates were increased, retrospectively, from the first pension pay-day after the elections. The standard (or single) rate was increased to $21.50 a week or 21.5 per cent of average weekly earnings per employed male unit for the December quarter 1972. (b), (c), (d) and (e) The standard (or single) rate of pension payable during the four quarters of 1973 and the percentage of seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings per employed male unit (A.W.E.) it represented for each of those quarters, respectively, were: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Australian Economic Review, 4th Quarter 1973, produced by the Intsitute of Applied Economic and Social Research, the claim is made that, under certain conditions, 'the Australian economy will move to an inflationary situation as serious as that posed by the Korean War boom'. The Institute provides no detailed analysis of how it arrived at this forecast. The forecast has been noted, but no study has been undertaken as a consequence of it. 
See answer to (1). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See the answer to Question 19, part (2). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Because the factors influencing trends in imports are always changing, estimates of imports are subject to continuous review. However, if the recent rate of importing is maintained during the remaining months of the financial year, the increase in imports in 1973-74 over the preceding financial year is likely to be in excess of $800m. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) It is now expected that both Budget outlays and Budget receipts in 1973-74 will be rather higher than estimated at the time the Budget was being prepared. The preparation of revised Budget estimates is a major exercise which requires each Department to reassess its rate of expenditure, or, in the case of the revenue collecting agencies, the rate of inflow of revenue, in the light of developments since the Budget was brought down. However, the estimates cannot be subjected to the rigorous examination required for budget estimating purposes and for that reason, except in very special circumstances (such as the accession of a new Government with consequential significant changes in policies), it has not been the practice to publish revised estimates during the budget year. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the purpose of estimating personal income tax collections in framing the 1973-74 Budget, it was assumed that average weekly earnings would increase by 13 per cent in 1973-74. Preliminary statistics are now available for the first half of the financial year and these show that average weekly earnings during that period were 14.5 per cent higher than during the 'first half of 1972-73. It now seems likely that the rate of increase in average weekly earnings in 1973-74 will exceed that assumed at the time of the 1973-74 Budget. 
The percentage increases in average earnings over the past four financial years have been as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that the Committee has received565 written submissions. 
When the Committee was established, no definite timetable was set down with respect to the submission of its Report. The Government is anxious not to constrain the Committee in its investigations into what is a complex and wide ranging area, and accordingly no time has been set for the completion of the Committee's task. 
Yes. 
Department of Immigration: Creation off Positions (Question No. 113) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Budget estimate for personal income tax collections (net) in 1973-74 is $5, 179m, an increase of $ 1,089m or 27 per cent compared with net collections in 1972-73. In making that estimate, it was assumed that average weekly earnings would increase by 13 per cent in 1973-74. Preliminary statistics now available for the first half of the financial year show that average weekly earnings during that period were 14.5 per cent higher than during the first half of 1972-73. It now seems very likely that the rate of increase in average weekly earnings in 1973-74 will exceed that assumed at the time of the 1973-74 Budget, but by how much remains uncertain owing to the unpredictability of, among other things, the outcome of the Metal Trades negotiations and the National Wage Case. It is, however, very likely that net collections of personal income tax will exceed the estimate at Budget time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Increases in consumer prices in the following countries during the 12 months to December 1973 were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Commissioner of Taxation has the sole responsibility for the administration of the taxing laws. 
The Commissioner has advised that itis customary to issue a questionnaire where the information contained in the return is insufficient to determine the extent to which travelling expenses were incurred in the derivation of assessable income. Inquiries of this kind are not limited to members of the medical profession. 
Questionnaires have been sent to 375 individuals and SO partnerships engaged in medical practice in South Australia in respect of the 1972-73 income year. Figures for the preceding income year are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Income tax returns have, on the whole, been lodged at a slower rate this financial year than they were in the previous year. However, apart from the month of July, assessments made and which issued to taxpayers have exceeded the number made and issued in the same periods during the preceding year. As at March 1 1974, refund cheques which had issued to taxpayers totalled nearly 4.5 million or over 90,000 more than to the same date in the preceding financial year. Income tax returns of individual taxpayers assessed to the same date, including those in which no refund is involved, exceeded 5.6 million or nearly 12,000 more than in the previous year for the same period. 
Accordingly, the answer to the honourable member's questions are: 
No. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
The position mentioned in the latter part of the honourable gentleman's question is the situation that prevails. A number of approaches have been made to the Government. I think it should be appreciated that there is considerable difficulty in making a global sum available for an industry in the absence of particular details from individual firms. When this question was first raised - the honourable member for Kalgoorlie has been persistent in drawing attention to the situation in the industry - and when we discussed it some months ago gold was selling at about $65 an ounce. Today the price is well above $A100 an ounce; it is something like $A110 an ounce. Certainly, the situation of some of the companies is different now from previously. The situation as it applies now is that 2 or 3 firms apparently are providing their own capital development from the increased prosperity in particular cases. One firm - I do not particularly want to mention any firm individually - has an application before the Australian Industry Development Corporation and it is being considered on the merits of the figures put forward. That does not preclude the company from finding help in another direction if help is not found there. 
However, I would also point out that as recently as a day or so ago the Prime Minister, who is in charge of the Industries Assistance Commission, signed a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission to enable it to consider the need for assistance for the production of gold in Australia. That is at least one further channel where individual cases can be looked at. I assure the honourable member that we are aware of the difficulties prevailing in one or- two particular instances. Above all, we are aware of the importance of this industry to the viability of Kalgoorlie as an example of decentralisation in Australia. I assure the honourable member that every door will remain open to industry to enable a satisfactory conclusion to be reached in respect of any problems. 
I move: 
That the Bill  be  now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of up to $66m to assist the State of Queensland in financing the cost of measures designed to alleviate the effects of the disastrous floods which occurred in that State be tween January and March of this year. This figure is based on the latest estimates of costs supplied by the State; it represents a reduction of some $14m on earlier estimates. In terms of hardship and damage, the floods were one of the largest, if not the largest, disasters that has occurred in this country. 
Honourable members will recall that, in response to a question on 5 March, I informed the House that the assistance which the Australian Government was providing to assist those who had suffered as a result of the flooding and to restore damage to public assets was on a far more extensive and liberal scale than on any previous occasion. I referred to the praiseworthy work of the defence forces in helping with evacuations, providing emergency supplies and in other ways assisting to minimise or alleviate hardship. I referred also to the special services which were being provided by the Department of Social Security, the offer of temporary accommodation help by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  the assistance from other departments and the donations totalling $600,000 that the Australian Government had made to public relief funds. I mentioned, in addition, that private donations of $2 or more to these and other public funds are allowable deductions for income tax purposes resulting in a significant part of such donations falling on the Australian Government Budget. However, as I said then, by far the largest call on Government funds will be made by measures which the Queensland Government has implemented with the agreement of the Australian Government, and which the State is administering. 
At the onset of the floods, the Australian Government offered to provide financial assistance to the Queensland Government to enable appropriate relief and restoration measures to be undertaken by it. The measures which have been agreed between the governments include grants for immediate relief and emergency house repairs, grants and loans for major repair or rebuilding of private homes, loans to flood-affected primary producers and business firms, and expenditure on the restoration of public assets destroyed or damaged in the floods. 
The Bill provides that the conditions of the financial assistance which the Australian Government is providing are to be as the Treasurer determines. The Australian Government's financial assistance to the State will be provided by way of grants where the expenditure by the State on the agreed relief and rehabilitation measures takes the form of grants, and by way of interest-free loans where the expenditure takes the form of loans. I seek leave of the House to have details of the various categories of assistance, showing estimated expenditures on each, incorporated in Hansard. 
Total grants are estimated to amount to $56.9m and loans to $12.75m. The Queensland Government's share of this expenditure is expected to amount to $3.65m, a very small fraction indeed of the funds required for the measures I have mentioned. The amount that the Australian Government expects to provide. $66m, will dwarf any previous expenditture on assistance provided in the case of any single disaster. Loans by the Australian Government to the State will be interest-free. It has been agreed that the State may charge interest on loans at concessional rates, the interest thus received being available to cover administrative costs and to assist the State in meeting any losses arising from bad debts. 
The Bill provides for assistance extending over a period of three financial years, including 1973-74. The measures which the Australian Government is supporting are both wideranging and liberal. In agreeing to these measures, the Government was actuated by the extent of the Queensland disaster, which affected a very large number of people; many of whom were inadequately covered by insurance. The Government welcomed offers from insurance organisations to discuss the inclusion of cover for natural disasters in housing insurance policies. Preliminary discussions for this purpose have already taken place between officers of my Department and representatives of the various insurance organisations concerned. Officers of my Department will take up with representatives of the banks, insurance companies and other financial corporations that provide finance for housing the question of their lending policies and insurance cover in relation to houses constructed in areas affected by natural disasters. An examination will also be made of questions relating to insurance of crops and livestock against natural disasters. 
These disastrous floods have focused attention on the need for an adequate approach to the question of flood mitigation and the Government is examining this problem as a matter of urgency. 
To sum up, the Government is providing assistance on an unprecedentedly generous scale to those who have suffered loss as a result of the floods. It is urgently examining ways in which protection may be increased against future occurrences of a similar nature. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As honourable members will be aware, the severe flooding which occurred in the early part of the year affected New South Wales as well as Queensland. The purpose of this Bill is to authorize the payment of up to $5. 5m to assist the State of New South Wales in financing the cost of measures designed to alleviate the effects of the floods. The damage caused by the flooding in New South Wales, although not as widespread or as devastating as in Queensland, nevertheless caused considerable hardship and suffering to those involved and the Australian Government expressed its readiness to assist the New South Wales Government in providing aid to those affected. 
The Assistance authorized by this Bill is considerably less than that authorised by the Bill relating to Queensland. This can be ascribed to two factors: Firstly, because of the lesser extent of the disaster, the range of measures for which the New South Wales Government sought financial support from the Australian Government was not as extensive as in the case of Queensland and, secondly, the expenditure on relief measures which the State Government is meeting from its own resources is greater in New South Wales than in Queensland. Particulars of estimated expenditure have been supplied by the New South Wales Government authorities and I ask that they be incorporated in Hansard. 
Certain other measures are under discussion between the Australian and New South Wales Governments and allowance has been made for costs in this legislation. The overall cost of the measures is estimated at $14. lm. After allowing for expenditure which will be met by the State from its own resources, the estimated cost to the Australian Government is $5. 5m. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not available in the form requested. The Commonwealth. Statistician collects and publishes details of the amount pf capital extended by: 
finance companies under wholesale finance agreements (which includes all goods and of which, motor cars form only a part), and 
non-retail finance businesses for the purchase of motor vehicles (which includes both new and second hand cars as well as motor cycles, boats, caravans, trailers, motor parts and accessories). 
Interest charges are not collected for either of the above categories. 
For the honourable member's information the tables below give a summary of the capital provided for the purposes outlined above, by States, for the five calendar years prior to 1 January 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure on econometric research and model building within the Treasury is not separately costed. Most of the research of this nature is carried out by a small group of third division officers in the General Financial and Economic Policy Division of the Treasury, but such research occupies only part of their time. There is also a small unit in the Australian Bureau of Statistics which carries out econometric research and model building in co-operation with the Treasury officers referred to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. I have never said that countries have 'coped adequately' with annual inflation rates of around 600 per cent. I have, on occasions, referred to the experience of countries which have recorded inflation rates of that kind. My purpose in doing so has been to contrast the experience of those countries with the situation in Australia where the rate of price increase has recently been about 13 per cent per annum. 
Hire Purchase Companies: Loans to General Public  (Question No. IS) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 17. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) In view of the complexity of. the matter the Government has decided to seek the benefit of outside actuarial advice on my proposals for a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees. These proposals were tabled in the House on 12 March 1974. The Institute of Actuaries of Australia and New Zealand has been invited to suggest a panel of names from which an actuary or actuaries will be selected to examine and report on the proposals. 
No, my proposals are based on the majority recommendations in the Report I tabled on 8 May 1973. 
and (5) See my answer to (3) above. 
 I thank the honourable member for that question because it affords me the opportunity of shedding a bit of light on both sides of this Parliament.. I commend to the attention of everybody a document that was published yesterday. It is called: 'National Accounting Estimates of Public Authority Receipts and Expenditure, March 1974'. It is a digest of expenditure at all public levels in Australia, including State government, local government, semi-governmental and so on. It discloses that in 1973-74 the projected outlays by all levels of government are estimated to total $15.7 billion. Out of that sum the State governments and their local and semigovernmental authorities will be responsible for about $7.9 billion, or slightly more than half. These figures relate to total outlays including direct expenditure on both goods and services and transfers - items like social service payments, payments in cash and kind and so on. The expenditure on what is described as 'goods and services' is tabulated. They are the payments excluding transfers. The States are responsible for an even larger proportion. It is estimated that total public expenditure on goods and services in 1973-74 will be about $10.6 billion, of which the States and their authorities will be responsible for about $6.8 billion, or two-thirds. In respect of governmental capital expenditure in Australia, which aggregates more than $4 billion, the Commonwealth is responsible for only $l,100m. In other words near enough to three-quarters of capital expenditure in Australia is not conducted directly at the federal level at all. 
One finds a similar picture in what is called public employment. At August 1973 there were 1,160,000 civilian government employees in Australia of whom 790,000, or more than two-thirds - 70 per cent - were employed by the State governments or their authorities. The honourable member asked what were the implications of these facts in relation to the public expenditure cuts prepared by the Leader of the Opposition. I do not think that they have been prepared; I think they have been only proposed. The implication is that unless absolutely draconian cuts were to be made at the Australian Government level, expenditure reductions to be effective would need to extend to the State local government sectors, which sectors are of course responsible for a wide variety of essential public services and facilities, ranging from education to sewerage. 
I find the honourable gentleman's question to have little to do with the answer that I just gave but that no doubt is understandable. All that I did give was a factual analysis of the situation at all levels of government in Australia. When those who say that if there is a change of government they will, as a consequence, both reduce taxation and presumably cut down on what they call vast public expenditure, I think there is an obligation upon them to indicate specifics about the two. What particular taxes would be cut and for whom, and where would the vast cuts in public expenditure take place, particularly when they seem to be committed to increasing one level of Government expenditure, that is, the defence vote? It seems to me that this is highly inconsistent and I believe that those are the sorts of questions that the honourable gentleman should be answering in public. 
I might say,  Mr Speaker,  that the so-called riding instructions the Prime Minister gave me were the words the right honourable member added himself by suggesting that we will be in government in May. I had noted the point myself. 
Mir Snedden - Just let your imagination run riot and pretend. 
If anybody is used to his imagination running riot it is the right honourable gentleman who is a good exponent of it. As is known by the right honourable gentleman, the now Leader of the Opposition and still to be Leader of the Opposition, because I am sure the Australian people will see through him - if they do not do so his Party will after the 3 years that this Parliament would have existed - 'this matter has been referred for consideration by Professor Pollard and  Mr Melville.  We will give our decision at the appropriate time. 
 You are all very frisky today but you will not be in a month or so. 
 That remains to be seen. The honourable member for Gellibrand asked me a question about voluntary price and wage freezes or price and wage freezes generally. As is known, the Government sought to get control over prices and incomes at recent referendums because we believe that this sort of problem is best tackled nationally. The problem embraces the whole of Australia and is not confined to particular States. Those powers were refused because the Opposition did not want the Government to be given the powers. As to being able to do it voluntarily, the honourable gentleman knows he cannot do it voluntarily. Where I can I have suggested that the price makers ought to exercise a little more voluntary restraint on prices than they do. I say here unequivocally that if it were not for the Prices Justification Tribunal a lot of prices that have not risen would have risen. On the other hand, to call for a prices and wages freeze at the time when a case is before the Arbitration Commission in respect of wages indicates to me the class nature of the Opposition parties opposite. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make interim provision for the appropriation of moneys for the ordinary annua] services of the Government for the first 5 months of the financial year 1974-75. The total amount sought in this Bill is $1,804,284,000 for the following services: 

<graphic href="088131197404106_35_1.jpg"></graphic>

Estimates for salaries and payments in the nature of salary are based on current rates of pay and existing staff numbers. As with the 
Supply Act (No. 1) 1973-74 and the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1973-74, the Bill provides for a special appropriation clause to cover such increases in salaries and wages as may become payable after 1 April 1974. The amounts sought for administrative expenses and other services are basically five-twelfths of the estimates for similar services in 1973-74. An amount of $60m is proposed to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on ordinary annual services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to the Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. Does the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  wish to go straight on with the debate? 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks an interim provision of $5 13m for expenditure during the first 5 months of 1974-75 on capital works and services, payments to or for the States and other services. Amounts totalling $377,506,000 for capital works and services are to meet continuing commitments on buildings and works, plant and equipment. They include $45m for expenditure under the National Capital Development Commission Act, $42.5m for defence service homes and $100m for expenditure under the Post and Telegraph Act 
The Bill also seeks a total of $74,894,000 for payments to or for the States, based on the existing arrangements for those approved payments which are made from annual appropriations. An amount of $60m is proposed to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available for expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to the Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Snedden)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The overall effects of indirect taxation measures on the Consumer Price Index cannot be measured precisely. A major difficulty is that increased taxation has dampening effects on demand pressures but the ultimate impact of that on the Consumer Price Index is indirect and cannot be quantified. 
Calculations of the direct effects can, however, be made. In regard to the two major indirect taxation measures announced in the 1973-74 Budget, namely the increases in duty on motor spirit and on cigarettes and tobacco products, the direct effects on the CPI are estimated to have been about one quarter and one half of an index point respectively. In addition, the effects of the abolition of the exemption from sales tax of non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing not less than five per cent of Australian fruit juice on the CPI is estimated to have been about one quarter of an index point. Overall, the direct effects on the CPI of the indirect taxation measures taken in the Budget would have been of the order of one index point which, given the level of the index (144.6 in the December quarter), would have been less than one percentage point. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Government is at present reviewing general policy towards double taxation agreements. 
See (1). 
I understand that later this day a debate on a matter of urgency will take place. I will be better able then to define what I think is a credit squeeze. 
Sometimes, I think, there is a fairly loose use of terms and a tendency to talk jargon and to evade the basic issue. I hope, after question time to have 15 minutes during which I will expand my remarks. 
 Mr Acting Speaker,  I sometimes despair of the sort of questions that are asked from the other side of the House. We will have a full scale debate on this subject in 5 or 10 minutes time and I will say then what I want to say. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report by Professor A. H. Pollard and  Mr G.  L. Melville on my proposals for a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees, dated 5 June 1974. 
 I would like to begin by reading once again the terms of the matter of public importance, because I am sure that anyone who is not here but simply listening to the debate would be puzzled as to what we are talking about. The matter of public importance is in these terms: 
The serious social and economic consequences of the Government's credit squeeze policies. 
I do not know what the supporters of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, thought about the first 5 or 6 minutes of his speech on this matter. I must say that 1 found it a little difficult to follow. I would like to go back a little in history to something that the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the then Treasurer said in August 1971 when he was introducing his Budget for that year: 
In the prevailing and foreseen economic conditions it will be necessary to maintain a restrictive monetary policy and, as was the case last year, to encourage sales of Government securities. 
That was said in August 1971 and, of course, the consequences of that policy were so disastrous by October and November 1972 that when an election was held the Government was turned out of office. I do not know whether in those days the term 'credit squeeze' was applied to the process. It is easy enough to use terms that are emotive and unpopular; 'credit squeeze' is such a term. There does not seem to be any equivalent description for a situation of excessive ease of credit extension. After all, in some respects what is now called a squeeze is the reduction of the excessive ease of credit extension that began under the previous Government during 1972. The sorts of things that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition suggested that we- 
If the right honourable gentleman will listen I will tell him why we did certain things yesterday. Honourable members opposite are great at describing what ought to be done now but when they were given the time to deal with these situations when they were in office they were not very efficient in their performance. The now second but one Prime Minister wants to have himself described as the greatest Australian Treasurer since I do not quite know when. I do not think that immodesty is very well received by the Australian community. The Australian people turned him out when they had the opportunity. 
There never has been a time in Australia's economic history when everybody who wanted a loan from a trading bank, a savings bank, a finance company, a merchant bank or a building society could get it. There never has been a time when everybody could get all that he wanted, and certainly the position in 1974 is no different from what it has been in the past. I hope that when I introduce either later this week or next week a Bill dealing with other financial institutions it will receive ready passage through this House. At the moment the only area in which the Government can operate to influence interest rates directly is in the banking area. What was done yesterday or the day before was to allow the savings banks and the trading banks to be able to pay the same competitive rates of interest as were available in the areas that we cannot control. After all, although certain institutions give themselves titles such as building societies, merchant banks, trading banks or savings banks, all of them are financial institutions. They are dealers in credit. They are receivers of deposits, and they can get those deposits only if people are satisfied with the rate of interest that they will get when they make their deposit in one place rather than another. In turn the institutions lend the money they get at a somewhat higher rate of interest than the rate at which they borrow. They could not survive otherwise. 
 I do not hear too much brilliance from that corner of the chamber in which the honourable gentleman sits; I never have and I do not expect to in the future. 
I think at times that the honourable member is a little stupid, and there is nothing I can do about that in the space of 10 minutes. The problem in relation to housing at the moment- 
Exactly. The honourable gentleman has given a bright answer. We cannot get houses. Why can we not get houses? The answer is that we are using to the maximum the skilled labour and the materials- 
If it is not true, show that it is not true. There is no large scale unemployment in the building industry. There is no abundance or over-supply of materials in the building industry. Despite the high interest rates that are payable on housing loans, more people are seeking houses than there is the physical capacity to build the houses they require. I do not think anybody can gainsay that as a general proposition. It may be that those people who want to build houses have to pay a higher price for the land, a higher price to build and a higher rate of interest than they might like to, but I still believe that the banking system - the savings banks and the trading banks - is the most reputable lending source still in the community. I think that in past years the banks were never too enterprising and were anything but competitive. At least they can now be competitive in these areas if they so wish. All that has been done is that the maximum rate at which they can borrow has been increased but, if they wish, they can borrow at a rate lower than the maximum rate. At least they are now able to attract deposits which they were not able to attract previously. 
Much has been made of the fact that we have not altered the minimum rate of interest payable on deposits in the savings banks - the minimum rate is 3J per cent - and I want to explain why. It would cost the savings banks $80m if there were a flat overall increase of 1 per cent in the interest rate payable. The reality of the situation in the savings banks is that some people do not put money into banks to earn high interest rates. They deposit in savings banks money which they do not want. They do not want to leave it under the bed where, if moth and rust do not corrupt, the thief might look. They put it into a bank for safe deposit, and they might have transactions with the bank as often as weekly. 
On average, the small account entails between 15 and 30 transactions a year. There is no charge whatever for keeping the account; the cost is borne by the lending of those deposits and other deposits at higher rates. If anybody has more than SI 00 and does not want to use it for 3 months, he can obtain anything from 7 per cent to 9 per cent on that money if he wishes. What is not realised by honourable members opposite is that while they may have great concern about borrowers, the potential lender is becoming just as concerned about the rate of interest as is the borrower. If honourable members opposite want to have a moratorium on all interest rates and drop them by, let us say, 5 per cent, why do they not get up and say so? They would make a mess of certain institutional arrangements if they did, as I think at least the former Treasurer, the right honourable member for Lowe, would know. How many who want low borrowing rates arc the holders of insurance policies? They want to obtain high interest rates. The two things are not easily reconcileable. What astonishes me is that although at times honourable members opposite talk about creeping socialism or something of the kind, I find I must become the defender of capitalism and the market forces and the banking system and I am sorry to say that I do not get very many thanks from those sectors. Some day they may erect a statue to me for having saved the trading banks and for having prodded the trading banks from inertia into energy and into meeting the problems of the new age. I as much as anybody else would prefer to have low interest rates rather than high interest rates and I would like to have a governmental system under which the only things I had to do were the nice things. One does not always get many thanks for the nice things but one certainly receives more than due opprobrium for the things that other people do not think are nice. I suggest candidly that that is the situation here at the moment. It is nice to apply the term 'credit squeeze' - a nasty term which immediately gets allies to one's side but which does not do much to get down to the realities of the situation. I think everybody, belatedly, is suggesting that inflation is a serious problem. I was not the one who first uttered in this House - in fact, it came from the other side - the remark that if the interest rate is not at least something like the inflation rate, it is a negative rate. If we like we can haggle as to whether the rate is 10 per cent minus or 10 per cent plus. I think we would all like it to be 10 per cent minus rather than 10 per cent plus but I am not too sure whether those who talk about psychology, help the situation by bumping up the inflation rate higher than it is likely to be. The same thing applies in regard to employment. We do not have large scale unemployment in Australia at the moment. One can hazard a guess if one wants to that in 6 months the rate of unemployment will be higher than it is now. 
It is not my view. Basically, my view of the Australian economy is that it is short of skills in the labour force and of materials. What we ought to be doing is gearing ourselves sensibly to increase the supplies of skilled labour, but we cannot do that quickly. One thing that this credit squeeze has done- 
Well, if any gratification can be gained by the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  that our problems are easy because I say that getting over excessive liquidity is a squeeze rather than a recovery, fair enough, I will give him that. 

I move: 
That the Bill' be now read a second time. 
By this Bill, and 2 others that I shall shortly introduce, it is proposed to impose a health insurance levy of 1.35 per cent of the taxable incomes - as determined for income tax purposes - of people residing in Australia. The Bills complement other measures designed to implement the Government's universal health insurance scheme. Other basic features of the scheme are-, of course, contained in legislation that has been before the Parliament on previous occasions. The levy proposed in the present Bills was discussed in the White Paper on the health insurance program published in November 1973, which was preceded by the report of the Health Insurance Planning Committee. 
Introduction of the levy is timed to coincide with the coming into operation of the main health insurance legislation. At this stage we wolud hope to have that legislation effective as from 1 July 1975. However, in the event of some unforeseen administrative complexities which may require a slightly later introductory date, the Bills provide for the levy to be payable on taxable income of the 1975-76 income year, but also make provision for the annual rate to be reduced should the scheme not become operative until a little later during that year. In that event, it is intended that the rate applied to 1975-76 taxable incomes will be a proportionate part of the annual rate of 1.35 per cent, determined on a time basis. The levy of 1.35 per cent of taxable income will not apply of all taxpayers. At the upper end of the income scale, and on the assumption that the levy will apply for the whole of 1975-76, the maximum amount of levy payable by anyone will be $150. If the commencement date for the levy were not 1 July 1975 but, say, 1 October 1975, then the maximum amount payable for that year would be SI 12.50 - that is, three-quarters of the sum. For low-income taxpayers there are provisions to the effect that a person whose taxable income is less than the minimum subject to income tax - now $1,041 - is not to be liable for the levy. 
There are also relieving provisions in respect of people maintaining dependants. These will apply to anyone who is entitled for a particular year of income to concessional deductions for maintenance of dependants of an amount of $100 or more. In these cases the levy will not be payable where a person's taxable income is not more than an amount related to the level of the minimum wage and calculated by application of the formula devised by the planning committee and explained in its report at pages 44 to 46. If the levy were to be imposed for 1974-75, the threshold for its imposition would in these cases be $2,575 and the legislation specifies this amount as the level below which the levy will not be payable by people with dependants. Provision is also made, however, for the amount to he increased above $2,575 in the light of changes in wage levels that occur before 1 July 1975. Another relieving provision related to income levels of particular classes of people concerns aged people. An aged person exempt from income tax by reason of the special transitiona'l tax rebate will also be exempt from health levy. The actual levy-free point for 1975-76 will depend on the amount of the age rebate allowed for income tax purposes in that year. The general principle is, however, that whatever the level of the income tax rebate in 1975-76, an aged person who is exempt from income tax on account of it will also be exempt from health levy. 
Provision is also being made to give relief from the levy to certain classes of repatriation beneficiaries. The broad principle is that a repatriation beneficiary who is entitled under repatriation arrangements to full medical treatment for himself for all medical conditions, whether or not war-caused, but who has no dependants, will be completely free from payment of levy. If the beneficiary is entitled to full cover for himself, but has a wife or children, he will be entitled to relief from one-half of the levy that would otherwise be payable. The question as to whether a case for relief may be made for other classes of people in situations broadly corresponding with those of repatriation beneficiaries is 'being examined. We are considering to what extent, if any, relief ought to go beyond the ranks of repatriation beneficiaries, and the legislation contains a provision authorising the making of regulations to confer such relief as it may be found appropriate to give. In this context we are giving special attention to pensioners who have an entitlement to free medical attention under the pensioner medical scheme and members of the armed forces. 
A fundamental objective of the legislation is to integrate collection of the levy with the collection of income tax. This has distinct administrative advantages which I am sure I need not labour. Suffice it to say that it is the most economical and sensible course to follow. It does, however, require a number of provisions of a technical kind. Much of what is in the Bills is concerned with these technicalities and explanations of the various provisions are contained in the explanatory memorandum I have arranged for honourable members to receive. I should mention, however, that while the levy will be administered and collected under the income tax system and payasyouearn deductions from salaries and wages will be increased in 1975-76 to take account of it, provisions in the legislation require a separate identification of the amount of a taxpayer's liability that represents health insurance levy. Thus, for example, the amount payable as the levy will be shown separately on pay-slips, group certificates and taxation notices of assessment. 
No. I am not suggesting any such thing. I do not know what the honourable member calls the present provision if it is not a tax, yet he suggests that this is. 
The honourable member has to do a little rethinking too. I will not get caught in a semantic battle on this question. 
The Opposition has a few weeks in which to look at this matter. The various provisions of the Bill, including the technical parts that provide for a levy to be payable on certain income derived by trustees and for people living in the external territories to be exempt, are, as I have already indicated, explained in a memorandum that is being made available to honourable members. In these circumstances, I think I need say no more at this stage about particular features of the Bills. 
I commend this Bill, the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill, to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In introducing the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill 1974 I outlined basic features of the proposed health insurance levy. These are contained partly in that Bill and partly in this Bill, the Health Insurance Levy Bill 1974. This Bill provides for the rate of levy - basically 1.35 per cent of taxable income. It also contains rules for fixing the maximum amount of levy payable and the income points below which some groups of people will not be called on to pay any amount of levy. Explanations of each clause of the Bills are contained in the explanatory memorandum and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second lime. 
In speaking to the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill 1974 I mentioned that the levy is to be imposed on people residing in Australia and that its collection is to be integrated with the collection of income tax. Australia's double taxation agreements provide, among other things, that Australians who receive income from overseas that is included in their taxable income are to be entitled to a credit for foreign tax on the income. This bill will ensure that the arrangements for relief of double taxation apply to both income tax and health insurance levy. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
I did receive a letter. In fact, I receive a lot of letters from my colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I have replied to this particular letter in equally friendly fashion. I began it: 'Dear Clyde'. I did not reply at the same length as the letter I had received. I indicated that some of the matters that he had raised 1 found of interest and that they would be considered at the proper time and on the basis of full Cabinet discussion. For the information of the Leader of the Opposition I might say that I receive quite a number of similar letters from other Ministers. 
No. They offer brighter suggestions than I get from the other side of the House. I am not responsible for the contents of the letter having been divulged somewhere else and I have no intention of suggesting that it be tabled. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to take up a special increase of $US41.14m in its subscription to the capital stock of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development - or, as it is more commonly called, the IBRD. However, only 10 per cent of this amount will be payable. The balance will remain at call. Most honourable members will recall that this Bill was debated and read a third time in this House in March of this year. It did not, however, get beyond the second reading stage in the Senate before Parliament was dissolved prior to the recent elections. It is therefore necessary to re-introduce the Bill in this House, where I hope it will attract the same degree of support from the Opposition as it did previously. 
As most honourable members will be aware, the main function of the IBRD and its two affiliated institutions the International Finance Corporation and the International Development Association is to promote faster rates of economic growth and development in their poorer member countries. This the IBRD does by extending loans on conventional terms to credit-worthy member countries to help finance soundly conceived and economically viable infrastructure projects in such fields as agriculture, irrigation, rail transportation, highways, port development, telecommunications and electric power generation. 
More recently, increasing emphasis has been placed - especially by IDA but also by the IBRD to a limited extent - on projects with greater social implications and more direct benefits for the masses or needy people in developing countries, in such fields as education, urban renewal, population control, public health and sewerage, and improved agricultural credit and extension services for small farmers. The IBRD is by far the largest and most influential development finance institution in the world today. During the year ended 30 June 1973, it approved 73 loans to 42 countries totalling $US2,051m. This brought the total for all loans approved by the IBRD since it commenced operations nearly 30 years ago to a massive $US20,335m. Much of this lending has gone to developing countries of interest to Australia in the Asian and Pacific regions, including Papua New Guinea. 
The IBRD obtains the bulk of the. funds it lends from borrowings on world capital markets, which it can arrange on relatively favourable terms - the benefits of which are then pased on to member countries - because of the IBRD's own high financial standards and the backing it has in the form of uncalled capital subscriptions totalling more than $US25 billion at the present time from over 120 member countries, including all of the major industrial countries in the western world. 
However, another important source of funds available to the IBRD for use in its lending operations is the paid-in portions of members' capital subscriptions. These currently total more than $US2.5 billion. Australia joined the IBRD soon after it opened its doors for business in 1947 and has subscribed the equivalent of nearly $US640m to its capital stock, of which 10 per cent, or approximately $US64m - in terms of current 
United States dollars - has actually been paid in. As indicated previously, the balance remains at call as security for the IBRD's own borrowing operations on world capital markets. 
In 1970 Australia, along with 74 other member countries, was granted a special increase in its quota in the International Monetary Fund - IMF - following the regular quinquennial review of Fund quotas in that year. As a consequence, all of these countries, including Australia, became entitled in the same year to take up special increases in their subscriptions to the capital stock of the IBRD so as to maintain the previous long-standing relativities between IMF quotas and IBRD subscriptions. The special increases authorised for individual countries are shown in the table attached to the copy of my speech that will be circulated to honourable members. I ask for leave to incorporate that table in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has  4  main purposes, each of them quite different. One is to close off avenues for avoidance of withholding tax on interest on foreign loans. Another is concerned with the liability to tax of allowances and benefits received by members of the Defence Force under the new pay code. The third is related to deductions for contributions for retirement benefits by members of this Parliament and servicemen. The final purpose is to complete, in 2 stages, the phasing-in of arrangements for the collection of company tax by quarterly payments. With the exception of provisions concerned with collection of company tax, the Bill is in all substantial respects identical with an Income Tax Assessment Bill, introduced last April, that lapsed when the Parliament was dissolved. 
I announced on 2 July 1973 that the Government had decided to introduce amendments to the Income Tax law to correct an apparent deficiency in the interest withholding tax provisions. The broad effect of these provisions is to impose a moderate withholding tax of 10 per cent on interest paid to overseas lenders by Australian residents or by nonresidents who use overseas borrowings in an Australian business. There are some exemptions from the tax. One relevant to this Bill is for interest on money borrowed for use in a business that is Australian-owned and controlled to an extent specified in the law. Another exemption relevant to the Bill frees from withholding tax interest on foreign loans that are used overseas by Australian enterprises in conducting a business through a foreign branch. Some financial institutions with foreign branches have sought to use this latter provision to obtain exemption from withholding tax in respect of loans raised through the branches for use by any Australian clients at all, that is not only those that are Australianowned and controlled to the required extent. Not only could the loss of revenue from leaving the law as it stands be significant, that course could also lead to a complete frustration of the fundamental policy of the withholding tax that interest paid from Australia by firms that are not sufficiently Australianowned is to bear Australian tax. The Government therefore considers that the changes provided in this Bill must be made. 
The primary effect of the Bill is that withholding tax will be payable on interest paid from Australia to a foreign branch of an Australian institution where the institution concerned chooses to arrange its foreign borrowing transactions in such a way that the interest it receives from on-lending the borrowed funds in Australia is derived as income of a foreign branch. The Bill will make the interest subject to withholding tax in these circumstances only where it would have been subject to the tax if it had been received by a non-resident. As I announced on 2 July 1973, the amendments will apply to interest payments made after that day. 
Complementary amendments of a technical kind are proposed to clarify the circumstances in which interest paid to non-residents can be said to be incurred in carrying on an overseas business, and thus not subject to withholding tax. As explained more fully in the explanatory memorandum being circulated to honourable members, a related series of technical amendments is also proposed to forestall tax avoidance in 2 other areas of the law which are modelled on the interest withholding tax provisions. One of these relates to the source of royalties paid to non-residents, and the other to the source - for the purpose of provisions designed to close down Norfolk Island as a tax haven - of both interest and royalties. 
I should mention that none of the withholding tax amendments will affect the exemption for interest on ordinary savings bank or fixed deposit accounts kept by non-residents at overseas branches of Australian banks. The amendments relating to defence force allowances are in the main the result of changes in the Service pay structure based on recommendations in the final report of the committee of inquiry into Services' pay, known as the Woodward Committee. 
One change of particular significance from the tax standpoint is the withdrawal of the general entitlement of members of the defence force to receive free rations and quarters when living in Service establishments, or substituted benefits in the form of cash allowances when living elsewhere. This development, together with a proposal to provide a specific exemption for the value of rations and quarters that are still provided free of charge in a limited range of circumstances, has made unnecessary a provision that fixes the taxable value of defence force allowances in the food and shelter category at $2 a week. Accordingly, the Bill proposes that this provision be repealed. 
Another provision of the income tax law governing the exemption of dependants' allowances and exchange allowances of defence force members is to be amended. One purpose of this is to ensure that, in the limited range of circumstances in which board and quarters are still available free of charge, their value will be exempt from tax. Another purpose is to facilitate the provision, or continuation, of exemptions for allowances paid in reimbursement of certain abnormal expenses incurred by defence force personnel in complying with duty requirements. The Woodward Committee contemplated that these allowances would not bear tax. 
The amendments proposed will permit the allowances that are to be paid free of tax to be prescribed by regulations made under the income tax law. In the same way, it is proposed to prescribe, pursuant to this amendment, that a re-engagement bounty payable to a member of the defence force is to be exempt from tax. The Bill will also remove references in the exempting provisions to service exchange allowances. These allowances have long since ceased to be paid. None of the amendments will affect the tax treatment of allowances payable in respect of service before the date of commencement of the new pay code. 
The provision of the law that authorises the allowance of income tax deductions for contributions to superannuation funds needs to be amended because, under recent legislative changes, contributions for retirement benefits by members of this Parliament and by members of the defence force are paid directly into Consolidated Revenue. The amendment proposed by the Bill will ensure that tax deductions for these contributions continue to be available, notwithstanding that they are not paid into separate superannuation funds. 
The last matter dealt with in the Bill is the scheme for the collection of company tax by quarterly instalments. As announced in my 1973-74 Budget Speech, the Government proposes that the scheme will be in full operation by 1975-76. When it is in full operation there will be 3 quarterly instalments payable in a financial year before the due date for payment of the assessment of company tax on income of the preceding year. The balance of the assessed tax - in effect, the fourth instalment - will be payable on the due date of the assessment, the other instalments being credited against the amount assessed. 
As a first step in implementing this scheme, most companies were required to pay an instalment of tax in January 1974 for later crediting in the 1973-74 financial year against tax due on 1972-73 income. This Bill amends the provisions covering this first stage of the scheme so as to provide machinery for implementing the later 2 stages. The Bill will provide for the collection of 2 instalments of company tax during the current financial year, 1974-75, and 3 instalments during each subsequent year. Each instalment will be calculated so that it approximates as closely as possible one-quarter of the full tax liability against which it is to be credited. 
Companies will receive a notice specifying the amount of instalment payable and the due date for its payment. The due date will be at least 30 days after the date of service of the notice. The Commissioner of Taxation will not be sending notices this year where the amount of an instalment would be less than $250. As a general rule, tax on the 1973-74 income of a company that for this reason remains outside the instalment scheme will be payable in full on a date falling somewhere between 14 February and 30 June 1975. 
The earliest due dates for payment of instalments in 1974-75 will be 15 November 1974 for the first instalment and 15 February 1975 for the second. As already explained, the remainder of the tax to be collected on 1973- 74 income will be payable on the due date for payment of the tax assessed as shown on the notice of assessment. Where a company has been called upon to pay at least one instalment, this date will not, in normal circumstances, be earlier than 30 April 1975. 
A similar pattern of collection will be followed in 1975-76 and subsequent years except that an additional instalment of tax will be payable. This will be due for payment by a date not earlier than 15 August in the relevant year. Company tax collections will then be spread fairly evenly over all 4 quarters of each financial year thus reducing the size of the seasonal swings in tax payments. The strains on final-quarter cash resources of companies should be much less severe than they have been during the years in which the collections were concentrated within one quarter. 
More detailed explanations of the proposed amendments are set out in an explanatory memorandum circulated in my name for the information of honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which is complementary to the Income Tax Assessment Bill 1974, is of purely technical import. It will repeal existing legislation that declares the rates of withholding tax on dividends and interest paid to nonresidents, and will re-declare those rates. The Bill is necessary only because the existing legislation has a title consistent with the present scope of the withholding tax as a levy exclusively on income of non-residents. As I have explained, the Bill I have just introduced has the effect that, under the sort of arrangement I described in my earlier speech, interest withholding tax can be payable on interest paid to a resident. This Bill will ensure that the rates legislation is expressed in a manner consistent with that position. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
 The terms of the matter of public importance are as follows: 
The failure of the Government to implement policies which will encourage home ownership and ensure that the Australian community is adequately housed and the home building industry preserved. 
If I may, I want to quote the figure;; relating to dwelling completions in Australia for the complete calendar year 1970 to 1973, which was the first complete year of the Labor Government. In 1970, 161,300 housing units were completed; in 1971, 160,300; in 1972, 160,100; and in 1973, 163,200. So the greatest number of completions in any year in Australia's building history was in 1973. 1 want also to quote another set of. figures which seem to me to indicate basically what the problem is. The latest employment figures by industry in Australia show that there is a total of 4,851,000 people employed in industry. The total number employed in 1969 was 4,174,000. 
In other words, there has been an increase in the total number of people employed in industry from June 1968 to April 1974 of more than 700,000 people. If one looks at the figures for the building and construction field, one sees that it has remained almost stagnant in the period from 1968 to the present time. In fact, if it had not been for the entry of females into the building industry it is likely that the number of people employed in that industry would have declined. 
I want to emphasise 2 points. My first point is that more houses than ever before are being built, and they are being built with what is virtually a static labour force. The fact that the number of houses completed by the industry has risen from 160,000 or 161,000 to 163,000 in 1973 indicates that the housing section of the building industry has worked almost to its total capacity. While the Opposition might harangue us about the rates of interest that people are paying, the fact is that despite those rates of interest there is still more activity in the housing industry in Australia than ever before. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, has not produced a single fact to gainsay that. He has brought before this House a matter of public importance which has political motives. He harangues us about our inability to implement policies which encourage home ownership. I simply say that there is as much home ownership now as there ever has been in Australia. As in so many other areas of the economy, the real problem basically is a shortage of skilled labour and a shortage of materials. Pumping more money into the industry does not solve the problem at all. I refer to the absurd situation which arose 2 years ago when applications for new commencements reached 250,000, which was a 50 per cent higher demand than was within the capacity of the industry to satisfy. What sense is there in giving people finance for houses when they cannot have them built? What happened several years ago was that it was easier to get finance than it was for the industry, because of either labour shortages or material shortages, to build the houses. 
Honourable members opposite make great play of the phrase 'credit squeeze'. They seem to have attained some gratification by saying that I said that I do not believe there is a credit squeeze. Candidly, I do not think that is a fair description of what I said. What I have tried to say is that during the last year of the term of office of the previous Government there was an excessive ease of liquidity. Now an endeavour is being made to bring liquidity down to a level that is more commensurate with the physical capacity of the economy. If honourable members opposite choose to call that a squeeze, they are welcome to the term, as far as I am concerned. All I suggest to honourable members opposite is that it is about time they looked behind some of these figures and looked at the physical problems of the Australian economy. I believe that on the whole what still faces the Australian economy is an excess of demand in relation to available supplies. I have had no bright suggestions from the other side about the shortage of physical supplies or even how to encourage restraint on the part of those who want to lend money. After all, the rate at which people borrow is conditioned by the rate at which other people lend. 
As I said in this House the other day, for the first time I heard enunciated in this House from the other side the curious doctrine that what happens with the continuance of inflation is that if the interest rate is less than the rate of inflation, the interest rate in fact is negative. I think that is a rather glib description of the situation. It is like that other description that inflation is the flight from money into goods. It is nice if people have something to fly with and somewhere sensible to fly but many people in the community do not have money in those sorts of quantities. I believe that the social task is better to allocate those scarce resources among different potential lenders. 
One of the curious things which I must say disturbed me somewhat when I looked at it was that in 1973, even though more houses were built than ever before, the actual number built of what are called public housesnot the sort of public houses that some of us frequent, but housing commission houses - declined by over 3,000. My colleague, the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  was allocated $21 8m in the 1973-74 Budget to help to remedy the situation, but he was not able to spend it all because in New South Wales and Victoria the State Housing Commissions could not obtain tenders. We have provided him with more money this year. We have increased the amount to $23 5m and have said that he could also spend the $18m which he did not have before, making a total of about $250m or an increase of 23 per cent over the previous year. If the Minister for Housing and Construction runs out of money this year the Government is prepared to give him more. I think that honourable members opposite who complain about individual groups not being able to get houses should look at who do and who do not purchase houses. I am not too sure that at today's rates of interest it is not sometimes easy to purchase a second home or to build extensions on a home which would be more than satisfactory to the occupants. If honourable members went around Canberra they would see that nearly every place has 2 bathrooms and 2 internal toilets, while other people cannot get a house at all. I am not too sure whether by using the same resources we might not be able to build around Australia 50,000 more houses by demanding more austere housing. Nowadays it seems that young people want to move into the same sort of houses that their fathers provided for them before they left to get married. Most of our parents took some time to get the houses in which they finally lived. I suggest that it is easy to carp at each other and to say this and that, but I repeat that physically more houses are being built in Australia, despite the higher interest rates, virtually a static labour supply and a shortage of materials. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The Minister's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
This Bill is identical to that which I introduced into the House on 3 April 1974 but which lapsed on the dissolution of Parliament on 11 April 1974. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide the basis for the examination and, as necessary, regulation of activities in the non-bank financial sector in the interests of effective management of the economy for the greatest advantage of the people of Australia. 
There have been extensive prior consultations with groups which will be affected by the legislation, and this Bill incorporates a significant number of proposals made in the course of those consultations. 
As honourable members are aware, nonbank financial institutions have grown rapidly over recent years. However, information available on the activities of the institutions has been seriously inadequate or, in some cases, completely lacking. An important purpose of the legislation will be to provide a means of obtaining additional basic information about the institutions covered in the Bill. This information will be of sufficient detail and sufficiently up to date as to enable the Government to assess for economic management purposes the need to regulate, in a variety of ways, the operations of the corporations concerned. It will also enable the publication of much more information than hitherto about the activities of the institutions. 
The other main purpose of the legislation is to give the Government adequate control powers over non-bank financial institutions, in line with those that presently exist with regard to banks, thereby supplementing, as necessary, existing monetary policy weapons so as to assist in the effective overall management of the economy. The proposed control powers relate to asset ratios, directions regarding volume and direction of lending, and interest rates. The availability of such control powers over the non-bank financial sector is, I consider, an essential requirement for a Government charged with responsibilities for economic management. 
I want to emphasise, however, that the Government is fully aware of the difficulties of implementing direct 'controls over this sector, particularly controls that would be completely new. We are also well aware of the need to ensure that, when any controls are imposed, they do not undermine confidence in the institutions concerned or unduly disrupt their legitimate activities. 
The first objective of the Government, once the Bill is passed, will be to obtain the detailed information on which controls must necessarily be based. It is for this reason that the Bill itself does not attempt to specify the controls that will in fact be applied. It rather empowers the Government to apply specific controls, within the range provided for in the Bill, by way of the making of subsequent regulations. 
I should also mention that the Government does not regard direct controls over non-bank financial institutions as a substitute for, as distinct from supporting, other monetary policy actions or for responsible fiscal policies. However, in appropriate circumstances, such direct controls can help in meeting particular objectives. 
The legislation is designed to cover those corporations, other than banks, which engage in the borrowing and lending of money in a major way. These are the corporations whose activities are of concern from the viewpoint of monetary policy and which are not currently subject to direct control. Their importance in financial markets - both as borrowers and lenders - gives them significant potential to undertake activities sometimes inimical to effective economic management. 
The legislation will thus gather within its provisions corporations which may be generally described as finance companies, permanent building societies, merchant banks and money market groups, including the authorised dealers in the short term money market, pastoral finance companies and credit unions. Other corporations whose borrowing and lending activities are important, for example, corporate retailers which, within their own operations, have outstanding finance provided totalling $5m or more, will also be covered. The legislation has in fact been drafted with the aim of covering both existing major borrowing and lending institutions and any such new institutions that may spring up in the future. 
There is, of course, a diverse range of other corporations operating in the financial sector, including life and general insurance companies, pension funds, terminating building societies, friendly and health societies, unit trusts, investment and trustee companies. However, the activities of these corporations either have limited implications for monetary policy or they are subject to other legislation of the Australia Parliament. Financial institutions of the kind I have indicated are therefore excluded from the provisions of the Bill now before the House. 
In considering the legislation it also needs to be borne in mind that most non-bank financial institutions are already subject to supervision under State or Territory laws which deal primarily with the rights of borrowers and lenders and the financial stability of companies. It is not the intention of the present Bill to exclude or limit the operations of such laws and I anticipate that they will, in the normal course of events, operate concurrently with the present legislation. 
Corporations of the type covered by the legislation will be required to register and to provide regular information about their activities if their total assets exceed 551m or, in the case of retailers, if outstanding finance provided exceeds $5m. However, it is not envisaged that any controls which the Government may decide to impose would necessarily apply to all institutions. A sufficient coverage - in most cases about 90 per cent - of the assets of various groups would be obtained if any controls that were applied to financial institutions were limited only to those with total assets in excess of $5m. The application of controls in this way would also reduce the administrative burdens and, more importantly, allow more flexibility. There is provision for the amounts of Sim and $5m in the legislation to be varied by regulation if necessary. 
In proposing that the registration and control provisions of the legislation should apply only to institutions that are above stipulated sizes, the Government has very much in mind that, in contrast to the small number of banks, there are a large number of non-bank financial institutions. It is estimated that there are operating in Australia about 1,000 finance companies, 200 permanent building societies, 750 credit unions, and between 50 and 80 corporations operating generally in the merchant banking area. Individual institutions within these groups can also show a marked diversity in the nature of their borrowings and their lending business. 
The Government has not been able to accept representations that certain groups of financial corporations should be exempted from the Bill because they are in a special position or because they are largely mutual, non-profit making institutions. The activities of all the financial corporations covered by the Bill are currently or potentially important for economic conditions and therefore for economic policy. The exclusion of any group would materially weaken the proposed legislation and could make the achievement of the broad objectives of the legislation substantially more difficult to achieve. The fact that a group of institutions is non-profit making, or that they are operating in an area of social importance, does not reduce the capacity of those institutions in certain circumstances to undertake activities that could be inimical to effective economic management and thereby involve both economic and social costs to the community. 
As I have circulated to honourable members an explanatory memorandum on the various clauses of the Bill, I do not propose to outline them in detail here. However, I would draw honourable members' attention to certain key clauses in the Bill. Clause 8 (1) determines the type of corporations that will be covered in the legislation, subject to clause 8 (2) which  provides certain specific exemptions as well as a general exemption for those corporations whose assets do not exceed $lm. 
Clause 10 provides for the Treasurer to draw up and publish a list of registered corporations and for such a list to divide corporations into various categories. This provision will enable any controls that may be imposed to -be applied in ways which will take account of the major differences in the structure and activities of the various categories of institutions that will be covered by the legislation. It will be apparent that any attempt to impose uniform controls across the whole range of institutions covered by the legislation would be both impracticable and inequitable. 
Part IV of the Bill contains a description of the powers that are sought for control of the business activities of financial corporations. As I have already indicated, these powers will be implemented, when necessary, by way of regulations. Clause 13 provides that such regulations may require a corporation to maintain in specified assets such percentage of its assets or liabilities as is determined from time to time by the Reserve Bank. Such determinations are, as are determinations made under other clauses, to be subject to the approval of the Treasurer. I mention that it is not the Government's intention to introduce reserve deposit requirements of the type placed on banks. The specification of statutory reserve deposits in the case of the banks is, of course, related to their special position. 
Clause 14 provides that regulations may require a corporation to comply with directives with respect to the corporation's general lending policy, or its policy in relation to specific types of lending. Clause 15 provides that regulations may, specify the maximum interest rates payable by a corporation on its borrowings or chargeable by it on its lending, including the maximum rates on specific types of lending. 
There is provision for the prescription of a minimum period of not less than 30 days for complying with any asset ratio determination fixing an initial or increased ratio. However, it would not, of course, be desirable to stipulate any such minimum period for an interest rate or lending policy determination. 
Provision has been made in clause 18 for the Treasurer, after consulting the Reserve Bank, to exempt a corporation from the application of any control determination if he considers that the public interest and the existence of special circumstances justify his so doing. An exemption under this clause may be subject to conditions and will be published in the Gazette not later than 90 days after the instrument of exemption is signed by the Treasurer. It is intended that this provision would only be used where unforeseen difficulties arise in the application of a determination but it provides an additional safeguard for corporations that may become subject to controls. 
Since it is clear that several organisations representing finance groups place great store on provisions allowing for consultation, provision has been made in clause 30 for the Treasurer to appoint a committee or committees of persons to advise him on matters to be included in regulations to be made under the legislation and on the operation of the legislation. 
In addition, clause 31 provides for the Reserve Bank to consult with associations or other bodies representing registered corporations to keep itself informed of their views in relation to the exercise by the Bank of its powers under the legislation and of trends in activities of their members. 
The Government attaches considerable importance to voluntary co-operation and consultation in economic management, and considers that the provisions for consultation with representatives of the non-bank finance sector will assist in obtaining voluntary co-operation from the institutions concerned. Such consultations will also provide a means by which representatives of the various industry groups will be able to express their views on proposed regulations and on how the legislation is operating generally. 
I emphasise here that the Government proposes to consult appropriate advisory committees before making regulations to give effect to the control powers. In addition there will, of course, be the normal opportunity for Parliament to review regulations made under the legislation. I well understand the concern that has been expressed about the use which could be made of the wide powers proposed to be taken in the Bill but I suggest that it is most important to appreciate that the exercise of such powers will only be given effect by bringing down regulations in the manner described. Such regulations will, of course, impose limits on the extent to which the control powers will be subject to administrative discretion. 
In conclusion, I should again emphasise that the Government is fully aware of the difficulties involved in implementing direct controls over the activities of the non-bank financial sector and of the need to ensure that any controls imposed do not undermine confidence in the institutions concerned or unduly disrupt their legitimate activities. This is reflected, among other things, in the consultations that have already taken place with finance groups and the provision in the Bill to formalise such consultations in the future with regard to the formulation of regulations and on the operation of the proposed legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for a contribution by Australia of $A18.15m, or the equivalent of $US27m, to the Asian Development Fund recently established within the Asian Development Bank. As most honourable members will be aware, the Asian Development Bank - or the ADB as it is colloquially called - is a regional development finance institution which was established in 1966, with its headquarters in Manila, for the purpose of lending funds, promoting investment and providing technical assistance to developing member countries with a view to generally fostering economic growth and co-operation in the Asian and Pacific regions. 
Projects financed so far by the ADB cover all the major sectors of economic development. Thus, loans have been made to assist the development of infrastructure facilities in the electric power, transport and communications sectors as well as for agriculture, water supply and education projects. During 1973 the ADB financed 39 projects in 16 member countries with 54 loans totalling more than $US420m. Total lending by the ADB since it commenced operations about 8 years ago passed the SUS1 billion mark in 1973. The lending activities of the ADB are divided into 2 major categories - 'ordinary operations* comprising loans made at near commercial rates of interest and 'special operations' comprising loans made on concessional or 'soft' terms to the Bank's poorer developing member countries. The Asian Development Fund is designed to serve as the primary source of finance for future concessional lending operations by the ADB. In the past such concessional loans were financed almost entirely from a so-called Multi-purpose Special Fund which was set up a few years ago and has utilised resources set aside for this purpose from the paid-in capital of the ADB as well as voluntary contributions which individual donor countries have made to the ADB on an ad-hoc basis for this purpose. 
The previous situation was not satisfactory because the ADB was unable to plan its future scale of operations with any degree of certainty that funds would continue to be available. In fact, contributions had dwindled to the extent that, in the absence of early steps to replenish Special Fund resources, concessional lending by the ADB seemed likely to grind to a halt. The current proposals involve the mobilisation of an initial amount of $US525m to be provided by contributions from developed member countries of the ADB. Specific amounts have been proposed for each developed member country, Australia's share being $US27m, or roughly 5 per cent of the total. These amounts are to be paid in the national currency of each member country up to the equivalent of the amounts in United States dollars specified in the attached table, which I ask leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard. 
The Bill before the House dealing with other financial institutions covers specific areas such as finance companies, building companies, merchant banks and credit unions. It excludes certain areas because they are already covered by other legislation. The Australian Parliament has full powers now to handle matters relating to life assurance companies. It does not need to encompass them within the Act. I think my colleague, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, has been concerned for a considerable time, as I have, about the excessive development of city blocks and about scarce resources being used in that area to the detriment of other areas. One of the effects of the financial measures taken by this Government has been to bring about a substantial decline in the number of commencements of city development projects. As I indicated yesterday during the debate on a matter of public importance, we are concerned that welfare housing is not receiving the attention that it should receive and we are hopeful this year that we will be able also to remedy that situation. 
I am afraid I regard myself as a vicitim of circumstances and the machinations of the capitalist system. 
At the moment an influx of money from anywhere would be running contrary to the policy being pursued by the Australian Government. I point out, too, that by reason of the operation of the variable deposit arrangement the money would not be borrowed at 8 per cent in any case, but at something over 10 per cent. I would appreciate it if  Sir Robert  Askin or anybody else would prevail upon people within Australia to lend money at lower rates than currently they seem to be demanding. 
I have received a number of submissions from interested bodies following the tabling of the Melville-Pollard report. As indicated, an opportunity was given until 15 July, which has now passed, for interested bodies to make submissions. One submission was received from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations which represents, I understand, some 16 employee and pensioner organisations. I am prepared to receive a deputation from this body in due course. After hearing the representations the matter will be considered by the Government. 
 by leave - During the period ahead the Government and the Australian community will face critical decisions in the economic field. These decisions must be made in the context of renewed momentum in our inflationary spiral. It is appropriate, therefore, that I should outline tonight the Government's assessment of the task it faces and indicate the manner in which it will approach that task. The Government's hopes that the rate of price increase was slackening have proved illusory. (Opposition members interjecting) 
I thought the Opposition might have taken the statement seriously. The announcement last Friday that the consumer price index in the June quarter had risen by no less than 4.1 per cent not merely dispelled those hopes but reflected the influence of new and powerful influences at work in the formation of prices. I have no illusions about the magnitude, or the intractability, of the task we face. It must be obvious to all of us that, with prices and costs now rising at these rates, and with inflationary expectations now so entrenched, inflation cannot now be beaten without severe costs. It must be equally obvious that we would have preferred to avoid those costs. The plain fact is that we no longer have any real choice. 
 I repeat: The monetary situation is now very tight, and is still tight despite the laughing. We shall certainly keep it that way as long as is necessary. At the same time we shall maintain a proper flexibility. I inform the House that this afternoon the Governor of the Reserve Bank announced a further release of SDRs. 
 I have to be an expert in both SDRs and SRDs. The ones to which I refer are the SRDs, the statutory reserve deposits - not the special drawing rights, no matter how much some people might like to have special drawing rights. For a number of reasons monetary policy has had to carry an undue share of the burden during recent months. As fiscal policy takes on a greater role it will be appropriate to amend the policy mix' so as to reduce that undue burden. 
Stage two of our approach was unveiled at the Premiers Conference recently. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  then announced a policy for 1974-75 of restraint in government spending throughout the nation. He foreshadowed that the Australian Government would be deferring or rephasing much of its own (planned spending in 1974-75 and he announced financial provisions to the States which, in totality, were designed to ensure a similar policy of restraint on their part. One of the problems in dealing with inflation is that everyone wants it beaten but everyone also wants his own activities to remain quite unaffected. Everyone favours general restraint but still wants particular expenditure. There is no way - I repeat, no way - in which inflation can be beaten which will not involve discomfort for a while for the community as a whole. 
That is the background against which, tonight, I am announcing some further developments in our approach. In the normal course the steps I shall announce tonight would have been comprehended in a Budget in mid-August. However, with the Budget timetable now so delayed by the election, we have decided to take certain steps immediately. Some will no doubt question the need for the further measures; but after all, it does seem that in the last month or so the rate of increase in demand has eased somewhat. The boom, perhaps, is already on the wane. Further measures now, it will be said, will be too much, too late. Let me therefore say a little about the economic situation. 
At the same time he recognised that it would not be feasible, in the circumstances, to achieve in 1974-75 the rates of progress with all our programs to which earlier planning and expectations have been pitched. I reiterate that tonight - with a number of them we will have to accept a slower rate of implementation than we had been hoping for. Let me be clear. 
I hope I will be able to set an example for you next week. The Government does not deviate from its determination to proceed steadily and soberly with its plans to build an Australia in which life will be richer- (Honourable members interjecting)- 
I repeat: The Government does not deviate from its determination to proceed steadily and soberly with its plans to build an Australia in which life will be richer and opportunity more freely and equitably available. But the Government accepts that its plans must be realised with a timing consistent with the needs of sound economic management. These matters will be examined more fully in the context of the 1974-75 Budget but I now announce decisions which are an earnest of our resolution. The expenditure restraints we have required of the States will be fully matched by our own, including some in areas which we regard as vital to our long-term social objectives. 
First, we propose to reduce the immigration program for 1974-75. Subject to existing commitments, we shall be aiming for a total intake of not more than 80,000, of which assisted immigration would be not more than 40,000 - that is, approximately 10,000 less than last year. Secondly, in the policy speech last April reference was made to our plans to embark on a major pre-school and child care program at a cost then estimated at $130m in this financial year. This initiative reflected the high priority that we have consistently attached to the meeting of needs in this area - needs, I might say, which had been neglected almost entirely before. The Social Welfare Commission's report on the matter will be tabled in due course and we would expect a good deal of public discussion thereafter. Questions of resources, including staff, for such a program, have also been arising. Given these delays, as well as the now extreme need to restrain the further growth of government spending, the Government has reluctantly decided to postpone until 1975-76 the commencement of the full-scale program. We will, of course, fully honour the commitments that we have already entered into under the interim pre-school and child care schemes, and which alone could call for an outlay of about $34m in this financial year. Investigations currently in train may lead to the provision of further funds during the year. 
I come lastly to the question of the means test. When this Government came to office, we undertook to abolish the means test on age pensions in the life of the Parliament and wc took the first step last year to give effect to this undertaking. We planned to take a further step this spring. 
If the honourable member will listen patiently we will get to the result quicker. 
As I shall say in a moment, we shall be increasing pension rates in the near future but with the greatest reluctance we have decided that we should not proceed to the second step in the abolition of the means test, for persons aged 70 to 74 years, before the first pay-day after 1 April 1975. This temporary deferment will reduce prospective expenditure this financial year by some $45m. 
The difficult economic circumstances which we face, however, do not allow us to shed our responsibility as a Government to those with slender resources who inevitably are hardest hit by inflation, namely, the recipients of social service pensions and benefits. Moreover, I am conscious of the fact that the recent elections, which were forced on us by the obstructionary tactics of the Opposition in the Senate, have caused the Budget to be delayed a month. If we pursued the normal course, pensioners would be deprived for that time of the benefit of the increased rates. Accordingly, the Government has decided to increase the levels of pensions and benefits now by $5 a week in the standard or single rate and $6 a week in the combined married rate. These increases bring the standard rate pension to almost 25 per cent of estimated seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings in the June quarter 1974. The increased rates will become payable from the first pension pay-day after the legislation receives Royal Assent. The increases will apply to age, invalid and widows pensions, supporting mothers benefit, sheltered employment and rehabilitation allowances, unemployment and sickness benefits, repatriation service pensions, repatriation war widows pensions, and to recipients of tuberculosis allowances. In accordance with our established policy, we shall again review pension rates and benefits in the autumn of 1975. The cost of these increased benefits will be $340m in 1974-75 and $355m in a full year. My colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will introduce the necessary legislation shortly. 
At least it is good to acknowledge that one sees the future. Those price rises are, so to speak, already 'in the pipeline'. Our Budget to be brought down in September - including that part of it which, in effect, I have announced tonight - will however have an indirect effect on cost and price pressures through its impact on the economic climate in which wage bargaining is conducted. Closely linked with our present problems in the field of wage determination is the upward course of prices. It was for that reason that one of the first steps we took after coming to office in December 1972 was to move towards the establishment of a much greater degree of price surveillance - principally, though not solely, through the setting up of the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Bill which is now before the Parliament indicates our desire to move in a number of ways to enhance the role of the Tribunal further. 
As the Prime Minister said in his statement to the Premiers, the Prices Justification Tribunal can do only so much. Nonetheless, we now propose to invite the Tribunal to scrutinise with care price claims that are based on wage costs in excess of awards; where profit margins exceed those operating in 1972; where firms are unwilling to absorb reasonable increases in wages and other costs by improvement in efficiency; where prices are expected to contribute towards further capital expenditure; or where selling costs, including advertising, appear excessive. As a means of bringing some further indirect pressures to bear upon prices, the Government will press ahead with its trade practices legislation. That legislation will outlaw, without scope for exemption, agreements between suppliers providing for the fixing or controlling of prices. Other kinds of agreements and arrangements restricting competition also will be generally prohibited. 
Conclusion 
I have sought tonight to make clear the Government's deep concern about current inflationary trends and its determination to act to bring them under control. To do so will require a balanced program designed to have an effective impact but which can readily be adjusted to the changing needs of the emerging situation. In our forthcoming budgetary deliberations we shall be seeking to shape such a program. In doing so, we shall I hope demonstrate the Government's determination to ensure reasonable protection for those who may be adversely affected by any measures taken, while at the same time making it clear that the halting of inflation is the necessary first step to the active resumption of our policies of social and economic advancement. Against that background I commend the measures I have outlined tonight to honourable members. I present the following paper: 
Inflation- 'Ministerial Statement, 23 July 1974. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Snedden)  adjourned. 
The measures contained in my statement last night were specific fiscal measures that can be taken now. On the question generally of what one can do about the wage-price spiral or cost-push or anything else, I indicated last night that there has to be a better realisation both on the part of those who take wages and on the part of those who make prices that the consequences do not begin and end with the participants and that there are flow-ons. I think it is well that the community as a whole should realise this. We drew attention last night to what can only be best described as, if you like, a wage explosion. I am sure nobody believes that if he gets a 20 per cent wage increase that is all real increase. There is a difference between real and nominal increases. I hope there will be more realisation of this fact in the future. 
As the honourable gentleman well knows, there is to be a meeting in August convened by  Mr Justice  Moore specifically to investigate the wage area, which is central enough. 
As the honourable member for Hawker rightly suggests, the Woodhouse Committee has indicated substantial implications for the operations of insurance in very broad fields in the future. I will give early consideration to his suggestion that a consultative committee should be set up to examine this and other aspects of insurance in the future. I will also discuss with my colleague, the Minister for Overseas Trade, the honourable member's suggestion that the financial resources of the Australian Industry Development Corporation be. mobilised in the process. 
In the first place, I think that there is a great deal of misunderstanding as to what actually happened at the recent Premiers Conference with respect to the States. If one takes into account all moneys payable by the Commonwealth, in fact there was an overall increase of 28 per cent in payments to the States this financial year compared with what was previously paid which, again, in real terms was greater than what had been contributed the year before. I suggest that the honourable member will have to bide his time in patience like everybody else until 17 September when he will see what the final outcome in this respect is. 
I have already answered one question which was asked earlier by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - when the Leader of the Opposition was not in the chamber - and which covered some of the ground, but I will repeat what I said; that last night's measures were for the most part fiscal measures that we were able to take in advance of the Budget. One measure in particular - namely, the variation in the age pension - was at least an acknowledgement that some areas are hurt directly by inflation. We have taken the opportunity to redress that directly. The measures as far as the postal services are concerned are not designed to be anti-inflationary. They are simply an acknowledgement that these services are not covering their costs. We are simply asking that those who use the services should pay for them rather than having them met out of general revenue. As far as the increases in the duty on tobacco and spirits are concerned, if people continue to buy the same quantities of those items at higher prices and their incomes are not adjusted there will be a deflationary effect. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer on 8 November 1973 to Question No. 1132 asked by the honourable member in effect answered this question. See also my answer to Question No. 146, provided today. 
As indicated in the answer to Question No. 1132 it has not been practicable, in the circumstances prevailing in 1973 and since, to demonstrate by analysis of the complex factors involved that a particular percentage of the overall rise in the price level can be ascribed to externa] factors. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the year ended 30 June 1973, the average time which elapsed between the date on which documents were forwarded to the  Chairman  of the Taxation Board of Review No. 2 by the Commissioner of Taxation and the date on which the reference was listed for hearing was 257 days. 
During that year the Taxation Board of Review No. 2 gave formal decisions in 106 cases which bad been referred to the Board for determination. The Board allowed 16 references, partially allowed 23 and disallowed 67. 
Inflation: Updating of Paper on Sources  (Question No. 141!) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The analysis referred to cannot be 'updated'. It referred to a particular period and a particular conjunction of circumstances. Circumstances in the more recent past have been very different, with a number of factors judged unimportant in terms of their inflationary impact two years ago increasing greatly in importance. I refer here, in particular, to the excess liquidity which emerged following record capital inflow in 1972, to the big rise in export prices and to the growth in inflationary expectations. It is not practicable to quantify the effects of factors such as these on inflation. 
It is, however, possible to update the table showing the direct contribution of import price increases to total price increases for goods which appeared on page 21  of  The Australian Economy 1972'. The updated table appears below. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information: 

The November 1973 Labour Force Survey showed that 39 per cent of married women were in the civilian labour force. 
A sample survey carried out in May 1973 revealed that 27 per cent of married women with at least one child under six years of age were in the civilian labour force. The percentage for married women with children under five years of age is not available. 
The number of children in Australia at 30 June 1973 under five years is estimated to have been 1,277,300; and the number under six years 1,516,100. 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures  (Question No.  329)  Mr Snedden  asked  the  Prime  Minister,  upon notice: 
How many officers in his Department have been given some form of formal training in financial or auditing procedures used in Commonwealth departments in the last 12 months. 
What is the division and classification of these officers. 
How many of these officers were in operational, as distinct from financial or accounting positions in the Service. 
The first thing that should be said is that there is not any very satisfactory index in Australia for measuring productivity. I simply say that if the honourable member looks at the figures that will shortly be published about gross domestic product for Australia for the period ended in June 1974 he will see that they will show a rise of about 20 per cent in the 12-month period. 
If the right honourable member will let me finish the answer I will explain. The figures will show an increase from approxmately $40 billion at the end of June 1973 to about $48 billion at the end of June 1974. Even when one corrects that large increase of about $8 billion to allow for price variations there will still be shown an increment of approximately 6 per cent. Even allowing then for an increase in the work force this year of about 2 per cent that will show real growth in the economy of the magnitude of about 4 per cent. That is a much more satisfactory, performance than was evident in the two or three years prior to that. 
With regard to the elusive bird productivity - that is with the same input you get a greater output - there are some areas in the economy that it is very difficult to measure. One does not judge the quality of education, for instance, by the fact that school teachers teach larger classes rather than smaller ones. You would take the opposite point of view if you were an educationist. The overall figures in Australia are subject to some rather violent fluctuations because of what is called farm income as distinct from non farm income. All I would suggest is that the performance last year overall was much more satisfactory than had been evident for several years before. 
I present the following paper: 
Statement for the year 1973-74 of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901-1969 (Advance to the Treasurer). 
Ordered that the statement be taken into consideration in Committee of the Whole House at the next sitting. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There have been no occasions on which the deposit requirement has been waived for overseas borrowings coming within the ambit of the variable deposit requirement scheme. As I mentioned in my press release of 21 March 1974, the scheme makes no provision for exemptions. The following overseas borrowing do not come within the ambit of the scheme: 
borrowings of $100,000 or less in any period of 12 months; 
borrowings specifically to finance trade transactions on normal trade credit terms; 
drawings under loan agreements which received exchange control approval prior to the introduction of the scheme; and 
borrowings bythe Government itself or by governmental authorities whose borrowings are subject to supervision by the Australian Loan Council to the extent that such borrowings by these authorities are approved by the Treasurer and all necessary Loan Council requirements in respect of them are met. 
The certificate of deposit is a relatively new form of transaction in Australia. I believe that it has enabled the trading banks to become more competitive in the total credit field than previously. I think that in some respects the medicine was a little bit heady to begin with but that things have now settled down somewhat. I hope that there will be greater stability in the use of those instruments in the future than perhaps there was in the first 6 months of their operation. 
The right honourable gentleman began his question by asking me about the stability of the banking system in general. I think that the term 'safe as a bank' is still relevant as far as any of the- 
It would do the honourable member for Griffith good to think occasionally. 
Yes. I am unequivocal about it. I suggest that the term 'safe as a bank' is still relevant as far as any of the trading banks or savings banks in Australia are concerned. 
As the right honourable gentleman should well know, the 30/20 rule, as he describes it, is in a sense a quid pro quo for the very important tax concessions that those who contribute to life assurance companies and superannuation funds enjoy. The job of life assurance agents would be very much harder if it were not for the concessions which are available to contributors under the Income Tax Assessment Act, and I think the right honourable gentleman well knows that. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the Life Insurance Act 1945-73, I present the twenty-eighth annual report of the Insurance Commissioner for the year ended 31 December 1973. 
The Government does not regard the present levels of reserves in Australia as dangerously low. If anything, they are still quite - 
Judging by the right honourable gentleman's previous conduct as the 
Treasurer he would be a good judge of nonsense as far as economic policy is concerned. The Government has deliberately encouraged imports in recent months, and this has led to a run down in reserves. After all, what does one have reserves for? 

 Mr Peacock - You keep them for a rainy day. (Honourable members interjecting.) 
 by leave  -  I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Joint Committee on Prices: Imports in respect of which evidence is presented to the Committee that the Australian dollar price to consumers or users failed to respond to reductions in landed costs following the revaluation of the Australian dollar in December 1972 or following other relevant currency changes in 1973, with particular reference to those imports having a significant effect on domestic costs and prices. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution. 
I might explain,  Mr Speaker,  that this matter was referred to the Joint Committee on Prices on 3 May 1973, and, after the prorogation of the first session of the Twenty-eighth Parliament, referred again on 7 March 1974. Following its re-establishment in this Parliament, the Committee has requested that the matter be referred again to permit it to complete its inquiries. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the right honourable member^ question is as follows: 
The proportions requested were 34.8 per cent in 1971-72 and 35.9 per cent in 1972-73. The proportion for 1973-74 cannot be reliably estimated at this time. 
The answer to this question is indeterminate. It would depend, among other things, on what happened  to gross private fixed capital expenditure in the envisaged circumstances and, in consequence, total fixed capital expenditure. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The information sought is not available for private sector schemes. All six State Governments have superannuation schemes that make separate provision for those employees considered to be of lower medical standard at entry to the scheme. 
(a) The Western Australia State Government Superannuation Scheme makes such a provision by way of a separate Provident Account the assets of which are held as a part of the State Superannuation Fund, 
All the other five State Government schemes provide for employees of lower medical standard to be included in a single scheme as in the proposed scheme for Australian public servants. 
The times at which members of the schemes referred to in 2 (b) become entitled to full superannuation eligibility are as follows: 
New South Wales, Victoria- Attainment of age 60. Queensland, Tasmania- 20 years of scheme membership or age 60, whichever is the earlier. 
South Australia- 14 years of scheme membership or age 60, whichever is the earlier. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A survey examining the characteristics of 703 private sector superannuation schemes with a total membership of over 281,000 persons, undertaken in late 1972 by the  then  Department of Labour, obtained the following information in answers to questions about the form in which benefits were payable on normal retirement in schemes covered in the survey: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 97 (Hansard page 625 of 24 July 1974). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
There were a large number of theoretical works and empirical studies produced in the 1950s and 1960s which deal with the subject of non-bank financial institutions and it would not be practicable to make reference to them all. The publication 'Bibliography of Australian Finance 1900-1968' issued by the Reserve Bank in 1971 contains a bibliography of some of the works and studies undertaken in Australia. The publication of the Federal Reserve Board, Washington, in 1965, 'Monetary Theory and Policy: A Bibliography' is a bibliography of some of the studies undertaken overseas. However, specific attention might be drawn to the following major works and studies: 
G. Gurley and E. S. Shaw: 'Money in a Theory of Finance', Brookings Institution, Washington (1960). 'Financial Aspects of Economic Development', American Economic Review, September 1955. 
Patinkin: 'Financial Intermediaries and the Logical Structure of Monetary Theory', American Economic Review, March 1961. 
Tobin and W. C. Brainard: 'Financial Intermediaries and the Effectiveness of Monetary Controls', Cowles Foundation Paper No. 1 94, Yale ( 1 963 ). 
Clayton: 'British Financial Intermediaries in Theory and Practice 'Economic Journal, December 1962. 
L. Smith: 'Financial Intermediaries and Monetary Controls', Quarterly Journal of Economics, November 1959. 
W. Goldsmith: 'Financial Intermediaries in the American Economy since 1900', Princeton for National Bureau of Economic Research, 1958. 
Reserve Bank of Australia: 'Flow of Funds, Australia', Staff Paper and subsequent supplements to Statistical Bulletin. 
P. Hogan: 'Monetary Policy and the Financial Intermediaries', Economic Record, December I960. 
Many of the major theoretical works relating to the activities of non-bank financial intermediaries are concerned with showing the ways in which these activities can influence monetary and economic conditions rather than exploring the practical policy implications and making recommendations thereon. However, a recommendation that direct controls should be extended to non-bank financial institutions is implicit in a number of works, such as those undertaken by Gurley and Shaw and G. Clayton, which are generally accepted as major studies in this area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Distribution to contributors to the pension scheme and pensioners of the surplus disclosed by the Tenth Quinquennial Investigation of the Superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1972 will be made in accordance with the Superannuation (Distribution of Surplus) Act 1974. The Act, which received the Royal Assent on 1 1 April 1974, adopts the principles of the 1965 legislation for the distribution of the surplus in the Fund as at 30 June 1962. 
The answers to the three points raised in the question are: 
The persons who are eligible to participate in the distribution are defined in section 3 of the Act. The allocation between eligible persons will have regard to actuarial principles and practice and take into account all matters relevant to ensure that the allocation is on a fair and reasonable basis. 
In accordance with the Act, a person whose obligation to contribute to the pension scheme commenced before 30 June 1972 and ceased on or before 10 April 1974 and who resigned or retired and received a refund of his contributions or was retrenched and accepted a lump sum payment, will not participate in the distribution. 
Where an eligible contributor or eligible pensioner has died, the amount of any entitlement will be paid to the widow or, where there is no widow, to such other person or persons as the Superannuation Board determines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Representatives of the Australian Government attended a meeting of interested donor countries in Paris on 16 October 1973 to discuss the possible establishment of an aid group for Indo-China. The meeting was not secret and did not discuss the raising of any loan for South Vietnam. 
No. 
Australia's proposed contribution of $US27m to the Asian Development Fund will be used by the Asian Development Bank in accordance with agreed procedures to extend loans on concessional terms for projects in its poorer member countries. It is not possible, therefore, to say what percentage of these funds might go to any particular recipient. Loans made from the Asian Development Fund bear an interest rate of 1 per cent and are repayable over 40 years, with a grace period of 10 years. 
The World Bank and the Asian Development Bank can lend only to member countries. Any country which is a member of the International Monetary Fund can apply for membership of the World Bank and any country which is a member or an associate member of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, or a member of the United Nations or of any of its specialised agencies, can apply for membership of the Asian Development Bank. The Provisional Revolutionary Government is not currently a member of either the World Bank or the Asian Development Bank. It is therefore not eligible for loans from these institutions. In practice, neither the World Bank nor its affiliate the International Development Association have extended any loans to any of their member countries in Indo-China. 
and (6) The Australian Government is not a party to the Paris Agreements but has stated its support for them as offering the best prospects for peace in Vietnam. The contribution of Australian funds to the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, part of which might subsequently be channelled to South Vietnam, would not conflict with the provisions of the Paris Agreements. While the Agreements refer to the 'two South Vietnamese parties' (i.e. the Provisional Revolutionary Government and the Government of Vietnam), they do not do so on the basis of any assumption or stipulation that the two South Vietnamese parties have the same international legal status or are to be treated with strict equality by others. It is relevant that the International Conference on Vietnam held in Paris in March 1973 saw fit to include in its Final Act a penultimate sentence which read: 'Signature of this Act does not constitute recognition of any party in any case in which it has not previously been accorded. ' This was an important provision, required as much by North Vietnam, the PRG, the U.S.S.R. and China (in relation to their non-recognition of the Government of Vietnam) as by the United States, South Vietnam, France, Britain, Canada, etc. which do not recognise the PRG. 
Australian aid to South Vietnam is not directed exclusively to the Government of Vietnam. The Australian Government has also provided aid to areas under PRG control through multilateral bodies such as the Indo-China Operational Group of the International Red Cross and the United Nations Childrens Fund. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
All relevant considerations are taken into account when the government forms its view on the matters mentioned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Representations have been received on this matter. 
In reply it has been pointed out that the Australian Government and the several State Governments provide a wide range of subsidies to enterprises for various purposes. Where these subsidies take the form of direct payments, they are required to be brought to account as assessable income; where they come in an indirect way, for example, through reductions in the prices of inputs, they would automatically be reflected in income levels. There is nothing contrary to equity or good sense in this. Whatever their form, the subsidies result in an enhancement of the financial position of the enterprises which benefit by them and it is proper that they pay more tax accordingly. It would certainly be anomalous if subsidies like a pay-roll tax rebate were exempt from tax while the additional income generated through other kinds of subsidies continued to be subject to tax in the ordinary way. 
It has also been pointed out that the rebates of pay-roll tax allowed under the old export incentive scheme were included in assessable income up to the dme the pay-roll tax was transferred to the States and that the grants based on notional pay-roll tax which have replaced the rebates are similarly treated. There would be some inconsistency if the Australian Government taxed rebates given under its own jurisdiction but exempted those given under State jurisdiction. 
Finally, I mention that State schemes of pay-roll tax rebates have the effect of encouraging a dispersed approach to decentralisation. The policy of the Australian Government, on the other hand, is one of promoting the accelerated growth of selected centres. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member's attention to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 329 (Hansard pages 626 and 627). 
Department of Labor and Immigration: Training in Financial and Auditing Procedures (Question No. 364) 
I am not aware of a meeting being held or even of the body that has been mentioned. But the Government's plans certainly will be announced at 8 o 'clock tonight. 
-To the best of my knowledge I am not aware of the gentleman mentioned. I have heard of the Bank, which is a well known institution in Switzerland. The honourable gentleman, of course, is not alone in forecasting doom for the future of Western economies. Personally, I have a lot more faith in the ability of democratic governments to survive those forebodings and I hope that with a little co-operation and understanding of the basic problems those events will not overwhelm the Western world. It will be very sad for the Western world if they do. It will mean the end of the kinds of mechanisms of government that we have and on which we pride ourselves as being the best in the world. 
It is an unfortunate circumstance that in order that money can be loaned to B it first has to be obtained somewhere else from A. In the face of continuing inflation nobody is disposed at the moment to accept low rates on money deposited with institutions. This is one of the hard facts of life, unfortunately. It does not apply only in Australia; it applies in all the countries that the previous questioner asked me about. If contracts were written firm with a particular interest rate they ought not to be varied but I think that probably, as is so often the case, borrowers do not always read the fine points of the relevant documents. Most lendings from banks contain provisions for the rate to be varied as the bank itself has to pay higher interest on its deposits. '.  1t 
I am hopeful as are others, that gradually interest rates will come down rather than go up. But they will not come down in the face of continuing inflation. Whilst a lot of hard words are spoken about .inflation and there are a lot of attempts to suggest that if Opposition members were in government instead of us it would not exist, I point out again that the governments of France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, some of which vary in political complexion from this one, have the same sort of economic problem. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In doing so, I present the Budget for 1 974-75. 
The Government has twice in less than two years been elected to carry out programs of social reform and progress. 
The Budget proposals I am announcing tonight are designed to advance our programs and to make Australia a fairer society. 
I will say it again: An economy subjected to exceptional strains. We share with all our major trading partners problems of economic management unparalleled in modern times. Yet it must be emphasised that these problems flow from Australia's basic strength and real prosperity. In the past year- and those honourable members who have studied the White Paper on national income can read it for themselves- gross domestic product increased in real terms by 5% per cent. Civilian employment rose by a record 218,000. Incomes rose strongly in both real and dollar terms. 
Partly because of this increase in incomes, price increases have been large and widespread. Until recently, we have experienced severe shortages and delays in the supply of a wide range of goods and materials and a disturbingly high incidence of industrial disputes. 
The Government acted decisively to ease the excess pressures on the economy prevalent during most of 1973-74. Firm action was taken through monetary policy to moderate excessive demands and through exchange rate adjustments and tariff reductions to increase supplies. In the event, nearly one-half of the increase in demand was satisfied by the increase in imports resulting from our external policies. 
These actions have achieved their objective. Demand pressures in the private sector have abated in recent months. After strong growth in the first half of 1973-74, capital spending by business declined slightly in real terms in the second half of the year. Investment in new dwellings, which had been far outstripping the growth in building resources, is now more in line with the supplies available. Though remaining reasonably buoyant, consumer spending is now a less dominant expansionary force than it was during much of 1 973-74. 
The abatement in demand pressures is evidenced also in the labour market. Unemployment has increased and overtime working has diminished. 
Although demand pressures are being contained, powerful cost pressures have been unleashed which threaten further unsettling price increases. In that connection I mention that the Government is exploring a tax penalty mechanism by which wage and salary increases beyond an established norm might be excluded from assessable costs for the assessment of company income tax. 
The conventional response to inflation has relied almost entirely on the creation of mass unemployment. Those who advocate such a course in present conditions are unable to say what level of unemployment would markedly reduce inflation. The Government is not prepared deliberately to create a level of 4 or 5 per cent, or perhaps even higher unemployment. 
The Government is convinced that the best course is to attack the cost price spiral directly. We are pursuing this course in discussions with the State Governments arising from the recent special conference with Premiers. We have also engaged in discussions with unions and employers, particularly in the context of the Moore Conference. This form of action depends upon widespread and unusual co-operation. To rely on unemployment to reduce cost pressures would inhibit that co-operation and could destroy the Government's right to claim it. The Government will not close off its options until the possibilities of co-operation have been given a proper test. 
However, decisions taken in the Budget context remain important in this overall strategy. We must maintain control over total demand to prevent excessive demand pressures emerging again. The expansion in the public sector contained in this Budget is designed to take up the slack emerging in the private sector. 
The Government's appeal for restraint on wages and prices will, I believe, be reinforced by the decisions, particularly on the tax side, which I shall shortly announce. In making their wage claims, employees should recognise that the Government expects the principal burden of restraint to fall on upper income groups, particularly through the impact on profits of the operations of the Prices Justfication Tribunal and by the substantial redistribution of incomes which will arise from this Budget, particularly from the amendments to the income tax system and the new provisions for the taxation of property incomes and capital gains. The possibility of restraint from all sections of the community will be enhanced by the decisions I will announce designed to reduce the burdens on and increase the benefits for wage earners and particularly low and single income families. 
The Government will continue to be flexible in its use of policy instruments to meet any difficulties which emerge- as illustrated by the action earlier this month to enable the Savings Banks to increase their lending for housing, and by the recently announced decision to institute a Regional Employment Development Scheme. Should the need arise, we stand ready during the year to take action on the expenditure or revenue side of the Budget to give a quick stimulus to demand and employment. 
Crucial as the fight against inflation is, it cannot be made the sole objective of Government policy. This Government is committed to the program of social reform to improve the position of the less privileged groups in our society and to maintain employment opportunities. We intend to pursue those programs and objectives without significant increase in the public service which will be held to the increase in operative staff of 1 per cent previously announced. 
The Government's overriding objective is to get on with our various initiatives in the fields of education, health, social welfare and urban improvement. The relatively subdued conditions in prospect on the private sector provide the first real opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
It is against this background that we have budgeted for substantial increases in expenditure on our major programs of reform this year. 
-Well honourable members opposite can tell us later where they would cut it down. 
And inflation- but substance as well. These include the new programs of expenditure on primary and secondary schools being administered by the Schools Commission; the Government's undertaking of total financial reponsibility for tertiary education throughout Australia; the abolition of fees for tertiary and technical education; and the new student assistance measures. 
Our expenditure on schools will increase from $234 million in the last financial year to $555 million in 1974-75, an increase of 137 per cent. On universities and colleges of advanced education, expenditure will rise from $524 million to $818 million, a 56 per cent increase. 
This Budget provides for important new measures in education to be introduced in 1974-75. 
A major new initiative will be undertaken in the field of technical and further education, based on the broad program recommended by the Kangan Committee. Subject to the understanding that the States will not reduce the level of their own activities in technical education, we expect to spend $96.5 million in the States on this program in two years, and have provided $49.1 million for this purpose in 1974-75. This will cover expenditure on land and buildings, including residential faculties for students, and on equipment and minor works, assistance with general recurrent expenditure, and for specific purposes such as in-service teacher education and library development. The Minister for Education will be providing details of this program. 
The Government has accepted the recommendations of the Schools Commission that extra funds should be allocated along the lines suggested in the Karmel Report to ensure that the impact of Schools Commission grants, and of grants under earlier programs for school science arid library facilities, is not eroded by cost increases. An amount of about $78 million will be available for this purpose during the remainder of the 1974 school year and in the 1975 school year; $48.5 million of this is included in the 1974-75 Budget. Previously, we had introduced procedures to supplement grants to universities and colleges of advanced education for the same purpose. Provision for these supplementary grants has been made for the first time in the 1974-75 Budget, at a cost of $39.2 million. 
Changes to existing schemes of assistance to students at secondary and tertiary levels are estimated to cost an additional $7.2 million in 1974-75. These will permit rates of allowances and means tests to be adjusted to reflect movement in costs. 
Details of other initiatives in education to be introduced in 1974-75 will be announced by the Minister for Education. care and education of young children 
The Government has decided to proceed with its full-scale program for the care and education of young children. We propose a fully integrated approach to the needs of childhood, embracing education, health and care services. An amount of $75 million has been provided in the Budget to enable a start to be made on the program by no later than 1 January 1975, and to meet existing commitments. 
A Children's Commission will be established to assume responsibility for administering all existing commitments in this area and for developing the new program. Meanwhile, an interim Children's Committee will be set up. 
Details of the Government's decisions on the care and education of young children will be the subject of a statement by the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister. 
-Well, we have increased it. The provision for defence outlays in 1974-75, including defence-related activities of the Department of Manufacturing Industry and other departments, is $1,498.7 million compared with actual outlays of $1,334.1 million in 1973-74. This provision for defence purposes enables the Government to continue its policy of maintaining Defence Forces which, in conformity with the present strategic outlook, sustain a proper level of defence capability and potential for future expansion. 
The Government is proceeding with the four new major equipment projects for the Armed Forces announced in April this year, with a total commitment of some $330 million to be spread mainly over the next eight years. These projects are: eight Long Range Maritime Patrol aircraft for the RAAF, fifty-three modern medium tanks and forty-five Fire Support Vehicles for the Army, and two new destroyers for the RAN. In addition, an extensive program for the refitting and modernisation of RAN surface ships and submarines is under way. Meanwhile, production is proceeding against the orders of previous years; this involves substantial expenditure on items such as two additional Oberon submarines and ten Westland Sea King helicopters. 
New budgetary arrangements for providing financial assistance to Papua New Guinea in respect of defence are being introduced with effect from 1 December 1974. An amount of $12.5 million is being provided for defence cooperation with, and defence financial assistance to, Papua New Guinea from that date. Estimated expenditure on defence in Papua New Guinea this year, prior to 1 December, is $ 10.2 million. 
Expenditure on continuing defence cooperation with a number of other friendly countries in the region of immediate strategic interest to Australia is estimated as $ 12 million. 
The 1974-75 Defence Program provides for reductions in civilian support manpower additional to those achieved in 1973-74. These further reductions are made possible by the rationalisation of activities. 
It is intended that legislation will be brought down later this year to enable the reorganisation of the Department of Defence to be put into full effect. 
My colleague, the Minister for Defence, will be making a more detailed statement on defence matters at a later time. 
The honourable member for Kooyong can read the details in the White Paper. 
There are a lot of credibility gaps in Australia today. 
I think that they are not isolated to us. 
The honourable member for Kooyong is lucky that he has one. 
-It soon will be. On the basis of that report the Government has decided to introduce a tax on liquefied petroleum gas used in propelling road vehicles, but not on gas used for other purposes. The rate of tax will be set initially at 2 cents a litre-we have even gone metric- which is about 40 per cent of the present rate of duty on motor spirit. Should there be any increase in the rate of duty on motor spirit in future, it is proposed that the tax on liquefied petroleum gas will be increased by an amount equivalent to one-half of that increase. It is not proposed to review this basis for setting the relative rate of tax on liquefied petroleum gas for at least five years and the industry can, therefore, plan on that basis. 
Customs and Excise Duties on Brandy 
As announced in last year's Budget Speech, the difference between the rates of duty on brandy and on other spirits is being abolished by raising the duty on brandy in three equal annual steps. The first stage of the increase was implemented last year and there will be a further increase in duty this year equivalent to 40 cents per litre of alcohol. 
Pay-roll Tax 
Pay-roll tax in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory will be increased by one-half of one per cent, to 5 per cent, on wages payable on or after 1 December 1974. This will bring the rate into line with that imposed by the States since 1 September. 
This is old news. I announced this last year. I am sure you will be pleased to know we are not proposing to alter it. 
Taxation of Income from Mining 
Several amendments are proposed to the income tax law affecting enterprises engaged in prospecting and rnining other than for gold. At present both general and petroleum mining enterprises are able to defer payment of tax for long periods under provisions for the allowance of immediate or accelerated deductions for capital expenditures, including anticipated expenditures. As a result, many highly profitable companies have paid relatively little tax over an extended period. 
Other provisions exempt from tax 20 per cent of income derived from production of certain minerals, including bauxite, copper, nickel and beach sands. There is no justification for this exemption and it will be withdrawn as from 1 July 1974. 
Deductions will not in future be allowable for capital expenditure incurred on company formation and capital raising. Capital expenditure on the development of a mine or well, on the provision of community faculties adjacent to a mine or well, or on the purchase of rnining rights or information will be deductible henceforth over the estimated life of the mine or well. Where the estimated life is longer than 25 years the allowance will be one twenty-fifth of the undeducted capital expenditure. Capital expenditure on facilities for the transport of minerals will be deductible for income tax purposes over 20 years instead of 10 years. However, in relation to any of those expenditures to be made by 30 June 1976 under contracts already entered into, deductions will continue to be allowable under the present provisions of the law. 
Exploration expenditure incurred by general mining companies in 1974-75 and subsequent income years will be allowable as immediate deductions up to the level of income derived in any year from general mining and associated activities in the same way as petroleum prospecting and mining companies are allowed immediate deductions against income from petroleum for similar expenses. Prospecting and other activities carried out by general mining companies on the continental shelf will be regarded as having been carried out in Australia, consistent with the taxation treatment of petroleum operations carried on at off-shore locations. 
You will be interested in this next one. 
Surcharge on Property Income 
The Government considers that income which an individual receives from property- that is, unearned income- should bear more tax than income from personal exertion. The Australian taxation system did, in fact, tax unearned income at higher rates than income from personal exertion from 1915 to 1953 and a number of other countries tax unearned income at special rates. 
A surcharge will therefore be imposed on property income received by individuals in 1974-75. The surcharge will be 10 per cent of the tax on property income included in the taxable income. This tax will be calculated by applying to property income the average rate payable on total taxable income under the ordinary rate schedule. 
-Well, the right honourable gentleman should not need any telling. He knows. The new tax will apply to capital gains realised after today. However, in relation to property already held, the tax will fall only on gains accruing after today. Today's values will be taken as one basis of calculation of those gains, but where today's values are below the cost of acquiring property, the new tax will not apply unless realization value exceeds that cost. 
If you listen you will hear, but I do not know whether you will understand. 
-That is why you should listen carefully. 
At the taxpayer's option, however, gains accruing after today will be the proportion of total gains that, on a time basis, is related to the period of ownership of assets after today. 
Capital gains will include gains from the disposal of assets, capital sums otherwise derived from assets, foreign exchange gains, and gains from the purchase of debentures by their issuer. A disposal will be deemed to occur in cases extending beyond sales and exchanges, and will include compulsory acquisitions, losses or destruction of property, creation of a trust, gifts, transfers on death- in broad terms, any passing of property or an interest in property from one person to another will be included. Capital losses will be deductible against capital - 
Listen again. 
-No. We treat you all the same. You do not need to renew it any more. 
-$100 a year. Further details are given in a separate statement. 
The honourable member should listen to the next bit 
There are so many good things that one has to tell the lot. The revised scale will be reflected in PA YE deductions as from 1 November 1974. 
In addition to the reductions in tax on low incomes in general under the new rate scale, we see a particular need for tax relief to low income families. A special rebate of tax will be introduced for that purpose. If a taxpayer's saving of tax at ordinary rates from his dependants maintenance deductions would be less than 40 per cent of the amount of those deductions, a rebate of tax will be given to bring the tax saving up to 40 per cent or up to the tax otherwise payable if that is less. In some cases the rebate will extinguish tax altogether and the savings in some cases will be as high as $5 or $6 a week. Where this does not happen, it will be greater the lower the income of the taxpayer and the larger his dependants deductions. Taxpayers who would already be saving 40 per cent or more of their dependants deductions will not benefit. 
The rebate will be reflected in P A Y E deductions as from 1 November 1974. A separate statement explains it further. 
The total cost to revenue of the restructuring of the rate scale and the special rebate for low income families is of the order of $430 million on a full-year basis. 
The combined effect of these two measures will be to cut dramatically the tax payable by those on lower incomes with dependants. For example, a taxpayer with a dependent spouse and two dependent children and with average other deductions earning $70 a week paid $213 in tax on 1973-74 income; on 1974-75 income no tax will be payable. If he earns $90 per week the tax payable will be cut by more than half, from $389 per annum to $190. At $120 a week the gains remain significant, tax payable falling from $739 per annum to $577. 
Taken together, our tax measures constitute major reforms. They will make the tax system fairer and more equitable. The great majority of wage and salary earners, and especially lowincome single-income families, will pay less tax as a result. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This speech is blessedly short. This Bill contains details of proposed appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1974-75 totalling $1,670,805,000 for expenditure on: The construction of public works and buildings; the acquisition of sites and buildings; advances and loans; items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution; and new policies not authorised by special legislation. Included in the above total is an amount of $75m as an advance to the Treasurer for the purposes set out in the Bill. The proposed expenditures in this Bill were dealt with as appropriate in my Budget Speech. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
The preliminary report was prepared by the Committee at my request in order that a broad-brush indication of the Committee 's views on some of the larger taxation issues could be available prior to the shaping of the 1974-75 Budget. In tabling it now I express the hope that the report will stimulate public discussion on the many major taxation isssues with which it deals. In that connection I mention that between now and the end of this year the Treasury will be publishing its submisssions to the Taxation Review Committee and that the full report of the Committee is expected to be published around the end of 1974. In the light of detailed examination of the Committee 's preliminary report and, when it is received, the full report, and of the public discussion which will be stimulated by them, the Government will thereafter review its policies towards the taxation system as a whole. In tabling the preliminary report I express my appreciation of the quick and effective way in which the Committee, under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Asprey, responded to my request for a preliminary report. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
These Bills will amend the Wool Tax Acts (Nos 1 to 5) 1964-1973 to provide for an increased rate of wool tax. They are a consequence of arrangements for the marketing of the 1974-75 wool clip that have been approved by the Government and agreed to by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Our intention to introduce them was announced by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  on 29 August. 
Wool tax is currently levied at the rate of 2.75 per cent. At this level, it represents wool growers ' contributions towards the financing of programs of wool research and promotion and the administration of the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. 
The additional tax proposed by these Bills will be imposed at the rate of 5 per cent thus bringing the total levy up to 7.75 per cent. The 5 per cent increase will apply from 2 September 1974 to 30 June 1975 and the revenue from it will be appropriated for use by the Australian Wool Corporation to meet any losses it may incur during the 1974-75 wool selling season from the maintenance of a firm floor price of 250 cents per kilogram clean for 21 micron wool in the wool market. Legislation will be introduced at the first opportunity to provide for the creation of a separate fund for this purpose. 
The date from which the increased rate of tax will apply coincides with the date of the resumption of auction sales for the 1974-75 wool selling season. Tax will, therefore, be collected at a common rate for all wool sold since the introduction of the minimum floor price. The Wool Tax Act (No. 1 ) imposes a tax on shorn wool produced in Australia and sold by a wool broker. The other Acts ensure that where shorn wool is not sold by a broker it is subject to tax at some other point. The need for 5 separate Acts arises from a constitutional requirement that laws imposing taxes should deal with one subject of taxation only. I commend the bills to the house. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government has not considered the matter. 
The other evening when this matter was mentioned in the Budget Speech, I indicated that a memorandum was available that set out in broad detail some of these problems. I think the honourable member will understand that these are matters of some complexity. As for as farm property is concerned, I hope he will appreciate the fact that valuation day was on Budget day. I doubt, listening to the whingeing of farmers, whether any of them anticipate great capital gains on their properties in the immediate future, but I would suggest that when the relevant Bill is introduced somewhat later in the session these matters will be dealt with. 
-I am not like the Leader of the Opposition, who makes statements with precision in areas where you cannot be precise. I think the honourable member for Corangamite will acknowledge that he scarcely asked what might be called a precise question. 
-I would be happy if that were done. 
It must be terribly simple. All I am suggesting is that the question is not as simple as that. The capital gains tax would not be payable by the person to whom the property was assigned; it would be paid by the person who presumably had died. 
-Apparently honourable members opposite find this subject to be a matter of jest. I would submit with all respect that the Leader of the Opposition knows nothing whatever about the matter. As has been indicated, I have merely shown in broad outline what the situation will be. There are going to be some difficulties administratively. 
-I would like an opportunity to clarify my understanding of the question asked by the honourable member for Corangamite. Had he used the word 'inheritance' instead of the word 'assignation' I would have understood it better. But I now take the point that he made. I assure the honourable member that this matter is spelled out in paragraph 7 of the memorandum. 
Yes, I have read it before. Paragraph 7 simply states that if capital gains tax is payable on death on the increase in value of assets, including a farm, then the amount so payable by an executor is deductible from the value of the estate for estate duty purposes. That is spelled out in detail in paragraph 7. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to the guarantee by the Australian Government of a US$10.8m-A$7.3m- borrowing by the Government of Papua New Guinea from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The proceeds of the loan will assist in financing the development and expansion of the operations of the Papua New Guinea Electricity Commission during the period 1974-79. This loan follows a loan for US$23.2m-A$15.6m-to the Electricity Commission in 1971 to assist in financing a major hydro-electric project on the Upper Ramu River in the Highlands of Papua New Guinea. The loan documents were signed by authorised representatives of the Australian Government on 12 June following negotiations in Washington which were attended by representatives of the International Bank, Australia, the Government of Papua New Guinea and the Electricity Commission. The Government of Papua New Guinea will onlend the proceeds of the loan to the Electricity Commission which, under an associated project agreement between the Commission and the Bank, is responsible for the project. 
The project consists of three parts: Firstly, technical assistance for the Electricity Commission's in service training program for indigenous staff; secondly, financing to cover the shortfall of funds available from the 1971 loan for the Upper Ramu River project attributable solely to exchange rate movements and, thirdly, the expansion of electricity distribution facilities. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$17.25m-A$l 1.6m-and the loan will cover the foreign exchange component of the total cost. Borrowings by the Government of Papua New Guinea automatically carry an Australian Government guarantee by virtue of the operation of section 75a of the Papua New Guinea Act 1949-1973. However, with loans from the International Bank, a formal guarantee agreement is required from the Australian Government and this must be authorised by specific legislation. The guarantee agreement for this loan, which is shown as the First Schedule to the Bill, follows the form of the 4 guarantee agreements previously approved by Parliament in connection with a telecommunications loan made by the International Bank to Papua New Guinea in 1968, a highways loan made in 1970, the first hydroelectric project loan in 1971 and a second telecommunications project loan in 1 972. 
The present loan carries an interest rate of 7.25 per cent and is for a period of 20 years, with repayments commencing after 5 years. A commitment fee of three-quarters of one per cent per annum is payable on undrawn balances until the loan is fully drawn. The Bill provides for parliamentary approval of the guarantee agreement. It makes consequential provision to ensure the effectiveness of undertakings in the guarantee and loan agreements regarding freedom of payments from Australian taxation or restrictions imposed by Australian law. It also includes an appropriation of moneys required for the Australian Government to make any payments under the guarantee. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr  Adermann) adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of additional financial assistance grants to the State of Tasmania. It provides for the payment of an amount of $ 15m in addition to the financial assistance grants otherwise payable to the State in 1974-75 and for the incorporation of this amount into the 'base' for purposes of calculating the grants payable to the State under the formula in 1975-76 and subsequent years. The decision to provide an additional financial assistance grant to Tasmania followed a request by the Premier of Tasmania at the June Premier's Conference this year for discussions with the Australian Government to consider the possibility of this State withdrawing from the special grants system. Following such discussions it was agreed that the revisions to the State's entitlement under the financial assistance grants arrangements which I have outlined would be appropriate to enable such a withdrawal. It was also agreed with the State that the Grants Commission would be asked not to recommend final adjusting payments- known as completion grants- in respect of the 'advance' payments of the special grants made to the State, on the recommendation of the Commission in 1972-73 and 1973-74. This request has been conveyed to the Commission. 
Turning to the details of the Bill, the first three clauses are of a machinery nature. Clause 4 of the Bill provides for the amendment of the States Grant Act 1973- the legislation which at present authorises the payment of financial assistance grants to the States- by the insertion of a new section 6a to follow section 6. The first subclause of the new section 6  a  specifies that during 1974-75 there will be payable to Tasmania an amount of $ 15m in addition to the amount payable under section 6. The second sub-clause of the new section provides for the additional amount of $15m to be included in the base amount for calculation of grants payable to Tasmania in subsequent years under the formula laid down in section 6. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that in the Budget Speech I indicated that I would shortly introduce legislation to appropriate funds to enable the Government to make loans to the Australian Wool Corporation in addition to the $ 13m provided for in the Budget. The purpose of this BUI is to enable me, on behalf of the Australian Government, to make loans of up to $150m to the Corporation. Proceeds of such loans would be available for financing purchases of wool at auction (including tender) and for the making of advances to growers whose wool is withheld from the market by the Corporation. My colleague, the Minister for Agriculture, announced on 27 August that the Corporation would operate a minimum (floor) price equivalent to 250 cents per kilo clean for 2 1 micron wool during the 1974-75 season, and that the Government would guarantee sufficient funds for this purpose. 
The Minister and I agreed that, in the first instance, the Corporation should explore the possibility of the consortium of trading banks augmenting their current line of credit of $34m. In the event, however, it has become clear that the trading banks are not well placed at this time to commit funds of the order necessary to put beyond doubt the Corporation's capacity to sustain the floor price. Honourable members will appreciate that, from the standpoint of maintaining confidence in the wool market, it is of the utmost importance to ensure that the Corporation's capacity to do this is beyond question. The Government has also recognised that the provision of large amounts of bank finance to the Corporation would have meant a substantial reduction in the amount of such finance available to meet other essential needs in the rural and other sectors of the economy. 
These considerations led the Government to the view that the only really practicable way to provide the Corporation with the finance required is by means of a special appropriation of funds by the Parliament. Honourable members will be aware that, in addition to purchases at prices equivalent to the floor price, the Corporation may at times acquire wool at prices above the floor price, under its flexible reserve price scheme. Also, as indicated earlier, the Corporation 's operations in 1974-75 may entail not only substantial purchases of wool but also arrangements for the withholding of wool from market at times when demand is weak. It will be apparent to honourable members that, should the Corporation withhold wool from sale for a time pending an improvement in the market outlook, some growers would be temporarily disadvantaged and, indeed, could be faced with considerable financial difficulties, if the banking system and other traditional sources of finance for wool growers were unable or unwilling to carry growers for the additional time involved. The Government has therefore decided to provide the Corporation with sufficient funds to enable it also to make advances of a proportion of the floor price to growers experiencing such difficulties. The total amount of funds likely to be required for the Corporation's purposes is difficult to establish, depending as it does on the extent to which the trade supports the market. It is considered that the amount available to the Corporation should be sufficiently large to cover its requirements for a reasonable period ahead. Insofar as it is possible to predict at this stage, we judge that an amount of $ 150m should be fully adequate for this purpose, and the Bill seeks an appropriation of that amount. We shall, however, keep the position under close review. 
Having regard to the difficulty of forecasting with any precision either the timing or amount of the Corporation's requirements, the bill proposes that the Treasurer be empowered to make advances up to the amount indicated, in such amounts and such terms and conditions as he approves. I shall, of course, exercise these powers in full consultation with the Minister for Agriculture. The Bill provides for the advances to the Corporation to be made either from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Loan Fund, and authorises me to borrow the moneys concerned if I consider that desirable. I am sure that honourable members will appreciate the need for expeditious action in this matter, to put the Wool Corporation in funds and demonstrate beyond all possible doubt the Corporation's capacity to sustain its floor price operations. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I am not aware of the meeting to which the honourable member has referred. In so far as primary producers substantiate that aircraft are employed as a necessary part of earning their income, I suppose their cost would be deductible. But I would guess there would be some doubt in always establishing that. 
As part of the Budget presented last week the Government indicated the intention to impose a differential rate on income from certain sources- rent, interest, dividends- as distinct from income from personal exertion. This is a practice which is followed in quite a number of other countries. It is one which was followed in this country prior to 1953-54. The logic of it is that there is a difference in 2 incomes of the same amount, one of which is derived from personal exertion and the other of which is derived from property. The differential rate acknowledges that difference. 
-I present the Taxation Statistics 1972-73 dated 1 
September 1974, being a supplement to the fiftysecond report of the Commissioner of Taxation, and the fifty-third report of the Commissioner of Taxation dated 1 September 1974, and move: 
That the papers be printed. 
By way of explanation, honourable members will recall that it is the practice of the House to agree forthwith to the motion to print these papers so that they be covered by parliamentary privilege. This course has the concurrence of the Leader of the Opposition. When the motion is agreed to the papers will be circulated immediately. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the National Debt Sinking Fund Act 1966-67, I present for the information of honourable members the fiftyfirst annual report of the National Debt Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the Minister for Transport received a submission on this matter. The submission was considered within the context of the urban public transport assistance scheme as announced by the Government last year. The Minister for Transport subsequently wrote to the Tasmanian Minister for Transport pointing out this scheme applied to State capital and that the needs of the dues of Newcastle, Wollongong, and Geelong and the corridors linking them and the capital cities would also be looked at. In settling on this program the Government had given consideration to the limitations on finance which would be available and decided that priority should be given to these areas. The Minister informed the State Minister that in the light of the foregoing he was unable to see his way clear to recommend a reordering of the Government's priorities to enable the area of Tasmania outlined in the State submission to be eligible for assistance within the program announced last year. 
Else-Mitchell Report into Land Tenure  (Question No. 379) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As mentioned by the Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank in his press statement of 12 June 1974, some banks have borrowed from the Reserve Bank in order to maintain their LGS ratios above the agreed minimum of 1 8 per cent. 
In accordance with traditional banker/customer relationships, the terms and conditions of loans by the Reserve Bank under the terms of the LGS convention are not made public. The Bank may charge "penal" rates on such loans if it considers this justified. 
The trading banks do not borrow from the central bank to meet a shortage of cash but to observe the terms of the LGS convention. Thus they may have to borrow when they have adequate cash but not sufficient LGS assets in total to meet the 18 per cent minimum. The agreement with the Reserve Bank requires inter alia that they try to maintain the minimum LGS ratio by means other than borrowing from the Bank. As regards the drain on bank liquidity over recent months, the banks have sought to mitigate it in a variety of ways including issues of certificates of deposit, sales of commercial bills, reduced loans to authorized dealers in the short term money market, and a sharply reduced rate of new lending. Funds released from Statutory Reserve Deposit Accounts by the Reserve Bank have also provided a partial offset to the drain on liquidity. 
See answer to (2). 
Land Held by Australian Government (Question No. 568) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have not read the transcripts and evidence presented to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices relating to import prices. I have however had the Report on that matter carefully examined. 
) and (3) Yes. The report provides specific and detailed material, both to confirm results which might have been broadly foreseen in a more general way, and to clarify questions where there could have been doubt of the practical situation. In particular, the report indicates firstly that, in the cases it deals with, the revaluation of the Australian dollar had arrested the trend of rising import prices and that import prices would have risen significantly without revaluation, and secondly, that reductions in landed costs following revaluation had, in general, been passed onto the consumers of these products. 
The recommendations do not cover matters which would be primarily the responsibility of the Treasurer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government raised no objections to the 8 proposals concerned. Each of these proposals involved takeovers of companies with total assets of less than $1 million. It is the Government's practice not to intervene in respect of such takeovers except in special circumstances. 
Interim orders are made to provide time to enable further consideration to be given to a proposal. In the case of the S proposals in question, the preliminary examination period of one month did not provide sufficient time for the Government to reach fully informed judgments. 
No. 
and (5) Under the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act 1972-73, action to prevent consummation of a particular takeover proposal is subject to the Government being satisfied that it would result in effective control of the 'target' company being transferred from Australian to overseas interests and that this would be contrary to the national interest. Accordingly, these are the bases on which individual takeover proposals are considered so far as the taking of action under the Act is concerned. Because confidential information is involved, it would not be appropriate for me to provide detailed information on the particular cases mentioned in my press release. 
The Government has continued to apply the criteria outlined on 26 September 1972 by the then Prime Minister in a statement to the House on overseas investment in Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on State legislation relating to cooperatives is not readily available. The position in regard to mainland Territories is as follows:- 
Northern Territory legislation comprises the Co-operative Societies Ordinance 1945-1972 and the Co-operative Trading Societies (Loans Guarantee) Ordinance 1969-72. The former deals essentially with the formation, powers and operation of a registered society; the latter authorises the Australian Government to guarantee the repayment of money borrowed by certain societies and for related purposes. In the Australian Capital Territory, legislation in force comprises the Co-operative Societies Ordinance 1939-1973 and the Housing Loans Guarantees (Australian Capital Territory) Act 1959. The former deals essentially with the incorporation of co-operative trading societies, building societies and credit societies, their powers and operation; the latter is an Act to facilitate the borrowing of money by co-operative building societies and the Commissioner for Housing. 
and (3) The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following information. 
The activities of co-operatives are controlled by various types of legislation brought down by State and Australian Parliaments for specific purposes at particular times. The appended tables 1 to 7 show, for each State and the Australian 
Capital Territory and Northern Territory combined, a classification of type of legislation enacted by type of co-operative with each type of co-operative enumerated. 
The functions of the various types of co-operatives are as follows: Rural and Producer Societies assist producers in conducting their operations and in marketing products. Trading Societies carry on business, trade or industry for the benefit of members. Community Settlement Societies operate to acquire land or settle or retain persons thereon and to provide any common service or benefit. Community Advancement Societies provide any community service (e.g. water, gas, electricity, transport, recreation, etc.). Building Societies assist members to acquire homes or other fixed property. Credit Unions or Co-operative Credit Associations arrange loans to members. Investment Societies enable members to combine to secure shares in companies or businesses or to invest in securities. Friendly Societies provide sickness and funeral benefits to members. Mutual Buying Groups operate for collective buying purposes. Societies of the same kind may combine to form co-operative associations and associations of all kinds may form unions of associations. 
The Commonwealth Statistician, for statistical purposes, approaches the principal co-operatives listed in Tables 1 to 7 and, in his publications, reclassifies the co-operatives to the broad categories shown in the appended Table No. 8. 
The Australian Government has not made any grants to co-operatives in either the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory since 2 December 1972. In respect of the Northern Territory no advances, either repayable or otherwise, have been afforded to these societies. As I announced in my 1973 Budget Speech, the Government has decided to cease providing advances to A.C.T. permanent building societies for on-lending to eligible borrowers on first mortage. However, $1.1 million was provided in 1973-74 to enable these societies to honour outstanding loan commitments as at 30 June 1973. For the period 2 December 1972 to 30 June 1974, five permanent building societies have received a total of $6,317,120 by way of loans repayable over 31 years at  6Vt%  per annum. This is made up as follows- 
I have no such evidence but for the benefit of the questioner I will read 2 cables that I received today from London on this matter. The first reads: 
Rumours of an Australian devaluation have been circulating in Britain for months. For this reason the latest wave of rumours caused only a slight ripple in the Australian sector of the London Stock Exchange. Brokers said that generally prices of Australian shares had been adjusted to take account of such a possibility but they said that the devaluation rumours served to reinforce a slight firming tendency in Australian mining shares today. Investors considered that mining shares might be a better prospect now as companies could earn more Australian dollars from mineral exports but on the other hand mining companies had lost some tax concessions in the recent Australian Budget brokers pointed out. 
The other cable reads: 
Rumours . . . 
I repeat ' rumours '. One cannot be responsible for rumours. I do not think anybody has been punting on a revaluation of the Australian currency in recent times. The whole contemplation has been about a possible devaluation. As I indicated, rumours have been circulating in Britain for months. The second cable read: 
Rumours of an imminent devaluation caused a flurry of selling on the foreign exchange market in London today. The rumours spread rapidly through financial circles following a Melbourne newspaper report. 
I sometimes wonder how a journalist sees his job as a journalist against what might be called important national interests. I have no admiration whatever for those who, knowing that something is secret, will take advantage of a few hours for one day's story. I am sure that all honourable members opposite who were Ministers in the past have had the experience of certain things which they would not like to have had divulged in fact being divulged before they should have been. The cable continues: 
The rumours spread rapidly through financial circles following a Melbourne newspaper report that the Government had decided on a 12 per cent devaluation. One Australian bank said that trading was normal until late this afternoon, when there was a sudden burst of selling activity. 
I hope honourable members opposite will listen to what follows. The cable goes on: 
Much of the selling pressure came from international commodity and commercial quarters with links in Australia. Banks continued to maintain fairly stable rates for the Australian dollar despite the selling wave. One bank spokesman said that transactions went through immediately in the case of transactions which were for 'regular customers' or which were considered to arise out of 'genuine business*. In the case of 'speculative' moves, the bank offered to complete the transactions tomorrow, he said. 
-I table the whole of the document. I resent the suggestion that I am giving only selected parts. You can have the document. 
I am aware of the statistical information which the honourable gentleman has quoted. I will be participating today with some of my Party colleagues in a meeting at which we hope, perhaps, to look at some of the structural details of that tax. 
-I am pleased to be able to inform the honourable member that the Superannuation Board, in whose hands the administration of the Fund is, expects that the payment to eligible pensioners will be made first in October. That is a sum of over $18m with accumulations. It expects that payment of the remaining three-quarters or so to eligible contributors will be made before the end of this year. 
-I think that the honourable member is aware that on 18 June of this year I released the report of the actuaries,  Mr Melville  and Professor Pollard, on the proposals for a new superannuation scheme. Since then I have received hundreds of submissions on the report and in August I saw a deputation led by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations representing about 200,000 contributors and pensioners under the scheme. I have prepared documentation for the consideration of the Government and I expect that the matter will be considered as soon as practicable. 
-I move: 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to borrowings by Australia not exceeding the equivalent of US$19,000,000 ($A14.5 million) to assist the Australian National Airlines Commission (TAA) in financing the purchase of its fifth and sixth Boeing 727 jet aircraft, spare parts and related equipment at an estimated cost of approximately US$24.5 million ($18.72 million). The fifth aircraft is due to be delivered in November 1974 and the sixth in April 1975. This is the eleventh occasion on which Parliament has been asked to approve overseas borrowings on behalf of TAA. The last occasion was the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Act 1972 which approved borrowings of up to US$34 million for the purchase of the first four Boeing 727 aircraft. On some previous occasions when legislation has been introduced for borrowings to assist in the purchase of new aircraft by TAA the loan agreements have already been signed but have usually been conditional on appropriate legislative authority being given later. On this occasion, borrowing arrangements for the purchase of the aircraft have not been finalised at this stage. These borrowings on behalf of TAA are specialised financing arrangements related to the particular requirements of the airline for the purchase of aircraft overseas and are in a different category from other borrowings by Australia overseas. 
Normally, a central element in the financing arrangements is the participation in them by the Export-Import Bank of the United States, which specialises in providing credit on terms tailored to assist in financing the purchase of such items of capital equipment as Boeing 727 aircraft. On this occasion, however, Export-Import Bank finance is not available as firm orders for these aircraft were placed before it was decided recently to revert to making use of overseas sources of finance for the purchase of capital equipment by Australian Government transport authorities. Accordingly, in the first instance, offers will be sought for these funds from overseas sources with established connections with the Australian Government. 
Other arrangements for the loans will be similar to those approved by Parliament for previous loans for Qantas and TAA in recent years. In particular, the Australian Government will be the borrower in the first place, and the proceeds will be made available to TAA on terms and conditions to be determined by the Treasurer pursuant to clause 7 of the Bill. These terms and conditions will be identical with those under which the Australian Government itself borrows the money. The airline will be required to meet all charges under the loan agreements. Consequently, the Australian Government will, as usual, assume the function of an intermediary in these arrangements. The detailed terms and conditions of each of the loans to be arranged will be subject to approval by the Loan Council. The amount to be borrowed is included in the Australian Government's loan program 1974-75 approved by the Loan Council in June 1 974. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to borrowings by Australia not exceeding the equivalent of US$91 m (A$69.5m) to assist Qantas Airways Limited in financing the purchase of its ninth, tenth and eleventh Boeing 747 jet aircraft, spare parts and related equipment at an estimated cost of approximately US$1 14.5m (A$87.5m). The aircraft are due to be delivered in October 1974, May 1975 and November 1975, respectively. 
Australia has already arranged loans totalling US$164m (A$ 125.3m) to assist Qantas in financing the purchase of its first 6 Boeing 747 aircraft. These loans were approved by the Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1968, the Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1971, and Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Act (No. 2) 1971 and the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1972. The borrowings arranged under the authority of the last Act were applied to the financing of the sixth aircraft. The seventh and eighth aircraft were financed by Qantas from its own internal resources. 
The overseas borrowings on behalf of Qantas are specialised financing arrangements related to the particular requirements of the airline for the purchase of aircraft overseas and are in a different category from other borrowings by Australia overseas. A central element in the financing arrangements has been the participation in them by the Export-Import Bank of the United States of America, which specialises in providing credit on terms tailored to assist in financing the purchase of such items of capital equipment as Boeing 747 aircraft. The ExportImport Bank has agreed to finance 30 per cent of the cost of the tenth aircraft and has agreed to Australia obtaining finance for a further 10 per cent of the cost from the Private Export Funding Corporation, an Export-Import Bank guaranteed source sponsored jointly by the United States Government and leading United States commercial banks. It is hoped that a similar commitment will be available for the eleventh aircraft. The current lending terms of the Bank for aircraft finance are interest at the rate of 7 per cent per annum with repayments over the last 5 years of a 10-year period which commences on the delivery date of the aircraft. These terms are, however, currently under review by the bank and they may be less favourable for future loans. 
Since a firm order for aircraft No. 9 was placed before it was decided recently to revert to making use of overseas sources of finance for the purchase of capital equipment by Australian Government transport authorities. Finance from the Export-Import Bank is not available. Offers have been sought for this finance and negotiations are currently taking place. Other arrangements for the loans will be similar to those approved by Parliament for previous loans for Qantas and TAA in recent years. In particular, the Australian Government will be the borrower in the first place, and the proceeds will be made available to Qantas on terms and conditions to be determined by the Treasurer pursuant to clause 8 of the Bill. These terms and conditions will be identical with those under which the Australian Government itself borrows the money. The airline will be required to meet all charges under the loan agreements. Consequently, the Australian Government will, as usual, assume the function of an intermediary in these arrangements. The detailed terms and conditions of each of the loans to be arranged will be subject to approval by the Loan Council. The amount to be borrowed is included in the Australian Government's loan program for 1974-75 approved by the Loan Council in June 1974. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The Government's scheme to allow income tax deductions, subject to an income test, for home mortgage interest will have effect from 1 July 1974. Details of the scheme will be announced when the legislation to authorise the scheme is introduced in the forthcoming Budget sittings. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following schedule provides details of the purposes for which the Treasury has used management consultant firms in the last 12 months and the names of the firms used. The total cost for the services provided was $9,86 1 . 
In replying to the honourable gentleman's questions I would like first to say briefly that there seems to me to have been a lot of confusion surrounding the introduction of the system of the credit card. I emphasise that the initial arrangements for the scheme were made as far as back as July 1972 when the previous 
Government consented in principle to the utilisation of this service. I indicate that the card is what it says it is. It is a bank credit card, an extension if you like of the use of a cheque account, able to be used only by somebody who already has a bank account. I must suggest that I feel there has been a certain ham-handedness on the part of the banks in the way they have sent the documents to those people who purport to be their clients. 
Turning to the specific questions asked by the honourable gentleman, I do not believe there is justification for the view that bank credit cards will have an adverse effect of financial liquidity. The total amount outstanding under the Bankcard credit scheme is expected to grow only very slowly and to account for an insignificant proportion of lending by the trading banks. In answer to the second question, as only a relatively insignificant amount will be involved the scheme will not result in funds being diverted by the banks from housing construction to finance the new credit scheme. Moreover, to some extent it will simply replace other forms of consumer credit. The scheme is not expected to have any effect on interest rates generally. Bank interest rates on loans up to $50,000 are of course already subject to official control. 
I am not answering you. I am answering my colleague. Participation in the scheme will bring benefits as well as costs to merchants using it. A merchant electing to join the scheme will do so after weighing the benefits, actual and potential, against the service charged. His ability to pass on any net cost in the form of higher prices will depend upon the degree of competition in that sector of business. Overseas studies of relevant schemes do not support the contention that the introduction of such a scheme leads to increased prices. 
The answer to the first question is no, and the second question needs no answer. 
-For the benefit of the honourable member and the House, I inform them that I am proposing to change the tax so that it will apply only on taxable incomes in excess of $5,000. 
I do not know how many letters I have received on this subject. In this House last year I answered a question asked of me by the then honourable member for Henty. There is no proposal to vary the provisions about lump sum payments. Candidly, I do not know who the lie maker is who keeps circulating every now and again, because he has got nothing else to do, the story that there is an intent to alter the S per cent provision. There is no such intent. 
I say to my friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that that speech was scarcely his finest quarter hour. To get this matter into perspective, the education allowance that had been allowed lost to the revenue in the last financial year a sum of $130m. The reduction proposed will reduce that sum from $130m to $100m. The allowance is intended only to cover fees, fares, books and uniforms. My friend made reference to the handicapped children. This Government in this same Budget has acknowledged what no one else has ever acknowledged; it is making a special weekly payment of $10 a week for handicapped children. It introduced the isolated children's allowance, which could have been introduced by the previous Government. In aggregate on education in Australia the Commonwealth and the States together provide a sum of something like $2,600m, and the honourable member for Moreton has gone into agonies about a variation of $30m. 
The taxation system is not the best method by which to try to do some of the things that governments have sought to do in the past by way of the education allowance. If I may say so, I think its introduction was typical of the scrappy sort of way in which the previous Government faced up to social problems. I concede his point that it costs more than $150 to look after a child. But the allowance was never envisaged to cover the looking after of a child. I repeat that it was to cover, first, fees. This Government has gone further than any other government in the abolition of fees generally. The allowance was to cover also fares. In a proper system, there would be no fares for children going to school. Transport would be provided at public expense. In some cases for children in country areas that is now the position. The allowance thirdly was to cover books. I hope again that we will get to the day when books also will be free or nearly so in our education system. The final item it was designed to cover was uniforms. I am pleased to see that in some of the more enlightened schools uniforms are no longer insisted upon. Be that as it may, the magnitude of the reduction is comparatively small. 
I take the point that anybody who did get the advantage of the allowance up to $400 no doubt is aggrieved by what has been done. But in any government at any time in any community a choice must be made between the directions in which to go and the resources available to carry out the aims. If the honourable gentleman had looked more carefully at the Budget he would have found that this year it provided for almost a doubling in the Commonwealth's expenditure on education. The sum is $ 1,534.7m as against $860. lm in the previous financial year. Again, we have provided sums for pre-school and child care centres of a magnitude of some $70m or $80m in this Budget. The inequity, if you like, of providing for the sorts of things that the taxation concession does is ground on which the honourable gentleman scarcely trod at all. With his indulgence, I would like to incorporate in Hansard a table which shows the average reduction for education expenses per child by grade of taxpayer 's net income for the financial year 197 1-72. It is a single page table. 

<graphic href="091131197410164_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. That shows the various ranges of income and the average amount that was claimed under each head. I accept the point that averages are not always the revealers of the whole truth. They conceal some things, but, nevertheless, the gravamen is there. In terms of what can be claimed for fees, fares, books and uniforms, the majority of Australian taxpayers claimed far less than the proposed allowance of $150. Those who claimed - 
Again, this Government has provided more sums of money than any other government for the non-government schools. If honourable gentlemen opposite again look at the Budget they will find that in this area this year it provides $120m as against $70m in the previous financial year. Those who believe that they are foregoing $30m at least should weigh against that an increase of $50m in the same provision and see that it is allocated by need and not by the income of the parent. That is what is wrong with the taxation concession as a means of meeting some of these needs. 
I take a further point raised by my friend. Again, I would have liked to have gone further than we did in the restructuring of taxation this year. But I believe that this action must wait until the next Budget. An ossified pattern cannot suddenly be changed in a very short space of time. I commend to every member of the House the interim report of the Asprey Committee and also the series of documents that I have had printed almost each week for the last 5 weeks and which deal with specific technical aspects of tax reform in Australia- 
It is not easy suddenly in a single span of time to go from a system that is imperfect to what one would think is a better system. At least we trod along that road on this occasion. We have begun with the provision of relief to low income families. There are many families which will not avail themselves of the education tax allowance because their incomes will be tax free. Surely that was the way that we ought to have risen to this need as the previous Government should have done in the many years that it was in office. The former Government permitted the system under which a person who was in the poverty area in terms of the findings of the poverty inquiry and who had dependants and a non-working wife continued to pay tax when that person ought not to have been paying tax at all. At least this Government and this Budget have allowed me to begin that kind of tax reform. In order to do that, we have introduced a form of rebate. 
I do not think that it is easy to make a categorical assertion that a system of rebates is necessarily better than any other system. These are technical problems which require a great deal of examination. At least the Asprey Committee and the documentation associated with it will throw a great deal more light on that aspect in the future. But to have all these tears of woe shed about a sum of $30m in relation to a total advantage of $130m and a total expenditure of $2,600m to my mind shows how narrow still are the perspectives of those who were formerly the Government of Australia and who had 23 years with no impediment in the other place to do the sorts of things which they now pick one by one when they get a few letters from constituents. One cannot bow to every moan that one gets in a letter; nor has one always the time to write and say: 'Well, there are some blessings that you have not counted as well as the things which you claim you are now missing'. We ought to have better sights than that. 
I at least believed that my friend would have aimed far higher than he did in this attack. He framed the matter for discussion as one of public importance originally, I think, on what he called the indecision in the Caucus. The Caucus stuck to what was set out in the Budget. For one who writes so regularly on a weekly basis on a daily newspaper, he should not take for truth every word that he sees in it. I suggest that there is too much of rumour and too much keyhole reporting in this area. I say that to the people who report here in the Press Gallery. What we want, in this House are people who are able to come to the open door. But if they are not going to come to the open door, at least we ought to get a door with a dozen keyholes instead of one so that more people will perhaps have more stories. I would say that reporting in Australia has never been at a lower ebb than it has in the past 12 months. I can never see any justification for someone attempting by illicit means to get in advance what is to become public information. 
It is not the job of the Press. The Press ought to recognise occasionally that there is such a thing as ethics. I think too infrequently it does and that sometimes scribblers who put thennames to things would be far better anonymous than named. 
As far as this taxation allowance is concerned, the Labor Party took the view that the best means to provide more adequately via the public purse for a total expenditure on education was not by the devious and inequitable method of taxation concessions. I believe that we have moved in the right direction. I think that it is far better that a community properly provides an adequate health service, properly provides adequate retirement services or properly provides an adequate education system than allow some of the expenditure via taxation concessions which, however they are worked, can have only the inevitable result of meaning more to the person on the higher income than to the person on the lower income. 
-It is true, and I suggest that if the honourable member read some of the documentation a little more clearly even he may see the light. Be that as it may, I think the honourable member for Moreton ought to have withdrawn his urgency motion when he heard the Caucus decision. He ought not to have heard it, but via the various relays that are available here he did hear it. At least I confirm it now: That the Budget is not being changed, that the decisive action that was taken by the Cabinet is being pursued and the concession is to be reduced from $400 to $150. At least everybody knows that now, and I hope that those who feel aggrieved might count the total situation as far as the provision of education is concerned. There is a higher proportion of the nation's resources than ever before being devoted to education at all its levels. There are less fees payable now in the system than were ever payable before. We have given an extension in the direction of handicapped and isolated children and given it by making direct payments to those who have the circumstantial need, not relating them by accident to the need in association with the income of the parent. Honourable members, I leave it at that. I do not think the case really needed any defence but I hope I have put on record some of the facts and some of the reasoning behind the Government's decision. 
The honourable member has put a lot of technical information into a single question. All I suggest is that we thought it prudent to announce the particular date from which this tax will operate, that is, the valuation day. That is the single, most essential matter to be determined. I issued a memorandum which explained broadly enough the areas in which the tax is to operate. It indicated that the Bill in its final form had not yet been drawn, and the various matters that the honourable member has mentioned in his question are under consideration. 
-I agree that there is a serious deficiency in new investment in the Australian economy. As I tried to suggest at the weekend, in what is described as a mixed economy, and the Australian economy is that - 
In some respects it can get mixed up if we do not face up to realities. Threequarters of the total activity in Australia is still in what is described as the private sector and approximately one-quarter is in the public sector. Unless there is new investment and the creation of new capacity in the private sector it is unlikely that we will be able to absorb into active employment all those people who will seek it, including those who are currently unemployed. The question, of why private fixed investment is dampened at the moment is, I think, one that requires serious examination. Candidly I do not think that we have very much to be proud about in this country as far as fixed capital investment over the last 10 or 1 5 years is concerned. We have had one of the lowest growth rates- that is, per capita improvement- of any of the Western countries, taking the last 1 0 or 1 5 years as an example. 
Last year- to the end of June 1974- was one of the best years per capita for many years, but the decline was becoming evident in the March and June quarters of that year. I suggest that the investment allowance is not necessarily the answer to the problem. The problem has to do with what is called the real return on capital employed. I have been described over the weekend as a King Canute. I think that those who use that example forget the historically significant fact that King Canute did not believe that he could turn back the tide. He did what he did in order to draw the attention of his courtiers to the realities of the situation. I suggest that instead of attempting to score points in this House every time a particular index reacts unfavourably we ought to get down to examining the structural problems in the Australian economy. 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is no. If he looks carefully he will find that the reason for the introduction of the payment of quarterly instalments was that companies- like the majority of people who pay tax on a pay as you earn basis- should pay their tax literally as it accrues rather than a year later after having had the use of the money that ought to be in tax coffers free of interest. I think it is indpendent of the question of general liquidity. 
I would prefer that the honourable gentleman put that question on notice in order that I may give a considered reply to it. I think it would have been noted that in the 1973-74 Budget when we indicated the intention to bring the private company rate up to the public company rate we did make a variation in the formula for undistributed profits. I am prepared to have a look at the matter and I would suggest that I give a detailed written reply. 
I would have appreciated the efforts of the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  a little more if he had devoted less time to the polemics at the beginning and made rather less indigestible the rag bag of propositions that he brought forward at the end of his speech. It seemed to me that he was indicating that he saw the economy at the moment as being in a state of declining activity and accelerating inflation. One of the solutions that he seemed to bring forward for that state was to cut down on Government activity and to reduce taxation and thereby, I would think, to increase purchasing power at the same time. Those proposals do not seem to me to add up to a sensible prescription. 
I would appreciate it a little more if those on the Opposition side who suggest that Federal or Australian Government expenditure is excessive indicated the directions in which they think the excess lies. They seem to me at times simultaneously to be asking for expenditure in some directions to be increased. I do not think that they give sufficient attention to the anatomy of spending at the Government level in Australia. They do not seem to acknowledge how much the Australian Government is the collector of taxes, the fruits of which are distributed to the States for their activities. In the area of public works, for instance, far more is carried out at the State level than at the Federal level. I receive interminable requests from individual members as to why we are not giving more to the States or local authorities to enable them to carry on their public works programs. 
What has to be acknowledged is that in any economy a sensible balance has to be struck between consumption on the one hand and investment on the other. There has to be an acknowledgment that there is a role for both the private sector and the public sector in the economy, as I endeavoured to indicate in answer to a question this morning. Approximately three-quarters of the money that is spent in the Australian economy is still spent in die private sector; only about one-quarter is spent in the public sector. Even though we at this level of government are responsible for collecting the majority of what is spent in the public sector, we are not the direct spenders. The direct spenders are the States. How does one arrive at a reasonable balance between these two? In the private sector, the greatest single source of demand is those who are employees. Sometimes the paradox exists that whilst wages in some respects can be looked upon as a cost of production they are also at the same time a source of consumer expenditure. There are many more rigidities in an economy than some people are prepared to allow for. We have taken a series of measures in recent times in the direction of injecting more credit into the economy. The honourable gentleman refers to releases from the statutory reserve deposits. There have been successive releases from the statutory reserve deposits down to the point where they are now something less than 5 per cent of the original accumulation - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! I wish to make one comment at this stage. The Chair will be quite firm on this aspect. The matter under discussion is an important one. It deals with the economy. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition was heard in comparative silence. I intend to see that the same courtesy is extended to all other speakers on this matter. 

-The question of inflation-I have said this more than once before in this place- is not only a question of prices but of prices and incomes. One would think it was at times when one hears the quarterly bleatings about the consumer price index. Multiplying the quarterly index figures by four is a very happy game for those who indulge in it, but it offers no very sensible solution to the problem. 
Over the weekend I endeavoured to suggest that there has to be some accommodation between those who are responsible for fixing prices and those who are responsible for seeking wage increases. If honourable members liked, we could have a sort of chicken and egg argument on the basis that wage earners seek increases in their wages because prices have already gone up and those who are responsible for setting prices then say that they must put their prices up because the wages that they must pay have increased. The figures up to end the end of June 1974- that is the last date at which figures for a full year are available- show that during that year prices as measured by the consumer price index rose by about 14.3 per cent. In the same period, average weekely earnings overall increased by 25 per cent, but average weekly earnings in respect of the female component of the work force increased by as much as 35 per cent. This reflects the working through in the economy of the principle of equal pay for equal work. I do not think anybody objects to the adoption of that as a principle. 
It ought to be evident that there are some wage earners in the community whose incomes have increased faster than have prices. As a corollary, the likelihood is that there are some wage earners whose share did not increase. There are people in other sectors of the economy who obviously were not able to recoup their incomes fast enough to allow for the effects of inflation. Occasionally we have to stop and examine the elements in the social equation. I suggest that the share of some wage earners- perhaps because they are in certain sorts of strategic sections in the economy where those who pay the wages are still capable of increasing the prices- rose faster and some prices rose faster than did the average. Some further down the scale did not do as well. Surely a man who is in employment is in a far better position than a person who is unemployed. I endeavoured at the weekend to ask the trade union movement whether it should be considering whether maybe some people are out of work because those who are in work are being paid more now than will enable industry marginally to take on another man. 
I think there are some difficulties in doing so, as the honourable gentleman ought to appreciate. The members of his Party, after all, are the apostles of what is called the free market system. The free market system implies competition and freedom to set prices in a competitive market. We in the Labor movement believe in the right of trade unions to seek higher wages through proper bargaining processes. I am saying that it is easier for some price groups to pass on prices and easier for some sections of the trade union movement to get higher wages than it is for other elements in the economy. I instance the situation of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. After all, nobody need underline the significance of that undertaking as a great and the only steel producing unit in the Australian economy. Yet, in terms of its operations, it can get more money in the short term money market for any surplus funds it has than it gets as a return on capital employed. If honourable gentlemen opposite would suggest some self-denying ordinance by which everybody would take a lesser return as interest on their savings we might get somewhere. We have had the spectacle recently of - 
We refused to accept those. That is a moral contribution rather than an acknowledgment of the real problems. In the mixed economy, as we have it, it is undoubtedly true that we will not get real growth- that is, an increase in per capita production- unless there is a significant increase in what is called fixed private capital investment. As I said earlier this morning, that has been a sluggard for Australia during the last 10 or 15 years. 
It is easy, of course, when in opposition, to attribute the current ills to those who are now in government. I simply draw the analogy that the problems are much the same in the United States of America, which has a different sort of government from ours. The problems are similar in the United Kingdom which has oscillated between the 2 governments twice in the last 4 years. So, who is responsible? Members of the Opposition think that just because we happen to be in power all the fault is ours and none of the responsibility lies with them, and they come along with these sorts of airy fairy motions and make all the suggestions that we should now do what they did not do in the their 20 years of unimpeded occupation of the treasury bench, with nobody in that funny place upstairs to knock back what they wanted to do. Rather than talk about a supplementary Budget I would appreciate the cooperation of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to get the present Budget through. At least that would enable us to get on with some expenditures that we cannot legally encompass until after 1 December because we have Supply at this stage only to the end of November. 
I had to take some unprecedented action to help the wool industry by finding another $150m. I do not find the honourable gentlemen on the front bench opposite querying that sort of Government expenditure. My colleague the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has arranged for a further $75m to be spent in conjunction with the States on housing. Again I do not think there can be any objection to that as an initiative. Occasionally at least when initiatives have been taken we ought to be given credit. But equally, I think, given the nature of the economy through which we work, there are lags in the application of policy between the taking of an initiative and getting the results. That would be just as true if members opposite were in government. We have this sort of petty scoring by the raising of these types of matters. I refuse to make any more comments now on the cost of living. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, on the other hand, has difficulty in refraining from taking every opportunity, but I do not think it gets us any closer to an abatement of inflation. Unless we recognise that it is a question of wage earners and price makers getting together in some sort of sensible debate as to how far we can move in either direction I do not think urgency motions of this kind will add any light to the situation. I think it is about the fourth time now that in one form or another I have had to answer this sort of thing. 
In closing this debate, I thank the large number of honourable members who have participated in this discussion. The number has been greater than I have known in most times to have spoken on Treasury estimates. I do not intend to answer in detail the various speakers as the consideration of these estimates was used as an opportunity, I guess, for honourable members to air their views about the economy rather than to deal specifically with the estimates for the Treasury, which is what the debate is supposed to be about. However, I will take note of some of the suggestions that have been mentioned. 
I certainly have received a diversity of suggestions. I was interested to hear that the last  speaker  is not one who favours a reduction of government expenditure. There are still others who do and as yet have not specified where. At least the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was frank in his speech. He believed that we ought to have not a smaller but a larger deficit, and that for the reasons which he gave. 
I wish to say something on one or two specific matters. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  referred to the structure of the consumer price index. This matter is no longer within my jurisdiction; it has been transferred to the administration of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  But I will take note of his suggestions that there are faults in the index. I think there are faults in the index and a great many faults in suggesting that whatever percentage of inflation that index reflects can necessarily be translated over the economy as a whole. 
I believe that one thing which has to happen in most Western democratic industrialised systems is that those on low levels of income must have their standards raised relatively and that, unless there is an increase in the total size of the national income, if there is an increase going to those on lower levels, obviously there must be some sacrifice on the part of those at higher levels. To a great extent, the framing of the Budget took that factor into account. 
The Budget paid more attention to lowering taxation specifically from the bottom upwards. It would seem to me that until we can get more confidence in the area of fixed private capital investment it will be difficult to get an increase in the total cake in Australia. I do not believe that is a problem peculiar to Australia. As I said this morning, similar observations have been made in the United States and the United Kingdom. Also, some doubt is being cast on the methods that we have of assessing via taxation what are true levels of profit in an inflationary era. This problem is not an easy one to which to obtain simple solutions. Sometimes I wish these matters were discussed here a little more objectively and a little less polemically than they are. 
One matter to which I wish to draw attention is that raised by my colleague, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  It deals with the question of taxation on the compensation payments that have been made available for those unfortunate victims of thalidomide. Insofar as sums payable in compensation are in the form of lump sums, they are not subject to tax. It seems uncertain at this point whether some other forms of payment may be subject to tax unless the income tax law is altered. My colleague, the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  has written to me in this matter. Sometimes those curious forms of popular democracy known as 'talk-backs' seem to suggest that they are the only ones who ever consider this matter. I assure honourable members on both sides of the Committee that we have had this subject under review. My colleague has written to me. We have to ascertain what the nature of the payments is. 
Insofar as the law operates- it is not a law that I made; it is a law inherited- if it is necessary to make some change to it in order that these payments, if they are subject to taxation, will be exempted from taxation. I give an assurance that the matter will be looked at. I hope that all sections will co-operate in the passage of any necessary legislation. Insofar as compensation payments are made, I think it ought to be generally acknowledged that lump sum payments are not taxable but regular weekly payments are treated as income. That has been the historical treatment of those sorts of payments. The case under consideration perhaps is unusual as it represents a unique and unfortunate set of circumstances. I give the assurance that the matter will be looked at compassionately and that the strict letter of the law will not necessarily deter some flexibility in this matter. I thank honourable members for their participation in the debate. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $62,764,000. 
Department of Customs and Excise 
Proposed expenditure, $52,02 1 ,000. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment in 1974-75 of special grants of $24.75m to Queensland and $23.5m to South Australia. These payments are in accordance with the recommendations of the Grants Commission contained in its Forty-first Report on Special Assistance for States, which has been tabled by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The Bill also seeks the usual authority for payment of advances to the 2 States in the early months of 1975-76, pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations for that year and enactment of legislation to provide for the grants to be paid in that year. The Australian Government makes special grants to certain of the States to compensate them for such factors as lower capacity to raise revenue from their own resources and higher costs in providing government services of a standard similar to those in the financially stronger States. 
When special grants were first paid they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance paid to the financially weaker States for this purpose. For many years now, however, the main way in which special compensatory assistance has been provided has been through the higher per capita financial assistance grants paid to the 4 less populous States. The financial assistance grants are, of course, the main general revenue grants to the States. The special grants may, therefore, be regarded as supplementing the financial assistance grants, and as having the special characteristic of being independently as well as expertly assessed by the Grants Commission. In arriving at its recommendations, the Grants Commission makes an assessment of the 'financial needs' of the claimant States. To quantify these needs, the Commission compares in detail the finances of each claimant State with those of New South Wales and Victoria, taking into account differences in revenue-raising capacity and differences in the cost of providing comparable services. 
This year, the Commission has used a new method for assessing the appropriate amounts of special grants and for presenting its results. This matter is referred to in detail in paragraphs 3.16 through 3.30 of its report. Very briefly, however, this new method, which the Australian Treasury has been advocating for some years, involves a more direct and, it is believed, more easily understood approach to the assessment of the grants. The new method is also consistent with that adopted by the Commission in reporting on claims for financial assistance by local governing bodies. I should mention, however, that this change in method does not reflect any change in the basic principles on which the Commission operates. They remain as first enunciated in the Commission's Third Report. Nor has the change in method affected the size of the grants. It is, nevertheless, an important development in the 
Commission's work, and one which I warmly welcome. The Commission has continued to refine and improve its procedures in other respects; these are referred to in its report and I shall not attempt to summarise them here. 
The recommendations of the Grants Commission for payment of special grants consist of 2 parts. One part is based on a preliminary estimate of the claimant State's financial need in the current financial year, and is treated as an advance payment subject to adjustment 2 years later when the Commission has compared in detail the finances of the claimant and standard States. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance payment made 2 years earlier and is known as the completion payment. This adjustment may be positive or negative and therefore may result in the final grant in respect of that year being higher or lower than the original advance payment. 
The Commission has recommended that an advance payment of $15m be made to Queensland in 1974-75- an increase of 50 per cent on that made for 1973-74- and that a completion payment of $9. 75m be paid to the State in respect of 1972-73. For South Australia, the Commission has recommended the payment of special grants totalling $23. 5m, made up of an advance payment of $15m for 1974-75- the same amount as in 1973-74- and a completion payment of $8.5m in respect of 1972-73. The 1974-75 advance grants to each of the 2 States will, of course, be subject to adjustment, if necessary, in 1976-77. 
Since I presented a similar Bill last year, Tasmania, which had applied continuously for special grants on the recommendation of the Commission from 1934-35 to 1973-74, has withdrawn from the special grants system following the Australian Government's agreement to pay the State an additional financial assistance grant of $ 1 5m in 1 974-75, to be built into the ' base ' for purposes of calculating the State's formula grants in 1975-76 and subsequent years. This increase in the State's financial assistance grant has been provided for in the States Grants Bill 1974, which has now been passed by both Houses. In accordance with arrangements agreed between the Australian and Tasmanian Governments, the Grants Commission has not recommended a completion payment in respect of the advance grant paid to the State in 1972-73 and has agreed not to recommend a completion payment next year in respect of 1973-74; as a consequence, there is no provision for a payment to Tasmania in this Bill. 
Finally, I wish to take this opportunity to refer to the retirement of the  Chairman  of the Commission,  Sir Leslie  Melville, on 30 September last and wish to place on record my appreciation, as Treasurer, of his services in this and other spheres during a long and most distinguished career.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell will replace  Sir Leslie  as  Chairman  of the Commission. The Commission's recommendations have been adopted by Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should be accepted on this occasion. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Holten)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for a contribution by Australia of up to $60,8 10,811 to the fourth replenishment of the resources of the International Development Association, or IDA as it is commonly called. As most honourable members will be aware, IDA is affiliated with the World Bank. It was set up in 1960 because many less-developed countries were not able, or could not afford to borrow overseas on commercial terms. Indeed, a number of these countries did not even have access to international capital markets because they could not establish a satisfactory credit rating. Moreover, most of them were already burdened with high external debt repayments and had little or no capacity to service additional overseas loans at normal rates of interest with normal terms of repayment. IDA was established with the express purpose of providing loans on concessional terms to such countries. IDA loans, or development credits as they are called, bear no interest and are repayable over 50 years with a 10-year period of grace. A small service charge of threequarters of 1 per cent per annum is levied to cover administrative expenses. 
I would emphasise that, notwithstanding these soft terms, the projects which IDA finances are subject to the same rigorous standards of analysis and appraisal with respect to their economic and social worth and their technical feasibility as the World Bank applies in its own lending operations. In fact, the 2 institutions have a common have made to IDA from time to time and the annual transfers which IDA has received from the World Bank out of the latter 's profits in each year since 1963-64- were almost fully committed by 30 June 1974, making it necessary for IDA to seek additional authority to enter into new commitments after that date. After lengthy negotiations, agreement was eventually reached during the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank group held at Nairobi in September 1973 to the effect that, subject to parliamentary approval in the various countries concerned, an additional US$4,500m would be made available to IDA over a period of 3 or 4 years commencing on 1 July 1974. 1 ask leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table which sets out the prospective contributions to be made to IDA by individual member countries and Switzerland, which has not yet joined IDA, under the Nairobi agreement. 
-I think the honourable gentleman will be aware of the difficulty of any index being suitable for all purposes and the regimen of the consumer price index is certainly continuously under review. It now falls within the jurisdiction of my colleague, the Special Minister of State, and not my own but I will take note of this suggestion and pass it on to him. 
I am aware of the circumstances that the honourable member has described. I would first point out that some protection does exist in matters of this kind under State legislation relating to the maximum interest rates charged by what can be described as money lenders. There also exists a mechanism within my Department to examine specific cases. I would suggest that the honourable member supply me with details of this case and we will see if relief can be obtained. 
As a former Treasurer, the right honourable gentleman should realise that no general assurances can be given about tax provisions. All I ask of him is to point to the present Budget in which no change was made in the situation. What happens in the future with any tax provision is a matter open to review from time to time. 
I am not aware of the specific example which the honourable member gave. I find it a rather curious way to promote the question that he has asked. I am as fully conscious as anybody else of the seriousness of inflation. 
I am well aware of the interest in this particular matter. I suppose there has been more correspondence individually on this matter than on anything else in my purview for a long time. Following the actuary's report representations have been received from the Public Service organisations themselves and also written submissions. I hope that it will be possible to have legislation introduced into the House at the beginning of the 1975 program. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)and(2). 
Grants for research made by the Department of the Treasury in the last 3 years are set out below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of allowing income tax deductions for ambulance charges and subscriptions was considered during the 1974-75 Budget preparations but the Government's expenditure proposals, including those relating to health, and the general income tax reductions announced in the Budget were judged to merit higher priority. 
In the first place the introduction of quarterly payment of company tax is primarily a matter of equity in relation to all taxpayers rather than a question of liquidity. As the honourable gentleman knows a profit has actually been earned 9 months or more before the assessment is issued. Therefore this requirement will put companies on the same footing as individuals who come under the pay-as-you-earn system of taxation. The week they receive income is the week that tax is taken out. This practice has been extended to the payment of provisional tax on other than corporate incomes for many years now. 
It was thought equitable to require company or corporate tax to be paid in advance quarterly. I submit it is a matter of equity and not liquidity. Nevertheless, if there are cases where hardship is involved I am prepared to look at each case on its merits. 
More than one question was asked by the right honourable member. The first one asked was in relation to the tax deductibility of mortgage interest payments on a PA YE basis. I do not think anybody should deny that some technical problems are involved in such a scheme. Nevertheless, if it is at all feasible to make the provision on a weekly basis in some cases, I have instructed my officers to prepare the necessary mechanisms. When that is done I will make a full statement on the situation. It is not as easy as it is in some other cases. The only deductions really made on the PA YE basis are for dependants and a sort of arbitrary allowance of $60 or $70 over and above that. Basically, they are amounts that are the same for all taxpayers and there is no difficulty in incorporating them in a schedule. But there is some difficulty about a deduction that varies according to the income and may, in some cases, be shared over 2 incomes. Acknowledging all those details, at least I am endeavouring to have the proposal incorporated if at all possible. 
-If the right honourable gentleman can make a sensible suggestion about reducing interest rates, I will be willing to listen to him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Treasury officers have examined the 'Extra Cash Income Plan' policy being offered by Oak Insurance Limited. In considering the advertisements of the company, and the claims made in them, the following points might be noted with regard to the company and the insurance policy that it is offering: 
the company has complied with the deposit provisions of the Insurance ( Deposits) Act 1 932- 1 973; 
the type of cover offered by the company is essentially an income supplement sickness and accident policy. It provides cover against loss of income while a person is hospitalised after an accident or for sickness; 
there is no reason to believe that the premium rates being charged are unrealistic, given the restrictive nature of the policy offered and particularly that the benefits under the policy are payable only when the policy owner is in hospital; 
similar insurance schemes operate in several European countries and in the U.S.A.; 
the Insurance Commissioner's powers under the general insurance legislation are concerned with the solvency of insurance companies. The Commissioner's functions do not include investigations relating to claims in advertisements. 
Department of Foreign Affairs: Green Papers on Policy Issues (Question No. 1175) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although my statement of 17 September 1974 indicated that assets will, for purposes of the proposed capital gains tax, be deemed to have been disposed of by a person immediately prior to death it did not deal with what is to happen when a life interest in a deceased estate comes to an end. That is something about which the Government has yet to take a decision. 
I can see virtues in a rule that the termination of a life interest in a trust not be treated as a disposal of the relevant assets but that, as a protection against assets being held for unduly long periods in trusts free of capital gains tax, a trust be deemed to dispose of its assets every, say, 15 years at their then current fair market value, and be deemed to immediately re-acquire them at that value. 
It may be useful to illustrate how this procedure, if adopted, would apply in the case instanced in your question, assuming the wife survived her husband by 20 years. The trustee would be deemed to have acquired the assets at their value for capital gains tax purposes at the time of the husband's death. Any increase in the value between that time and 15 years later would be subject to capital gains tax at the later time in the hands of the trustee, and the children would be deemed, on their mother's death, to acquire the assets at their value 1 5 years from the husband 's death. If the wife survived for less than 15 years, the children would of course be deemed to acquire the assets at their value for capital gains tax purposes at the time of the father's death. 
-I shall shortly be introducing into this House a Bill which will contain all the amendments to the income tax legislation in respect of the period ending 30 June 197S. There is no variation whatever in the provision about gifts. I want to take the opportunity to say that neither I nor any other Treasurer can give assurances into the future as to whether any particular deduction will remain as it is, be abolished or be varied. It would be completely irresponsible to do so. One can only judge the position as it is now and as it will be to 30 June 1975 by the legislation that will be introduced. There will be no variation in respect of gifts. 
I can give a very brief answer No. 
Companies like any other taxpayers, individuals or businesses, can apply for an extension of time for payment of any liability. I repeat that the quarterly instalment for company tax is legally due and payable, and in many cases the assessments have already issued. As I indicated here the other day, if any company experiences difficulty it can apply for an extension of time which, at the discretion of the Commissioner of Taxation, may or may not be granted with or without penalty. 
The matter is under active consideration. I think I indicated previously that there were some technical difficulties. Compensation paid in a lump sum is not taxable, but traditionally compensation paid on a weekly basis has been taxable. There are some difficulties in isolating one particular occurrence. I have indicated to the House that I have every sympathy with that particular case and I have undertaken investigation of it in the Department. I shall shortly be receiving a deputation from the trust of which I think  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is the  chairman.  I hope that after that meeting it will be possible to make a statement. 
I agree with one statement by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Every member on both sides of the House is committed to the policy of full employment. I think occasionally we should ask ourselves what full employment means. I say that it means a job all the time, but it does not necessarily mean the same job all the time. I disagree with the honourable member for Wannon on another matter. 
-Well, occasionally the honourable member for Hume does not even know the old economics. The honourable member for Wannon suggested that had meat prices not fallen, then the cost of living would have shown an increase of, I think, 26 per cent instead of 20 per cent. What he does not acknowledge is that had it not been for the rise of meat prices in 1973-74, inflation would have been running at only 7 per cent instead of 14 per cent. I think this simply shows that one can use statistics to suit oneself, but it is not facing up to the situation. 
Honourable members on the other side of the House claim to believe in the system called free enterprise or private enterprise. I direct attention to 2 aspects of free enterprise: Production is organised by what are described as market forces and enterprises to varying degrees are able to fix the prices of the things that they sell. They acknowledge also that free enterprise can not exist unless it employs people. Those who are employed are entitled to organise themselves to maintain and to improve their standards of living or their wage. It seems to me that they are the 2 poles of a private enterprise system. In the mixed economy in Australia, it still accounts for something like 75 per cent of total employment. 
I shall cite some figures that show changes that have taken place within the private enterprise system in the distribution of what is produced in the non-farm sector, because the farm sector is subject to volatile influences. In 1969-70, which was when the now Opposition was in government, in the non-farm sector, wages, salaries and supplements as the statistician describes them, were 62.2 per cent of the total. The gross operating surplus was divided in this way: Companies, 18.4 per cent; unincorporated enterprise, 9.9 per cent; and others, which include a number of statistical compilations, 9.S per cent. It can be argued that in 1969-70 the share going to wages and salaries etc. was far too low and that perhaps the share going to companies was far too high. By the June quarter of 1973-74- the last quarter for which figures are available- the wages, salaries and supplements share had increased from 62.2 per cent to 70.2 per cent, an increase of 8 per cent. Companies' share had declined from 18.4 per cent to 13.1 per cent. The share of unincorporated businesses had declined from 9.9 per cent to 8.6 per cent, and the other categories' share had declined from 9.5 per cent to 8.1 per cent. That would suggest that perhaps there has been a squeeze on profits over the last year or two. 
When it suits honourable members opposite, they pose the question: What is a fair day's pay for a fair day's work? Neither side of that syllogism is very easy to define accurately. Equally, there may be arguments as to what is a reasonable rate of return upon capital employed in a particular private enterprise. I suggest that we should get down to looking at that sort of question rather than trying to score according to whether a particular index like the consumer price index has risen. As I said on one occasion, I think the Opposition is almost gleeful when the index shows an increase rather than expressing any concern as to why it has increased. Equally, the Opposition can score a lot from unemployment figures being higher than they were. 
I am not going to try to define it, but I would suggest that the problem will not be solved until employers and employees have sensible discussions with each other and recognise that each is an essential part of the process and that therefore there should be some general agreement as to what is fair on either side. The question of prices involves the question of profits, and private enterprise is not in the game primarily to serve the public, although it will not exist long if it does not. Private enterprise is there basically to earn a profit, and if it finds the rate of profit unsatisfactory then it is not likely to expand its capacity, and I would suggest that that is the big central point at the moment which is being overlooked in the general economic debate. It is not only a question of unemployment, it is a question of unemployment and inflation. And there is a third leg in the economic trianglethe decline in fixed capital investment. In a private enterprise economy, which this economy basically still is- I do not deny that- the majority of employment opportunities can be found only if there is expansion in the private sector. There are a number of limiting factors at the moment as to why the private sector is not expanding. Inflation is one of the central issues, and inflation is bound up with industry. Industry does not regard the wage as the standard of living of the worker so much as it regards it as a cost in production, and again we get caught in this endless debate as to whether, when prices have risen, unless wages rise too the real wage standard has declined. On the other side, if wages have increased then those who employ labour in considerable numbers say that they have to adjust their prices. That is the heart of the economy in Western industrialised societies. 
There is not a definable, reasonable rate of return on profits and there is not a definable fair share of the total that ought to go to wages as against the rest, and until we get down to that kind of fundamental examination I suppose the Opposition every time a particular statistic goes a certain way will use the opportunity to exploit it. But it does not solve the problem. Unemployment in Australia will not decrease this side of 1975 and everybody on both sides of the House knows that. It is humbug to suggest that the numbers are going to come down. As we all know, December and January are the sterile months. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! the honourable gentleman's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
This point is covered in the second reading speech which I am sure the honorable gentleman must have read. I think he concentrated on so many other things that he did not notice it. The second reading speech observes that the detailed terms and conditions by which each of the loans to be arranged will be subject to approval by the Loan Council. The amount to be borrowed is included in the Australian Government's loan program for 1974-75 approved by the Loan Council in June 1974. The honourable gentleman should know that when the loan arrangements are made, the Commonwealth indicates its likely resort to overseas borrowing and it is taken into account in the total program agreed upon. I simply observed that in my second reading speech. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! As the honourable member has already spoken on the third reading he must seek leave if he wishes to speak again. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on the latest relevant income tax statistics, which relate to the 1972-73 income year, it is estimated that the effect on revenue that would have resulted from replacing deductions allowed in that year for contributions to medical and hospital funds by income tax rebates equal to certain percentages of the expenditure would have been as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on the latest relevant statistics, which relate to the 1972-73 income year, it is estimated that the effect on revenue that would have resulted from the replacement of the net amount of deductions allowed for medical, dental, optical, hospital and funeral expenses in that year by income tax rebates equal to certain percentages of the net expenditure would be as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost to income tax revenue, disregarding the gain to revenue from abolition of present dependants allowances, of allowing a flat rebate of income tax of $10 for each dependant is estimated to be about $50m per annum. 
Life Insurance and Superannuation: Tax Deductions  (Question No.  227)  Mr Snedden  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
If the present tax deductions of up to $1,200 for life insurance premiums and superannuation contributions were replaced by flat tax rebates, so that the taxpayer is given a rebate equal to a certain percentage of his expenditure up to $1,200, what would be the estimated cost to the Commonwealth if the percentage of such expenditure rebated was (a) 10 per cent, (b) 20 per cent, (c) 30 per cent, (d) 40 per cent and (e) 50 per cent. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The most recent relevant statistics are in respect of the 1972-73 income year and indicate that if the deductions allowed for life insurance premiums and superannuation contributions of individuals had been replaced by flat rebates equal to specified percentages of the relevant expenditure allowed as deductions in that year, income tax revenue would have been affected as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on the most recent relevant statistics, which relate to the 1972-73 income year, it has been estimated that if the deductions allowed in that year in respect of education of children had been replaced by flat rebates equal to certain percentages of such expenditure up to $400 the effect on income tax revenue would have been as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following reply to the honourable member's question: 
) Monthly variations in the estimated numbers of wage and salary earners in civilian employment (excluding employees in agriculture and private domestic service) for each month from January 1 97 1 to July 1 974 are shown in Table 1 . 
Annual rates of growth in the seasonally adjusted number of civilian employees (excluding those in agriculture and private domestic service) for each quarter since the March quarter 1 970 are shown in Table 2. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) I refer the right honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 41 on 3 October 1974. (Hansard pages 2233-2237.) 
Department of Science: Inter-departmental Committees (Question No. 308) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
If it were possible to provide for the exemption from sales tax of the primary and secondary school materials referred to by the Australian Education Council specifically where they were used in schools, there would be an estimated annual cost to revenue of about $4 million. In fact, however, it would not be practicable to restrict the exemption in that way without such consequences as imposing administrative burdens on shopkeepers or, if the exemption applied only to goods sold for use in schools by bodies dealing exclusively with students, putting shopkeepers at a competitive disadvantage. A wider exemption would, however, increase the total cost to $ 10 million or more. 
Western Australia: Grants from the Community Arts Fund and Festivals Fund (Question No. 964) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) If the Leader of the Opposition would care to explain the basis of his apparently fanciful question, I might be in a position to answer it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following information has been obtained from statistics published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The figures show the proportion of total selected assets in Australia of the statutory funds of life offices accounted for by housing mortgage loans: 
5.9 per cent as at 30 June 1974- the latest date for which figures are available; 
b ) 6.1 per cent- 1 year previously; 
6.8 per cent- 2 years previously; 
7.5 per cent- 3 years previously; and 
8.5 per cent- 5 years previously. 
These figures are percentages based on ledger balances of companies in respect of their statutory funds as at the date for which the information was supplied but do not include adjustments for any accrued or outstanding interest or other items not brought to account as at that date. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) In maintaining a constant effective exchange value for the Australian dollar daily movements in the values of the currencies of Australia's major trading partners are weighted in accordance with the importance of the country concerned in Australia's trade. Appropriate adjustment is then made on a daily basis to the rate for the Australian dollar to offset what would otherwise be a movement in the effective exchange value of the Australian dollar. Details of the weighting system and the foreign currencies involved have not been released. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Only the estimate of gross PAYE income tax proceeds is so based. 
The estimate of gross PAYE income tax proceeds for 1974-75 contained in the Budget documents was prepared on the same basis as comparable estimates in past Budgets. That basis involves estimating the increase in employment during the year, converting that increase to a male-unit basis, and making an assumption about the increase in average weekly earnings per employed male unit (22.5 per cent for 1974-75). 
The estimate of aggregate income tax receipts also includes estimates of the levels of other incomes of individuals and of company taxpayers in the 1973-74 income year which are assessed to tax in 1 974-75. 
Treasury: White Paper on the Economy (Question No. 1356) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Owing to the election in May brought on by the Opposition's decision to refuse Supply, and the consequential late timing of the Budget, the normal mid-year survey of the economy by the Treasury was not prepared this year and the question of its publication does not therefore arise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech contains a Treasury assessment of the economic prospect in 1974-75. The honourable member has available to him also Treasury's 'Round-up of Economic Statistics', which provides an up-to-date assessment of the current economic situation each month. Any other material on the economy which I decide should be published- whether in my own name or the Treasury's- will be made available to the honourable member. I am not prepared, however, to enter into a private arrangement to provide to the honourable member's office, departmental material which is not generally available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Following rumours of speculative dealing in London on the occasion in question, I asked the Reserve Bank to make enquiries. The Reserve Bank has reported to me that rumours did stimulate a flurry of interest in London late on the Tuesday afternoon (London time) but this interest did not appear to have been converted into any significant amount of actual business written. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is altogether too much keyhole conjecture about what official advice is or is supposed to have been. As I indicated in the House recently, such conjecture is all the more likely to be mischievous when it is derived from one rather than from several keyholes and when there seems to be a high degree of selectivity about what is uttered through the keyhole. 
The fact is that officials advise Ministers and their advice is based on frankly stated assumptions. If the day should come when, because of the keyhole activities to which I have referred, such advice can no longer be frankly given, the Government of the day (of whatever political complexion) will be the poorer for that. Ministers take the decisions and take responsibility for them. 
With that background I inform the honourable member that it is my expectation that unemployment will rise in the coming months, especially as school-leavers enter the labour market, before declining later in the financial year. 
I do not think that it is very difficult, taking into account the measures that were announced last night, matching them with the figures which are in the Budget and knowing that some changes have been made to that Budget even between the time of the presentation of that Budget and last night, to arrive at a figure as to what the deficit is likely to be for 1974-75. The right honourble gentleman rightly has distinguished between 2 sorts of deficit- the domestic deficit and, what is more popularly called, the deficit. 
My colleague, the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory,  Dr Patterson,  will introduce a measure this afternoon which will provide further assistance to the wool industry. I am sure that honourable members opposite will have no reluctance to give that further support to the wool industry. Together with the $150m that has already been given and the sum of approximately $200m that will be announced today, this will mean a $350m difference to the deficit, if one regards the figuring in itself as significant without making allowances for some contingencies. I would suggest that most of the $350m for the wool industry will be returned by the end of June 1975. I simply cite this as an example of how hazardous it is to try to make pronunciamentos now as to what the reality of the deficit is or is not in regard to the total economy. 
The right honourable gentleman himself put a figure of $ 1,700m on it. I am suggesting that, if he adds the figure that he did not know, the result is more likely to be $ 1,850m and a domestic deficit of approximately $ 1,300m. But again, by June 1975 there can be one change, I am suggesting, that will make a difference to both of those deficits. 
I think it is about time that we became mature enough in terms of the Australian economy not to be too bamboozled by the loose quoting of hundreds of millions of dollars. If the right honourable gentleman wants a forecast as to what I think the gross domestic product will be running at by 30 June 1 975, it will be of the order of $60,000m. Whether a domestic deficit of $ 1,300m projected now is adequate or inadequate in terms of the totality of the economy, I do not think any of us can judge. I believe that the measures which were announced last night were timely for the changes which have taken place since the original Budget was prepared. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Division 879, Item 05; Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1974-1975 (when enacted). (2) and (3) Pending passage of the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1974-1975, payments are being financed from the Advance to the Treasurer. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The Government raised no objections to a merger of Wilcox Mofflin Ltd and Colyer-NZT Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of the Barrow Hepburn Group. Implementation of the proposal would initially give Barrow Hepburn Group a majority of the shares in the merged enterprise. However, Barrow Hepburn Group has undertaken that, if the merger is effected, Australian shareholders will appoint a majority of the board, of the merged enterprise and majority Australian ownership of Wilcox Mofflin will be restored within a specified period. In the latter regard, it is relevant that Barrow Hepburn Group acquired a 36 per cent interest in Wilcox Mofflin before the introduction of the foreign takeover measures on 26 September 1972 and that the proposal submitted to the Government envisaged that any increase in the Group's shareholding above 40 per cent would be temporary only. In the foregoing circumstances, I was unable to satisfy myself that foreign interests would be in a position to exercise effective control of the merged enterprise. I therefore found that action was not available under the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act in respect of the proposed merger. 
No. 
Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces  (Question No. 1280) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian Government expenditure on cash benefits to persons represented 5.4 per cent of gross domestic product, on average, over the period 1968-69 to 197 1-72, and 6.2 per cent in 1973-74. (b) Australian Government expenditure on education represented 0.9 per cent of gross domestic product, on average, over the period 1968-69 to 1971-72 and 1.7 per cent in 1973-74. It should be noted that the bulk of Australian Government spending on education is in the form of grants to the States, which are included in the preceding figures. In interpreting the figures, it needs to be borne in mind that a substantial part of the recent increases in Australian Government grants to the States for education has resulted from its assumption of full responsibility for financing tertiary education from the beginning of 1974. with accompanying reductions in general purpose funds provided to the States. Thus, pan of the increase in Australian Government outlays on education reflects a transfer in financial responsibility from the States, rather than increased final expenditure on education. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill declares the rates of income tax payable for the 1974-75 financial year. The main features of the Bill are a new personal tax scale, reduced rates of company tax and a surcharge on property income. The new personal tax scale will result in lower tax for all persons except those with quite large incomes- the greatest reductions will be at the lower and middle income levels. For example, the tax payable on a taxable income of $4,000 will be reduced by $188.30 or 3 1 per cent from the tax at last year's rates and at a taxable income of $6,000 the reduction will be $259.90 or 20.6 per cent. The combined effect of the new rates and the rebate for low income earners with dependants will be to reduce very substantially, and in some cases extinguish, the tax otherwise payable by these persons. For example, a taxpayer with a wife and 2 children with a taxable income of $2,732 after allowance of dependants' and other deductions will be freed from tax. For 1973-74 his tax would have been $302.17. The tax payable by a taxpayer with a taxable income of $4,000, after deductions for a wife and 2 children, will be $303.52 for 1974-75, compared with $608.30 for 1973- 74- a reduction of over 50 per cent. Revised tax instalment deductions taking into account the changed rates of tax announced in my Budget Speech have applied since 1 November. These will be further changed, as from January 1975, so that from January pay packets will, in addition, reflect broadly double the cuts that are being made in the rates announced in the Budget. The new rate scale will also be reflected in provisional tax in respect of 1974-75 incomes. 
The Bill also proposes a tax surcharge on property income included in the 1974-75 taxable income of an individual or the net income of a trust estate. The surcharge will not apply, however, where the taxable or net income is $5,000 or less. The surcharge will be based on the amount of tax on property income calculated by reference to the average rate of tax applicable to the whole of the taxable income. The rate will be 10 per cent where the taxable income is $5,500 or more and there will be 'shading-in' rates applying in the range $5,001 to $5,499. The effect of the surcharge will be quite moderate. In the case of a person with taxable income of $10,000, one-quarter of which is from property, it will add only $69.50 to ordinary tax of $2,780. Despite the surcharge this person will pay less tax for 1974- 75 than would have been payable on the same taxable income for 1973-74. 
For the 1974-75 financial year the special rebate of tax for aged persons is to be a basic amount of $130. It will be recalled that the rebate was introduced as a transitional measure last year, as part of the package of measures associated with the commencement of phasing out of the age pension means test. It has now served its transitional role, but it is to be phased out gradually. While less than that allowed last year it will, when coupled with the reduced rates of tax applying to lower incomes, result in aged persons entitled to it paying less tax in 1974-75 than on equivalent 1973-74 incomes. The rebate will free from tax persons of age pension age for the whole of 1974-75 whose taxable incomes are $2,358 or less. For 1973-74 the corresponding amount was $1,921. 
The Bill proposes that for the 1974-75 financial year the general rebate of tax payable by public and private companies in respect of 1973- 74 incomes will be 45 per cent. The proposed rate for public companies is  2Vi  per cent less than for the 1973-74 financial year, and the Budget proposal to increase the rate for private companies to 47.5 per cent is not being proceeded with. The rate of tax payable by cooperative companies and non-profit companies other than friendly society dispensaries on tax income in excess of $10,000 will also be reduced from 47.5 per cent to 45 per cent. Other company tax rates will be the same as those that applied last year. The rate of tax payable in respect of the 1974- 75 investment income of a superannuation fund that does not invest a specified proportion of its assets in public securities will be reduced from 47.5 per cent to 45 per cent, thus preserving the link between the rate of tax payable in these cases and that payable by mutual life assurance companies. 
Explanations of technical aspects of the Bill are contained in the memorandum I have circulated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will give effect to taxation proposals announced in the Budget Speech and one or two other such proposals. The rebate of tax for low income earners entitled to concessional deductions for dependants is one feature of the Bill. It is proposed that where, because of the lower rates of tax payable by these people, their tax saving from deductions for dependants is less than 40 per cent of the amount of the deductions, a rebate will be allowed to bring the saving up to 40 per cent, or to the tax otherwise payable if that is less. By way of illustration, a man supporting a wife and two children is entitled to maintenance deductions of $832. If his taxable income were $5,000 his tax saving from these deductions would ordinarily be $266.24. The rebate will increase the saving by $66.56 to $332.80.  His  tax for 1974-75 will be $6 13.44, i.e., $303.86, nearly $6 a week less than the 1973-74 tax of $9 17.30. 
The Bill also proposes amendments to the depreciation provisions to make it clear that expenditure on facilities used in child care centres provided by employers for children of their employees are to qualify for depreciation deductions on the same basis as facilities provided for employees. The concessional deductions available for the maintenance of dependants are to be widened by the Bill so that, for 1974-75 and subsequent years, deductions will be available for the maintenance of dependants who are not residents of Australia. 
A major purpose of this Bill is to give legislative effect to the Government's undertaking to introduce a scheme of income tax deductions for interest paid on home loans. The scheme will provide worthwhile relief from interest charges for low and medium income borrowers. The new scheme will apply to housing loan interest due and payable on and after 1 July 1974. Its basic features have already been outlined on a number of occasions and are explained in detail in the memorandum I am circulating on these and other provisions of the Bill. The Bill also gives effect to an announcement I made last March that the income tax law would be amended to exempt from tax interest derived by a credit union from loans to its members. Credit unions will continue to be taxed on income other than interest on loans to members, e.g., from rents and 'outside' investment of funds not immediately required for their normal lending operations. A futher amendment in the concessional deduction area to be made by the Bill will reduce the maximum deductions for education and selfeducation expenses from $400 to $150. 1 do not have to stress the substantially increased direct expenditures that the Government is making on education. 
I refer now to an amendment proposed as part of the Budget which affects life assurance companies. A Life assurance company is allowed a deduction based on a proportion of 'calculated liabilities'. This deduction, which is in the nature of a concession, in effect frees from tax a basic 2 per cent return on policy holders' funds, and this ultimately goes to policy holders in tax free form. 
If a company's holdings of public securities rise above or fall below the 30/20 investment ratio the deduction is varied upwards or downwards. The basic allowable proportion of calculated liabilities was reduced from 3 per cent to 2 per cent in the 1973-74 Budget, and will be reduced to 1 per cent by this amendment as a further step towards ensuring that life assurance transactions, viewed as a whole, bear a fairer share of overall taxation. 
New provisions are to be inserted by the Bill to reduce the difficulties I mentioned in the Budget Speech regarding taxation of the value of certain fringe benefits. Following a concept applied in Canada, one of the new provisions will, in effect, place on a fringe benefit provided by way of private use of a motor vehicle a minimum annual value equal to 12 per cent of the first $6,000 and 24 per cent of the balance of the original cost of the vehicle. Another new provision will require the value of benefits received under a stock option or share purchase scheme to be measured at the time of the exercise of the option or on the transfer of the shares rather than, as at present, when the rights are acquired. The third of the new provisions will disallow deductions for fees paid for membership of a sporting or social club. This provision will also disallow deductions for expenditure relating to leisure facilities such as boats, ski lodges, holiday cottages unless a genuine and substantial business need for the facility is established. 
The Bill also proposes some technical amendments concerned with the allowance in tax assessments of our residents of a credit for Papua New Guinea tax on income derived there. The amendments, which I foreshadowed in an announcement I made last year, are consequential upon the introduction of a dividend withholding tax by Papua New Guinea in August 1972 and will ensure that appropriate credit is allowed for that tax. Minor amendments are proposed to the relief provisions of the income tax law. One will increase from $ 100 to $200 the amount in respect of which applications for relief can be dealt with by the Commissioner of Taxation. The other will empower the relief board to determine, without prior reference to a member of a Board of Review or the  Chairman  of a Land Valuation Board, applications for relief where the liability is $2,000 or less, instead of $1,000 or less as at present. 
Several important amendments to the special provisions of the income tax laws relating to capital expenditures of mining enterprises are contained m the Bill. As I indicated in my Budget Speech, these provisions have resulted in many highly profitable companies paying relatively little tax over an extended period. The Bill will withdraw- for 1974-75 and subsequent yearsthe 20 per cent tax exemption on income from the production of certain minerals, including copper, bauxite, nickel and beach sands. Deductions will not in future be allowable for capital expenditure incurred on company formation and capital raising. Capital expenditure on the development of a mine or oil field, on the provision of community facilities adjacent to a mine or field, or on the purchase of mining rights or information will be deductible henceforth over the estimated life of the mine or field. Where the estimated life is longer than 25 years the allowance will be one twenty-fifth of the undeducted capital expenditure. Capital expenditure on facilities for the transport of minerals will be deductible for income tax purposes over 20 years instead of 10 years. However, in relation to any of those expenditures to be made by 30 June 1976 under contracts for the supply of goods or services already entered into, deductions will continue to be allowable under the present provisions of the law. 
Exploration expenditure incurred by general mining companies in 1974-75 and subsequent income years will be allowable as immediate deductions up to the level of income derived in any year from general mining and associated activities in the same way as petroleum prospecting and mining companies are allowed immediate deductions against income from petroleum for similar expenses. Prospecting and other activities carried out by general mining companies on the continental shelf will be regarded as having been carried out in Australia, consistent with the taxation treatment of petroleum operations carried on at off-shore locations. As I mentioned earlier I am circulating a comprehensive explanatory memorandum on the Bill to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the basic rate of tax payable by a company under section 126 of the Income Tax Assessment Act on interest paid on bearer debentures where the company does not disclose the names and addresses of the debenture holders to the commissioner. The rate at present is that applying to a taxable income of $16,786, which is about 39 per cent. Designed as it is as a sanction against a practice which involves tax avoidance this rate is now inadequate. The opportunity is being taken to increase it. For interest paid or credited on or after the date of commencement of this Act, the rate of tax will be 55 per cent. It will thus be the same as will in future apply in respect of property income of certain trusts to which special rates are applied because they are regarded as instruments of tax avoidance. The technical aspects of the Bill are explained in the memorandum that I have had circulated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will amend the Income Tax (International Agreements) Act in 2 respects, one minor and the other substantial. The minor amendment is quite technical and is necessary because of the proposed surcharge on property income for 1974-75. It will provide a means of taking the surcharge into account in calculating the amount of Australian tax on particular income. This calculation has to be made in order to determine a limit for double taxation credits for foreign tax so that they do not exceed Australian tax on foreign income, and to establish the rebate to be allowed where the Australian tax payable by a non-resident on Australian income is limited under an agreement. 
The substantial amendment will give the force of law to a comprehensive double taxation agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany which was signed in 1972. The agreement will not, however, become actually operative until 30 days after it has been ratified by both countries and instruments of ratification exchanged. The agreement is comprehensive and, by and large, it accords in practical effects with other such agreements to which Australia is a party. I should, however, refer to a particular matter that is dealt with somewhat differently in this agreement. 
Under the agreement with the Federal Republic, withholding tax on dividends will generally be limited by each country to 15 per cent. The Federal Republic has, however, a system of taxing company profits which involves much lower rates on distributed profits than on undistributed profits. If, in a case of direct investmentthat is, where foreign holding is 25 per cent or more- the Federal Republic limited its tax on dividends to 15 per cent, the situation would be wide open to exploitation. As in other agreements to which it is a party therefore, there is in our agreement with the Federal Republic provision for that country to impose its withholding tax in direct investment cases at a higher rate. The rate agreed is 25.75 per cent. This means that under the agreement, the combined company and withholding tax rate on profits leaving the Federal Republic as dividends in direct investment cases will be 43.98 per cent. The corresponding Australian rate based on the proposed company tax rate of 45 per cent will be 53.25 per cent. 
As I have said, other provisions of the agreement are largely conventional in nature. Explanations of them are spelt out in some detail in the explanatory memorandum which I am circulating with the Bill. There are 2 things I should add. One is that, due to the delay that has unavoidably occurred in giving force to it, the agreement will have retrospective effect to the 1971-72 income year in Australia and the 1971 calendar year in the Federal Republic. The other is that I am sure all honourable members would regard the new agreement as further evidence of the harmonious relations that exist between the Federal Republic and Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will amend the estate duty law in two substantial respects. It will provide for a deduction of up to $35,000 in the assessment of duty payable on an estate where an interest in a matrimonial home passes to a surviving spouse. It will also provide for the establishment of a board with power to release a person wholly or partly from estate duty where its exaction would cause serious hardship for a beneficiary. These 2 measures give effect to undertakings in the policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 29 April 1974. 
For the proposed deduction to be available it will be necessary for the deceased person to have been domiciled in Australia immediately before his or her death and for property comprising an interest in a matrimonial home to pass to the surviving spouse. In addition to the more usual situations, shares conferring rights of occupancy of a flat or home unit used as a matrimonial home will be treated as such property. The amount of the deduction will be determined by reference to the gross value of the property disregarding any mortgage or other encumbrance on it. A deduction up to the full gross value may be allowed where the value does not exceed $35,000. Where it exceeds that amount the deduction will be $35,000 less $7 for every $ 10 of the excess so that there will be no deduction at all where the gross value is $85,000 or more. The deduction is to be allowed in assessments of estates of persons who died on or after 30 April 1974. 
Special provisions have been included in the Bill to deal with situations in which the matrimonial home was not used exclusively for that purpose and where something less than the whole of the property passes to the surviving spouse. There are also provisions to deal appropriately with such situations as where an interest in the matrimonial home has been gifted to a spouse within 3 years before death and is brought back into the estate for duty purposes as notional property. The special provisions are discussed in detail in the explanatory memorandum being made available to honourable members and I will not elaborate on them in this introductory speech. 
Like the Income Tax Relief Board, the board to be established to relieve a person from a liability to pay estate duty is to comprise the Commissioner of Taxation, the Secretary to the Treasury and the Comptroller-General of Customs or their substitutes. It will be able to grant relief only where the benefit will accrue to a beneficiary who would suffer hardship if the full amount of duty were collected. In cases involving applications for relief from duty of $2,000 or more the Board will be required to refer the application to a taxation board of review or to the  Chairman  of the Valuation Board so that the appropriate persons can be examined regarding statements in support of the application. The 
Commissioner of Taxation will be authorised to deal with applications involving small, amounts of $200 or less. 
Other amendments contained in the Bill ensure that, where appropriate, the new deduction for the matrimonial home and any amounts for which relief has been granted are taken into account in calculating quick succession and primary producer rebates in estate duty assessments. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Banking Bill has four main purposes.The first purpose is to take full advantage of the constitutional powers of the Australian Government in relation to exchange control regulation of the financial aspects of overseas transactions. Secondly, the Bill provides for the extra-territorial application of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations. Thirdly, the Bill includes provisions that validate, for the purpose of any civil proceedings, acts or transactions already entered into, or which might be entered into in future, without the proper exchange control authority. The right of the Government to prosecute persons for breaches of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations will not be affected. 
The fourth purpose of the Bill is to provide a more comprehensive legislative basis for tax screening arrangements enabling exchange control approval to be withheld to proposed transactions with overseas tax havens that involve evasion or avoidance of Australian tax. Amendments to the Taxation Administration Act 1953-1973 will also be introduced into the House for this purpose. 
The present section 39 of the Banking Bill has been on the statute books for about 30 years and only minor amendments have been made to it during that time. Since the section was drafted, it has been recognised that, in order to be able to give full effect to economic and financial management policies which it may be desirable to pursue in the national interest, governments need to have full legal powers to control financial aspects of all the various types of transaction which may be entered into between residents of Australia and residents of overseas countries. 
Under the present section 39 exchange control regulations may be made for the purposes of the protection of the currency or of the public credit of Australia or to conserve, in the national interest, Australia's foreign exchange resources. The wording of this section, and the way it is drafted, has given rise to some uncertainty as to whether the section gives power to make regulations with respect to all types of overseas transactions. The proposed amendments to section 39 should ensure that regulations may be made to control the financial aspects of all overseas transactions entered into in modern economies. 
The absence of a specific power over extraterritorial transactions in the existing legislation could enable avoidance of the requirement to seek exchange control approval in respect of contracts, etc., with non-residents entered into outside Australia. Such contracts could be concluded contrary to Government policies. The proposed new section 39a specifically provides for financial acts and transactions of Australian residents which take place overseas to be brought within the ambit of exchange control regulations. 
The present Banking Act contains no provision for the granting of retrospective exchange control authorisations. In the absence of the proper exchange control authority, not only could a transaction between a resident of Australia and an overseas resident be illegal and subject to penalty under the Banking Act, it could also be null and void. In most cases where exchange control authority is not obtained the persons involved would be unaware of the need to obtain approval and, in many cases, the absence of exchange control approval would not present a problem to the parties concerned. However the fact that such contracts could be invalid could lead to people using the alleged invalidity of such transactions to renege on their debts or other obligations. This would clearly be undesirable. 
Clause 5 of the Bill contains provisions which will validate, for civil purposes, acts or transactions which have been entered into without exchange control approval prior to the commencement of the Act. Section 39 (6) makes provision for regulations to be made to validate transactions, etc., which will be entered into in future without the appropriate approval. Validation would, however, in no way prevent a person being convicted of an offence against the 
Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations because the person failed to obtain exchange control approval. 
Honourable members will recall that last December the Parliament approved amendments to the Banking Act 1959-1973 which were intended to provide a firm legal basis for arrangements which I had earlier announced in October 1973 for the screening of exchange control applications in relation to transactions with tax havens. The amendment made at that time was drafted to deal with the situation in a short form, but experience indicates that it is necessary to set out the relevant rules in a more comprehensive way. It is also necessary to make clear in the legislation, as had been intended since the tax screening procedures were put into operation, that the effective work of considering whether there are tax avoidance or evasion implications in proposed transactions with tax havens falls on the Commissioner of Taxation, not on the Reserve Bank. 
Under existing section 39 (3) and (4) the Reserve Bank, which is responsible for the administration of exchange control, has the power to reject applications for exchange control approval on the ground that the transaction involves, assists in, or is associated with the avoidance or evasion of Australian tax. The Bank is, however, not authorised to refuse exchange control approval on tax grounds if the applicant produces to the Bank a statement by the Commissioner of Taxation to the effect that, in the opinion of the Commissioner, no tax avoidance or evasion is involved. 
The proposed new section 39b in the Banking Bill allows or, in certain cases, requires the Bank to refuse applications for exchange control approval unless the applicant produces a tax clearance certificate from the Commissioner of Taxation to the effect that the transaction is not associated with tax avoidance or evasion. In other words, the formal power in relation to tax implications of proposed transactions is to be transferred from the Reserve Bank to the Commissioner. The Taxation Administration Bill provides, inter aha, rules associated with the giving of these tax clearance certificates. 
Honourable members will be aware from comments that I have made to this House on more than one occasion how the Government feels about tax havens and the resort that people and companies make to them. This type of activity is clearly inequitable and strikes at the foundation of the society that this Government is building in Australia. There are indications that the tax screening procedures, so far as they extend, are making a significant contribution to countering tax haven resort by Australians in the New Hebrides and other places. I ask the House to give a rapid passage to these measures and I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by Br Edwards) adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In my speech on the Banking Bill I have spoken of the reasons for introducing this legislation. The explanatory memorandum that will be circulated to honourable members explains quite fully the scheme of the legislation and outlines some formal amendments that are also proposed by the Bill. Accordingly, and because the legislation is designed to give fresh sanction to screening procedures that have had the approval of the Parliament, I think I can be brief in mentioning the main features of this Bill. 
As I indicated when speaking to the Banking Bill, a section proposed by that Bill requires the reserve Bank, in appropriate cases, to refuse an exchange control application unless there is produced to it a tax clearance certificate issued by the Commissioner of Taxation. The Taxation Administration Bill provides rules for the giving by the Commissioner of such certificates. Under the banking legislation the Treasurer is given authority to declare that classes of transactions with persons in tax havens are to be subjected to tax screening. If a proposed transaction falls within such a class, or if the Reserve Bank considers that an exchange control application should be subjected to screening, the Bank is to require the applicant to obtain from the Commissioner, under the taxation Administration Act, a tax clearance certificate before it grants exchange control approval. 
The Commissioner will be entitled to refuse to issue a clearance certificate if the applicant does not satisfy him that the proposed transaction will not involve, assist in or be associated with the avoidance or evasion of Australian tax. For this purpose, the Bill in effect declares that transactions motivated by an aim of securing a tax benefit or advantage fall into the category of tax avoidance or evasion. However, the Bill authorises the issue of a clearance certificate where it is judged that the need to protect the revenue against avoidance and evasion does not warrant refusal of a certificate. Should the Commissioner decline to issue a tax clearance certificate he is to advise the applicant accordingly and the applicant will have rights of formal objection against this refusal. If the Commissioner does not then issue a certificate the applicant may have the matter referred to a Taxation Board of Review set up under the income tax law. There will be a right of appeal to the High Court on any question of law involved in a decision of a Board of Review. In short, there will be rights to independent review of the Commissioner's decisions under this Bill, as is the case under other legislation administered by the Commissioner. Other parts of the Bill contain necessary provisions for the maintenance of secrecy by taxation officers in their handling of applications for tax clearance certificates and for obtaining relevant information. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Edwards)  adjourned. 
-The right honourable gentleman's words are more a series of affirmations than a question. He asked specifically about the rate of inflation in Australia relative to some or most OECD countries. The Australian rate is lower than that of some of these countries and higher than that of others. The right honourable gentleman is interjecting. He has asked a question and I am giving an answer, if he wants it. The rate of inflation is higher in Japan, which is an OECD country, than it is here, and it is lower in the United States than it is here. 
The right honourable member referred to unemployment. Again, unemployment is higher in Australia than in some places and lower than in others. For instance, unemployment in countries with which the honourable member likes to compare us at times, such as the United States and Canada, is significantly higher than it is in Australia. I believe that the rate of inflation and the rate of unemployment in Australia are higher than any of us would like, but I think it is about time we stopped trying to score off each other about the unfortunate circumstances and began to look closely at the reasons for them. I have endeavoured in recent times to try to indicate that unless employer and employee groups can get together in some sort of trustful co-operation in relation to the problems I think we are likely still to finish up in the wrangle that because of price rises increased wage demands are sought and when increased wages demands are conceded this becomes an excuse for further price rises. The two are intertwined, and the sooner we acknowledge it the better. The right honourable member asked whether Australia is more insulated than most countries from the effects of the energy crisis. It is true that we are, but nevertheless, as my colleague has pointed out, Australia's imported oil bill is some $600m more than it might have been. This surely must make some difference to relative shares of the gross product. 
The Government has taken a number of measures directly and indirectly through the Reserve Bank with a view to extending the supplies of credit available through the banking system. There have been several releases from the statutory deposit system. We have varied the provisions by which savings bank investment is regulated as between government securities and housing loans. We have reduced the liquidity requirements. This immediately made cash available through that area. Of course Treasury notes are short term securities for the investment of $100,000 or more for periods of less than 13 weeks or less than 26 weeks according to the nature of the Treasury note. I believe that quite a number of holdings of Treasury notes in recent months have been anticipatory of the company taxation that has to be paid. I have been asked quite a number of questions about that area. 
I point out that something like half of the companies have already paid their quarterly instalments by the due date and no doubt those transactions will be reflected also in the holding of Treasury notes. We recently reduced the interest rate on Treasury notes to make them a relatively less attractive investment and other areas, like the semi-government loans, relatively more attractive. During the month of September particularly quite a number of semi-government loans were in fact over-subscribed, as I believe the current one for the Melbourne Board of Works will be. I think the honourable member would have noted that there was a record release by the Commonwealth Trading Bank and the Commonwealth Savings Bank of money for housing during the last month. I think what ought to be occasionally stressed is that some of these measures do take time to work through. 
I notice that the apostles of gloom for the economy are already trying to forecast what the December consumer price index will reflect. I regard this as a quite unscrupulous exercise. Nobody will know until about 15 January what the December CPI will be. I point out that even the 
Statistician himself was wrong last quarter because he originally showed the figure at 5.4 per cent and in the outcome it proved to be 5.1 per cent. I do not think that any service is rendered to an economy by trying to suggest an exaggerated picture as to the rate of inflation. I suggest that it is about time we sensibly got down to analysing what the root causes of inflation, unemployment and flagging investment really are. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that my colleague the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  on behalf of the Australian Government, announced on 27 August that the Australian Wool Corporation would operate a minimum- floor- price equivalent to 250c per kilo clean for 2 1 micron wool during the 1 974-75 season and that the Government would guarantee sufficient funds for this purpose. Honourable members will also recall that, in addition to the $13m provided in the Budget for advances to the Corporation, Parliament, in September last, made available $150m by way of a special appropriation under the Wool Marketing (Loan) Act. The purpose of this Bill is to amend that Act to enable me, on behlf of the Australian Government, to make further loans of up to an additional $200m to the Corporation. Thus the total provision under the Act would be increased to $350m. Proceeds of loans to the Corporation under the Act are available for financing purchases of wool at auction- including tender- and for the making of advances to growers whose wool is withheld from the market by the Corporation. 
Since the 1974-75 wool selling season commenced the Corporation has, under its minimum reserve price operations, purchased on average approximately 50 per cent of the reduced offering at auction. As at 15 November its stockpile had reached some 800,000 bales, and it had committed over S90m of the $150m. Clearly there is the prospect that the $150m could become fully committed while the Parliament is in recess. It is therefore necessary, before Parliament rises, to make provision for further loans to the Corporation. 
It is considered that the amount available to the Corporation should be sufficiently large to cover its requirements to the end of the wool selling season. The total amount of funds likely to be required for the Corporation's purposes is difficult to establish, depending as it does on the extent to which the trade supports the market. But, insofar as it is possible to predict at this stage, we judge that a further amount of $200m should be adequate for this purpose, and the Bill seeks an additional appropriation of that amount. We shall, of course, keep the position under close review. We do not rule out the possibility of the Corporation obtaining further trading bank finance later in the season. In that event the amounts I would need to advance to the Corporation under the Act would of course be correspondingly reduced. 
I am sure that honourable members will appreciate the need for expeditious action in this matter, to ensure a continuing provision of funds to the Corporation and to demonstrate beyond all possible doubt the Corporation's capacity to sustain its floor price operations. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nixon)  adjourned. 
I have discussed this matter with my colleague the Minister for Agriculture, and negotiations are taking place about it. I cannot give a detailed answer at this point but I shall supply the honourable member with the necessary information. 
Yes. I want to make one or two references to certain things which have appeared in the Press and which were said over television in the last few days. First, I shall read from the 'Financial Review' of Friday, 22 November. An article appears under the name of  Mr Brian  Toohey with the description: 'Crean goes quietly'. This is a prime example of the mixture of fact and fiction which it seems is becoming the standard of reporting. I think the implication is supposed to be that every man has his price. This extract goes from page 1 to a later page and it states: 
Apparently  Mr Whitlam  was also aware of the fact that  Mr Crean  would have to stay on as a Minister if he was to collect his full ministerial pension. A Minister needs 2 years in office before he can draw his full pension. This comes up at Christmas for  Mr Crean,  which means that if he really wanted to he could resign then, giving scope for a new election to Cabinet and a reshuffle. 
First, I want to say that I was responsible more than a year ago for introducing legislation into this House to abolish the ministerial pension. Even before I became a Minister I was qualified for all the pension entitlement that I can ever receive. I simply say that this is an example of the standard of reporting. Because there would be too much to quote fully I refer particularly to 2 people. One is named Kelly who writes in a newspaper called the 'Australian' which once had the chance to be a great paper but is certainly receding from that position. The other gentleman is named Forsyth who writes for a paper called the 'Telegraph' which nobody ever thought was great. These are the sorts of people who will take less than half the truth, put it as though it is the whole truth and they do not have enough journalese sense to know that it then becomes almost anything but the truth. 
The other types of incidents to which I want to refer are those which seek to bring one's family into certain political events. There are 2 examples which have appeared in the newspapers. One article purports to describe an incident which took place between my wife and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  This is an incident which never took place. Both parties will indicate that. Yet one of these journalists says that because the report came from an impeccable source he is prepared to print it. No denial has been made of the second incident. At least there has been no indication of a denial in the Press. On Thursday night the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  spoke during the adjournment debate on my behalf. I am not normally an emotional man but I think I would have been a little too emotional on Thursday night to do what my colleague, the Leader of the House, did for me. That evening a television station put over a flash news item based on a telephone call. The item suggested that one of my sons had rung up the television station and had used language which I have taught my sons not to regard as the cream of the English language. Why would any television station base a news item on a telephone call without checking the source? 
I have had to suffer a certain amount in the last several weeks. I do not mind so far as my position is concerned but I resent it when my family is brought into it. I resent the innuendoes. I think all honourable members will concede that they would be hard pressed to find any occasion in a period of more than 20 years when I have said anything personal about anybody in this House. I resent some of the comments which have been made about me. I think it is time editors of newspapers took a stand on the keyhole reporting which passes for representation of the facts in this place. I have always believed as a good democrat that the pen should be mightier than the sword but when the pen begins to be used as a sword we are destroying the freedom that the Press claims to want to have. 
in reply- Before a vote is taken on this matter I would like to mention one or two points that have been raised in the debate. The Income Tax Bill 1974 is concerned with the rates of tax that will be imposed on individuals and companies for the period ended 30 June 1975. 1 acknowledge the thanks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  for the assistance that his Party has received from officers of my Department in helping them to evaluate the Bill. 
I thought that he might have added the Treasurer. I think this House is the better when its members are well informed about measures that come before it. I have never restricted the access of members on the nongovernment side to the technical material, so long as they have not expected my officers to say that they think certain things are silly. Such things involve matters of policy and it is not for the officers to comment upon them. But so far as the facts are concerned, I think we are all helped by knowing what we are talking about. 
One of the matters that has been raised involves this question of what is described as unearned income or income from property as distinct from personal exertion. I know that a lot of tears are being shed about the hard earned savings of certain people. I make the simple declaration that I believe there is a difference in those 2 situations: Two people have the same incomelet us say, of $6,000 a year- and one person earns that $6,000 by the sweat of his brow or the work of his hands and another person earns the same sum simply by receiving dividends or returns on investment. This is acknowledged not only in our present tax system, but also it was acknowledged previously. It is a practice commonly acknowledged in the United States of America and in the United Kingdom. I know that a lot of crocodile tears can be shed about it. I think that there are some people even who are suggesting that the tax represents a charge of 10 per cent on income. That is not true. It is simply a tax at whatever the rate which otherwise would have applied, increased by 10 per cent on that part of the total income which derives from property. I think there has been a lot of distortion about the position. I simply try to put that right. 
Equally, I think that both sides of the House agree to the proposal to abolish the means test. We said that if we were to abolish the means test, in the long run money received by way of pension should be regarded as income and included along with other income as subject to tax. I believe that almost every pensioner is better off today when his pension and the additional tax on that pension is taken into account. I think that the net income position of such people has improved. But we still see these crocodile tears shed in regard to the taxing of elderly people and so on without any suggestion being made that now, if such people are over 75 years of age, they are able to receive a pension in full, regardless of income. As from April, pensioners between the age of 75 years and 70 years will receive a pension in full regardless of their position, and I believe that in the next Budget we will go further down the line to include people over the age of 65 years. 
I think that my friend from Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  described something as a confidence trick. What does not seem to be acknowledged in all this argument is that confidence tricks are put over when people do not study the facts. Virtually, they trick themselves. The reality of the situation is that the Government is expected to provide certain services for its citizens- things like education, health services, welfare, payments to the States, cash transfer payment to citizens and so on. The principal source of revenue for the provision of those services is the income tax charged on individuals and companies. During the period of the current Australian Budget such income will account for over half of the total of $ 16 billion that we are proposing to spend in the next 12 months. There has been a certain amount of tax reform in this Budget, whatever people say to the contrary. The reform has come, as I for one have always insisted that it should, from the bottom up and not from the top down. We have thought first of relieving the burden on those in receipt of lower incomes. In fact, we have abolished income tax for people who are on what is called the poverty level. 
The same sort of arguments that honourable members opposite have advanced in the Parliament in regard to the proportions of tax could well have been argued and, I presume, were argued by us when we were where honourable members opposite are now. In fact, I think that my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  described that. There has been very little change. In fact, money collected in taxes of one kind or another, including taxation at all 3 levels of government, has slowly increased upwards from 1951 right through to 1974 as a proportion of the gross domestic product in Australia. This has not been something peculiar only to this Labor Government. It is something that has happened in other areas. Even now, there are quite a number of countries where that proportion is far higher than it is in Australia. Our proportion is still only about onequarter. In some countries the proportion goes nearly as high as 40 per cent when the different provisioning of welfare arrangements is taken into account. 
I do not want to say very much more other than to commend for the full and detailed consideration of honourable members who are interested not only the Asprey Committee's interim report itself but also the 13 or so pamphlets that I am issuing with it. They are expert documents about certain aspects of taxation in Australia prepared mainly in the Taxation Office. I am sure our debate will be better informed if those documents are closely studied in the next 12 months so that when further revisions of income tax are before us we may be a little better informed. Some people are enthusiasts for one form of tax rather than another. Some are enthusiasts for rebates as against deductions. But the cases are not always black and white; there are pro and con arguments. I must say that I have resented to some extent the fact that one or two of the newspapers that have reported upon these documents, have tried to give them what they call a Treasury slant. Every one of those documents has a page of preface which says that the material is presented for consideration and evaluation. They do not attempt to come to a view favouring one idea rather than another. 
Exactly. As in many other documents, maybe sometimes there peeps out from the author a sort of predilection for the pro rather than the con, or vice versa. But in no sense are they the Treasury's views and therefore they certainly are not the Treasurer's views about these particular matters. Perhaps the thing that has to be cogitated upon in particular by this House is the Asprey Committee 's suggestion that if the tax structure as a whole is taken- I think the report says that it does not deserve to be referred as the tax system; it is just something that has grown up and in some respects is a very ossified arrangementit is seen that in lower levels of income the tax structure is regressive, that is, that the people on those levels proportionately pay more than they should. In the middle section- it is pretty hard to define with much precision what the middle is- the system is virtually proportional when both direct and indirect taxes are taken into account and it is only in the higher levels of income that the total structure can be said to be progressive. 
What does not seem to be considered enough in Australia is that, whilst perhaps we have more poor people than we should- relatively they do not represent many of the total populationneither are there very many extremely wealthy people. The majority of people in Australia are in the band of, -say, incomes of $4,000 to $8,000 a year. Those barriers are pretty rough because some are single people who will receive higher incomes later on and some are older people who have had higher incomes earlier, and so on. But if you want to increase the total amount of tax that is collected, mostly it has to come from that great central band who comprise the majority of taxpayers. I think that if we realised that at times there might be a little more light and a little less heat in some of these debates about whether a particular section is inordinately taxed in relation to the other. I thank honourable members who have participated in the debate for their interest in the matter. However, I urge the House to reject the amendment that has been proposed. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lynch's  amendment) stand part of the question. 
I indicate briefly that the Government cannot at this stage accept this amendment. I think it ought to be appreciated that, however inadequate this system may be thought to be by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  the Government of which he was a member did nothing in this direction. If my memory serves me correctly it poured a lot of cold water on this proposition during the 1972 election campaign. It is part of an election promise. It is being introduced in the terms in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced it to the public. I know that people in the Caucus of my own Party have put forward much the same kind of argument, that is, that the proposed amount of $4,000 in now inadequate. I gave them the assurance that when we were considering amending the income tax provisions for the next financial year these sorts of conditions would be borne in mind. 
I simply say, therefore, that at least we are getting this scheme onto the statute book. It is going to cost something of the order $ 130m. We have been subjected to all sorts of criticism about high expenditure, high taxation and so on. I have not been able to cost the proposal advanced by the honourable member for Lilley, but I suggest that it would involve an expenditure considerably above the $ 130m that will be foregone by allowing this concession. I accept his view that inflation does make a change to the threshold of this matter. That will be borne in mind when the Government is considering this matter in the course of next year's tax proposals. While inflation exists as it is at present- I get very few bright suggestions as. to how to bring it down; I get plenty of people diagnosing it but none offering any solutions as to its removal- I believe that we have to get used to changing the taxation rate schedules annually including the kinds of concessions involved in the tax system. I simply give the honourable member the assurance that this matter will be looked at. My own Party has asked that I do it. I have promised that I will. Meanwhile I want to get this measure at least written in the statute book. Therefore I cannot support the amendment at this stage. 
Again, I am afraid I cannot accept the amendment at this time. I repeat the assurance that the matter will be looked at when income tax is being adjusted next year. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate an amount of $150m to be advanced to specified banks for lending for housing. The proposed scheme was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his statement on the economy in the House on 12 November 1974. The need for this action arises because the reduction in activity in the home building industry was in danger of becoming more extensive than the Government would have wished. However, I emphasise that there is a need to keep the housing situation in perspective. I remind the House that dwelling completions in 1973-74 reached a record level of 152,700 and, at the end of the June quarter, the amount of work under construction was still at record levels. Indeed the capacity of the building industry then was undoubtedly still over-stretched. Furthermore, even at the end of the September quarter the number of dwellings under construction was still 28 per cent above the level at the end of September 1 972 and only slightly below the number at the end of September 1 973. 
However, with both dwelling approvals and loan approvals declining sharply in the early months of 1974-75, the Government quickly moved to amend the Banking (Savings Banks) Regulations to enable the savings banks to channel a greater proportion of their funds into housing. At the same time, the banks were requested to increase the volume of finance approvals for housing. In short, the Government acted to increase the supply of housing finance as soon as it became apparent that there was a need to do so. 1 emphasise that, as a result of this action, savings bank loan approvals in the December quarter could be as much as 50 per cent higher than in the September quarter. Nevertheless, a temporary gap in the total flow of housing finance appeared likely. It is primarily to avoid such a gap that the Government has decided to provide additional finance through the savings banks in order to minimise any reduction in activity. 
The specific allocations to individual savings banks are set out in the schedule to the BUI, which provides for advances to be made to savings banks in proportion to their shares of total depositors' balances with savings banks at the end of September 1974. The allocations to the Rural Bank of New South Wales and the Bank of Queensland Ltd are based on their respective shares of total savings and trading bank deposits in the same month. These 2 banks are included in the scheme because of their traditional and important role in the provision of housing finance and the fact that, unlike the other trading banks, they do not have savings bank affiliates. 
As the purpose of the proposed scheme is to provide an additional quick-acting stimulus to activity and employment in the home building industry, the funds will be made available to the banks on the condition that they are used by them to increase their rate of housing loan approvals over the period from the commencement of the Act to the end of March 1975, or such later date as the Treasurer approves, by the full extent of the additional funds available to them. The increased lending will be required to be additional to the higher rate of lending for housing which banks would have achieved from their resources, which I have already mentioned. 
If a bank is judged to be unlikely to increase this higher rate of lending by the full amount of its share under the Bill, there is provision to enable its share or part thereof to be redistributed to other banks. Thus, clause 4 of the Bill provides that, where the Treasurer is satisfied that the amount initially allocated to a bank under the Bill will exceed the likely increase in the bank's rate of housing loan approvals over the specified period, the Treasurer may reduce the allocation to the bank by the amount of the excess and then re-allocate the excess among some or all of the other banks. 
The Government is determined to avoid a return to the earlier boom conditions in the home building industry which were beneficial neither to the community nor to the industry, and it is important that these funds be put to use at a time when activity in the industry is slackening. It takes a little time before increased finance is reflected in increased activity and, to facilitate speedy use of the funds, they are being lent by the Australian Government for on-lending by eligible banks on the same terms and conditions as apply to normal housing loans financed from the bank's own sources. The banks have agreed to take the funds at a margin below their own lending rates which will have regard to administrative costs. Within this framework banks have been asked to give preference to loans which will result in new constructions, including extensions to homes, and the acquisition of houses not previously occupied. The banks will endeavour to use their allocation under the Act so as to achieve as high a proportion as practicable of their total housing loan approvals under this scheme to persons earning less than $ 1 50 a week, and will continue not to make any distinction between male and female applicants in the approval of housing loans. 
The detailed arrangements relating to the timing of advances to banks, their repayment by banks, and the interest rates on the Government loans under this legislation are currently being discussed with the banks and will be contained in a written agreement with the banks on terms and conditions of the Government advances. However, the banks have indicated their acceptance in principle of the scheme on the general basis I have outlined. I express my appreciation for the banks co-operation in the discussions at short notice on this scheme. 
The scheme covered in this Bill is additional to the measures already taken by the Government to increase substantially the volume of finance provided by the savings banks for housing and the action to increase the funds for welfare housing purposes. I am confident that the combined effect of these and other measures should be to restore activity in the home building industry to a satisfactory level. However, policy with regard to bank lending for housing will continue, as in the past, to be reassessed in the light of developing circumstances. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 

Thai the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the operation of the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972-1973 until 31 December 1975. The Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act was introduced by the previous Government in 1972 as an interim measure pending the preparation of comprehensive legislation for the control of foreign takeovers. The Act was to have expired on 31 December 1973 but its operation was extended to 31 December 1974 to provide further time for the development of proposals for comprehensive legislation. 
The Government has completed its review of the existing foreign takeovers legislation. However, incorporation of the Government's proposals into new legislation is a complex task. In view of the very heavy demands imposed by the Government's legislation program on available legal drafting services, it has not been possible to prepare the new legislation in time for introduction into the Parliament this year. It is therefore necessary to extend the operation of the existing foreign takeovers legislation for a further period. I have therefore introduced the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Bill 1974 to extend that legislation for a further period of 12 months. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 

This the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a machinery measure designed to meet legal and constitutional requirements associated with the Government's financial transactions and accounting arrangements. Honourable members will be aware that the Australian Government's transactions are recorded in 3 separate funds- the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loan Fund and the Trust Fund. Current estimates of the Government's financial transactions indicate that expenditures in 1974-75 on items which would normally be charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund would exceed receipts of that fund. 
The normal procedure followed in the past to cover a prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund has been to charge some expenditures which would normally be met from that Fund to another fund. This Bill is designed to permit such a procedure. The Bill authorises that borrowings be made for defence purposes so that, to the extent necessary, defence expenditures in the remaining months of the year can then be charged to the Loan Fund rather than the Consolidated Revenue Fund, thus avoiding a deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The Bill does not, I should stress, seek to authorise any additional expenditures; its purpose is simply to reallocate part of expenditures on defence services specified in the Appropriation Acts for 1974-75 from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund. 
At this stage of the year, with a high proportion of the year's receipts and expenditures still to be incurred, the size of the prospective Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit is particularly difficult to forecast. For this reason the Bill before the House does not specify a fixed amount of borrowings. Rather, it seeks authority to borrow amounts not in excess of what is considered necessary to avoid a deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Bills making a similar provision were passed by the Parliament in 1 968, 1 970 and 1971. To summarise, the proposed Act is a conventional machinery measure. It does not authorise any increase in expenditures. Its essential purpose is to re-allocate expenditures approved by Parliament between the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the Loan Fund. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
I indicated in an answer to a question some time ago that it was our intention to bring the legislation forward in the early part of 1975. It was hoped that the scheme would apply from 1 July 1975. 1 can assure the honourable member that the fullest details will be given when the Bill is brought down. 
I move: 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, and 2 others that I shall shortly introduce, came before this House earlier in the year. The Senate rejected the Bills but we have decided to seek their passage again. If passed, the Bills will impose a health insurance levy of 1.35 per cent of the taxable incomes, as determined for income tax purposes, of people residing in Australia. The Bills complement other measures designed to implement the Government's universal health insurance scheme. Other basic features of the scheme are, of course, contained in legislation that has been before the Parliament on previous occasions. The levy proposed in the present Bills was discussed in the White Paper on the health insurance program published in November 1973, which was preceded by the report of the Health Insurance Planning Committee. Introduction of the levy is timed to coincide with the coming into operation of the main health insurance legislation. At this stage we would hope to have that legislation effective as from 1 July 1975. However, in the event of some unforseen administrative complexities which may require a slightly later introductory date, the Bills provide for the levy to be payable on taxable income of the 1975-76 income year, but also make provision for the annual rate to be reduced should the scheme not become operative until a little later during that year. In that event, it is intended that the rate applied to 1975-76 taxable incomes will be a proportionate part of the annual rate of 1.35 per cent, determined on a time basis. 
The levy of 1.35 per cent of taxable income will not apply to all taxpayers. At the upper end of the income scale, and on the assumption that the levy will apply for the whole of 1975-76, the maximum amount of levy payable by anyone will be $ 1 50. If the commencement date for the levy were not 1 July 1975 but, say, 1 October 1975, then the maximum amount payable for that year would be $1 12.50- three-quarters of the sum. For low-income taxpayers there are provisions to the effect that a person whose taxable income is less than the minimum subject to income tax- now $1,041- is not liable for the levy. There are also relieving provisions in respect of people maintaining dependants. These will apply to anyone who is entitled for a particular year of income to concessional deductions for maintenance of dependants of an amount of $100 or more. In these cases the levy will not be payable where a person's taxable income is not more than an amount related to the level of the minimum wage and calculated by application of the formula devised by the Planning Committee and explained in its report at pages 44 to 46. If the levy were to be imposed for 1974-75, the threshold for its imposition would in these cases be $2,575 and the legislation specifies this amount as the level below which the levy will not be payable by people with dependants. Provision is also made, however, for the amount to be increased above $2,575 in the light of changes in wage levels that occur before 1 July 1975. 
Another relieving provision related to income levels of particular classes of people concerns aged people. An aged person exempt from income tax by reason of the special transitional tax rebate will also be exempt from health levy. The actual levy-free point for 1975-76 will depend on the amount of the age rebate allowed for income tax purposes in that year. The general principle is, however, that whatever the level of the income tax rebate in 1 975-76, an aged person who is exempt from income tax on account of it will also be exempt from health levy. Provision is also being made to give relief from the levy to certain classes of repatriation beneficiaries. The broad principle is that a repatriation beneficiary who is entitled under repatriation arrangements to full medical treatment for himself for all medical conditions, whether or not war-caused, but who has no dependants, will be completely free from payment of levy. If the beneficiary is entitled to full cover for himself, but has a wife or children, he will be entitled to relief from onehalf of the levy that would otherwise be payable. The question as to whether a case for relief may be made for other classes of people in situations broadly corresponding with those of repatriation beneficiaries is being examined. We are considering to what extent, if any, relief ought to go beyond the ranks of repatriation beneficiaries, and the legislation contains a provision authorising the making of regulations to confer such relief as it may be found appropriate to give. In this context we are giving special attention to pensioners who have an entitlement to free medical attention under the pensioner medical scheme and members of the armed forces. 
A fundamental objective of the legislation is to integrate collection of the levy with the collection of income tax. This has distinct administrative advantages which I am sure I need not labour. Suffice it to say that it is the most economical and sensible course to follow. It does, however, require a number of provisions of a technical kind. Much of what is in the Bills is concerned with these technicalities and explanations of the various provisions are contained in the explanatory memorandum I have arranged for honourable members to receive. I should mention, however, that while the levy will be administered and collected under the income tax system and PA YE deductions from salaries and wages will be increased in 1975-76 to take account of it, provisions in the legislation require a separate identification of the amount of a taxpayer's liability that represents health insurance levy. Thus, for example, the amount payable as the levy will be shown separately on pay-slips, group certificates and taxation notices of assessment. 
The various provisions of the Bill, including the technical parts that provide for levy to be payable on certain income derived by trustees and for people living in the external territories to be exempt, are, as I have already indicated, explained in a memorandum that is being made available to honourable members. In these circumstances, I think I need say no more at this stage about particular features of the Bills. I commend this Bill, the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill, to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lloyd)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In introducing the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill 1974 1 outlined basic features of the proposed health insurance levy. These are contained partly, in that Bill and partly in this Bill-The Health Insurance Levy Bill 1974. This Bill provides the rate of the levy- basically 1.35 per cent of taxable income. It also contains rules for fixing the maximum amount of levy payable and the income points below which some groups of people will not be called on to pay any amount of levy. Explanations of each clause of the Bill are contained in the explanatory memorandum and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lloyd)  adjourned. 
-Imove: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In speaking to the Health Insurance Levy Assessment BUI 1974 1 mentioned that the levy is to be imposed on people residing in Australia and that its collection is to be integrated with the collection of income tax. Australia's double taxation agreements provide, among other things, that Australians who receive income from overseas that is included in their taxable income are to be entitled to a credit for foreign tax on the income. This Bill will ensure that the arrangements for relief of double taxation apply to both income tax and health insurance levy. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lloyd)  adjourned. 
I am sure that the honourable member is aware that currently the question of the disposition of gold in Australia is covered by the provisions of Part IV of the Banking Act. Broadly, the provisions have the effect that dealings in gold are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, newly won gold must be delivered to the Bank and individual persons may not have gold. That is the situation as it historically applies. However, as honourable members know, the question of the role of gold in the future still has some important international monetary characteristics, although it is true that the monetary role of gold has declined over recent years. Many governments still continue to be very firm holders of gold. Two examples of this, for instance- rather diverse- are Italy and Austria, which hold a fair proportion of their total reserves in the form of gold. This is done despite the fact that in recent years private demand has by and large absorbed virtually the whole of the gold production of the Western economies. The majority of countries continue to maintain restrictions or prohibitions on the private holdings of gold by their citizens. The honourable member may be aware that as from 1 January 1975, America will relax those provisions and allow private citizens to purchase gold objects. 
With regard to Australia's position, I can inform the honourable member that the issues involved, some of which are very complex and require careful consideration, in allowing Australian residents to hold and deal in gold, are currently being examined by the Government. Meanwhile however, I would point out under the existing arrangements Australian gold producers are able to obtain the going world price for the sale of their current production of gold both in overseas markets and for industrial use in Australia. But, as I indicated, we are looking at the situation. I know the honourable member's interest in this matter and if I am able to advise him further soon I shall do so. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to borrowings overseas by the Australian Government, as required for the purpose of assisting the Australian Industry Development Corporation to carry out the functions prescribed in section 6 of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970-1973. The Bill will enable industry developments approved by the AIDC to be assisted with funds not ordinarily available except through borrowings by the Government itelf. The structure of the Bill is similar to legislation approved by Parliament on numerous occasions for the raising of loans by Australia for the financing of capital expenditures by the government owned airlines, Qantas Airways and Trans-Australia Airlines. The Australian Government will be the borrower and the proceeds of the loans will be made available to the AIDC on terms and conditions to be determined by the Treasurer pursuant to clause 7 of the Bill. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970-1973 limits the total amount of borrowings by the Corporation, other than borrowings for temporary purposes, to the equivalent of five times the sum of the paid in capital of the Corporation and the amount set aside by it as reserves. The Act also requires that the Corporation, in exercising its powers to borrow moneys, shall seek to borrow moneys principally outside Australia. The limitation in the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act on the amount the Corporation may borrow would not be affected in any way by the provisions in the present Bill. Insofar as the Government borrowed and on-lent the proceeds to the AIDC the latter transaction would be a borrowing by the AIDC and would reduce the legal scope available to it for undertaking other borrowings. The Bill provides that loans made to the AIDC from the proceeds of borrowings made in currencies other than Australian currency shall, for the purposes of sub-section 7 (4) of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970-1973, be deemed to be borrowings by the Corporation outside Australia. This is fully consistent with the intention of the 1970 Act that funds for the AIDC's operations should be obtained principally from abroad. If some of the funds available to the AIDC are obtained by the Government borrowing these funds abroad and on-lending them to the AIDC, this will not alter the proportion of its total borrowings that could be raised from local sources from what it would be if the Corporation itself directly borrowed those funds overseas. 
Conditions now facing us in the international capital market are in many ways very different from those that existed when the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970 was enacted. In particular, while there are potentially large amounts of money that will be available for lending, there are not many lenders who are prepared to provide funds other than on a relatively short term basis and the ones who have the most substantial amounts of funds at their disposal have a definite preference for making loans to governments or under government guarantee. There are advantages to be gained by having such overseas borrowings as it is appropriate to have undertaken on public account arranged and undertaken by the Australian Government itself. The Australian Government, with its high credit ratings and prestige in international capital markets, is better placed to tap overseas sources of funds in a way most advantageous for Australia than is any other Australian borrower, be it a public authority or not. On the other hand it would be undesirable if the AIDC, set up to operate independently of Government direction, were to become dependent on borrowings undertaken by the Government and on-lent to the Corporation. There is no requirement or intention, however, that all overseas borrowings for the purposes of the AIDC should be undertaken by the Government. The Corporation was set up to be, and has become established as, a prime borrower in international capital markets for Australian industry. 
To illustrate, the AIDC has just announced a United States dollar public issue of 7-year AIDC Notes in the European capital market. The amount is US$25m- approximately $A19mwhich makes it one of the largest United States dollar issues on the market in the conditions of today. The interest coupon of 10.25 per cent is equal to that of international issuers guaranteed by national governments. And the AIDC Notes are the first of any recent United States dollar issue in Europe to be priced at par rather than at a discount. It is not proposed that the AIDC be relieved of the responsibility for arranging its own borrowings in those markets or from those sources that are open to it to approach direct in the ordinary course of its operations. However there are today major and growing sources of overseas funds, particularly sources of a governmental nature, where by reasons of law or established rules or policies it could be difficult if not impossible for the AIDC, acting alone, to gain access. Countries around the world are taking steps to tap these sources for their industries. It is important that Australian industry should also have access to them. The Bill will enable the Government to work with the AIDC by raising funds from such sources and making them available for industry development of importance to Australia. 
The proposed legislation includes a limit of $250m to the total amount of borrowings that might be undertaken by the Government under it. It will be noted that no time limit for the borrowings is specified. The timing and magnitude of particular borrowings will, of course, have to be related both to prospective requirements of AIDC in respect of planned programs of investment by it and to the particular borrowing opportunities available from time to time. It is expected that the proposed total borrowing authority of $250m will be only partly utilised in the current financial year, but the existence of this authority will make it possible for the Government to act quickly to take advantage of emergent borrowing opportunities when it judges this appropriate, and will facilitate forward programming by the AIDC for its investments. With legislation for certain borrowings from the United States Export-Import Bank and with guarantees to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for borrowings by Papua New Guinea, it has been possible to schedule to the legislation the agreements for the loans. This is because these lending institutions have been prepared to approve the loans and sign the loan agreements prior to the legislation authorising them being introduced into the Parliament, with the loans being drawn when the necessary legislation is enacted. However, with loans in the international capital market, a loan must be drawn as soon as it is negotiated and the agreement signed, so legislation must be enacted prior to the negotiation of the loans, which means that it is not possible to present the text of the agreements to Parliament for approval. 
Any borrowings that are undertaken by the Government under the proposed legislation will, of course, require the prior approval of the Australian Loan Council. The Bill contains provisions which would allow the customary undertakings to be given, to lenders that payments under the loans will be free from Australian taxation and from foreign exchange restrictions. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
I do have information concerning the quarterly payment of company taxation in respect of those assessments that were due on 15 November. I repeat that the amounts are legally due and payable. Notices requiring payment of the instalment of tax on 15 November 1974 were issued by the Taxation Office to 64,584 companies, and the amount was a total of $484m. Twenty-five per cent of those companies, that is, one quarter of the number, have lodged applications to have the amount of the instalment reduced to reflect lower 1973-74 income. That was an option which the companies had. If they believed that their incomes for 1973-74 were lower than for 1 972-73 they could apply for a variation, and one quarter of them did so. Of the remainder, 68 per cent have paid the assessments in full. So if one adds the 68 per cent which have paid in full to the 25 per cent which have applied for reductions, one is pretty close to the total number of companies concerned. 
The 68 per cent of all companies have paid $3 12m, which is some two-thirds of the total amount due and payable. Of the remainder, 4 per cent have applied for an extension of time and their assessments total $61m. The applications for extension are being examined by the Taxation Office. The honourable gentleman will know that a company's financial circumstances are examined by the Taxation Office before a decision is taken on any request for an extension. I am assured by the Commissioner of Taxationbecause I do not deal with the applications individually; they are dealt with by the Commissionerthat where a company has a good case for an extension of time its application is treated sympathetically. 
Over the weekend the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement in the television program 'Federal File' concerning what he described as favourable treatment in relation to what is known as the John Curtin House Appeal. I wish to set the record straight about this matter. At the end of what I have said I propose to ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a letter which I have received from the Commissioner of Taxation,  Sir Edward  Cain, a transcript of the 'Federal File' interview and a full copy of the letter which was sent to  Mr T.  Kavanagh, the Secretary of the John Curtin House Appeal. How the honourable member got a copy of it I do not know but I wish that, having got it, he had quoted the whole of it instead of only selectively from it. I shall also seek leave to incorporate 2 short extracts from - 
I will be seeking it at the completion of my remarks. 
I am merely indicating that they are documents - 
I will give the honourable member a copy as soon as I am able. I wish to refer to it. I am merely indicating that they are documents from which I am going to quote. It would place the whole story on record if they were to be incorporated in Hansard. 
The honourable member can have the copy I have as long as he returns it to me. 
-I gather that the honourable member does not want a copy of the 'Federal File' transcript; he is well aware of that. I have been asked from time to time in this House whether I have any intention of varying the provisions under which gifts are allowable under the Income Tax Assessment Act and 1 have indicated that I have no such intention. The provisions under which gifts arc allowable are covered by section 78 ( 1 ) (a) of the Income Tax Assessment 
Act, which is a section which covers nearly 4 pages of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I will seek leave to have that section incorporated also. Broadly, gifts are allowable in respect of donations to public hospitals, to a public benevolent institution or to a public fund that was established in certain conditions and eight or nine other sub-headings. Then a number of specific funds are listed. There is quite a number, including the Royal Australian College of Surgeons, the Sydney Opera House Appeal Fund, and so on. There are approximately 45 of those. In addition there is section 51 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Section 5 1 is a short section and I will quote it because it deals with what can be described as business expenditure. It states: 
All losses and outgoings to the extent to which they are incurred in gaining or producing the assessable income, or are necessarily incurred in carrying on a business for the purpose of gaining or producing such income, shall be allowable deductions except to the extent to which they are losses or outgoings of capital, or of a capital, private or domestic nature, or are incurred in relation to the gaining or production of exempt income. 
That is a fairly broad section. Under it a number of cases have been decided in the courts as to whether donations that are made by business undertakings for what might be called charitable or other purposes, including John Curtin House or even including John McEwen House - 
Because the honourable member at the table chose to suggest that somehow the treatment for John Curtin House was different from that for John McEwen House. 
I am trying to suggest that it is not. If honourable members opposite, as individuals, made donations to John McEwen House they would not be allowable. If donations are made by my colleagues, as they are, to John Curtin House they will not be allowable as deductions. 
Because they do not come within the provisions of section 78(1), which I will seek leave to incorporate. That may be somewhat of a disappointment to some of my colleagues who have made donations of substantial sums. Donations which were made by certain organisations, mostly companies or businesses, could have been allowed in respect of John McEwen House. They may be allowed for John Curtin House. Let us be objective about this matter. Honourable members opposite do not know whether donations made by particular firms to John McEwen House were allowable because they are matters between the Commissioner of Taxation and the firm itself. 
Honourable members opposite do not know. There is a great habit on that side of the House of asseverating that something is different if it is done by the Labor Party than it is if it is done by another Party. The law is no different in December 1974 when donations to the John Curtin Appeal are under consideration than it was when donations to McEwen House were under consideration. 
There is no difference in the interpretation. That is what is in the letter. What I resent is that people are suggesting that pressure has been placed upon the Commissioner of Taxation to treat the appeal for John Curtin House differently from the appeal for McEwen House. I give the lie direct to that. That is why I have asked that the letter from the Commissioner himself be incorporated in Hansard. 
The honourable gentleman did not quote something else during the interview for the television program the other night. All that had been sought by  Mr Kavanagh-  he has nothing to do with  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs- who is the secretary of the John Curtin House Appeal was to ask the Commissioner of Taxation what the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act were. He spelt them out quite specifically. This is the bit - 
I intend to table the letter to  Mr Kavanagh. 
-No, I do not have the letter from  Mr Kavanagh.  I have had one experience in the Parliament of being accused of making an innuendo. I am not making an innuendo. I am simply trying to put on the record what ought to be put on the record. If the honourable member wants the provisions of section 5 1 of the Income Tax Act altered, he should set about to have them altered. But he did not alter them in the past and those provisions prevail in the same way now. This is the relevant part of the letter that was not quoted during the television interview the other night. It states: 
The question whether a gift made to the Appeal would qualify for deduction under this provision, is a matter which  can be determined only in the light of the facts of each particular case. It is accordingly not practicable to indicate in advance any ruling which would be capable of general application. 
The letter concludes by stating specifically: 
As you know, the Appeal does not satisfy any of the requirements of section 78 ( 1 ) (a) of the Act. For this reason, gifts made to the Appeal by taxpayers not carrying on a business, for example, taxpayers whose income is derived wholly from salary or investments will not in any event be allowable deductions. 
That is specific enough. So far as section 5 1 of the Act is concerned the case is no different for John Curtin House from what it was for McEwen House. I quote only 2 cases and they both go back a long time. One of them concerns Starke J. who has been removed from the scene for some years. The other was from Latham C. J., a very fine man for whom I had the greatest respect even though he belonged to the other side of politics at one stage. These 2 cases concerned section 51 of the Act as to whether items that would not be allowed specifically under section 78 ( 1 ) (a) nevertheless may be deductions which can be classified as business expenses in terms of section 5 1 of the Act. The first case, the Federal Commissioner of Taxation v. Gordon, is reported in volume 43 of Commonwealth Law Reports at page 456. The report states: 
So far as the matter of law, money expended, not of necessity but voluntarily, and on the grounds of commercial expediency, and in order to protect or facilitate the carrying on of a business may be incurred in gaining or producing the income arising from that business. 
The second case is Sun Newspapers Ltd v. The Federal Commissioner of Taxation. It is reported in volume 61, Commonwealth Law Reports, page 337. The appropriate words to quote are these: 
But the payment was plainly made as a payment which was expedient for business purposes and the fact that it was made voluntarily does not exclude the possibility of it being an allowable deduction. 
I simply cite this as the law. 
The second one was Sun Newspaper Ltd v. the Federal Commissioner of Taxation, reported in Vol. I, Commonwealth Law Reports, at page 337. 
I cannot tell the honourable member the year but I indicate that it was Latham, Chief Justice, so at least it was prior to the Labor Government. Section 5 1 in the Act is identical now with what it was when the McEwen House appeal was opened. 
I suggest again that this is a matter for the Commissioner of Taxation and the particular firms which contributed to it. I am in no position to say whether company A which subscribed to McEwen House was able to claim the amount as a deduction from tax, neither is the honourable member for Chisolm  (Mr Staley)  and neither is anybody in the Country Party. They may believe that that was the case but they do not know. As the honourable gentleman on the front bench says- I respect his view- he made a donation himself, but it is not allowable, any more than is that of my colleagues. But if a particular company chooses to make a donation it can include it in its tax return alongside other contributions made and the Commissioner of Taxation, in his discretion, can decide whether the amount is an allowable deduction. I simply indicate that there are plenty of cases where nobody, least of all the honourable member for Wannon, can assert that deductions for McEwen House were or were not allowed, or can assert that deductions claimed for donations to John Curtin House will be allowable. I sometimes wish in regard to this sort of thing that the former Prime Minister, the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  at least would be a little objective and not so highly political in his observations. I am trying to clear up something which I regard as a dirty sort of innuendo which ought never to have been made in the first place, least of all on television. 
-I think that at times there is room for moral indignation in this Parliament. 
The law is no different in 1 974 in respect to the John Curtin House appeal than it was when the John McEwen House appeal was under way. I simply say to honourable members opposite that they do not know, because it is a matter as between the Commissioner of Taxation and the person who made the donation, whether it was allowed for taxation purposes. There could well have been some instances where it was allowed and there could well have been others where it was not allowed. It may well be that no deductions were allowed. When it is said in advance that somehow pressure is being brought on this occasion to make the Commissioner of Taxation act differently from what the law says, I think it demands some son of explanation here. 
The whole of the gift provision in the Income Tax Act is rather curious. What is included is in the Act sometimes not for the best of reasons, but  it is there. What is excluded is left out sometimes not for the best of reasons either. But 1 believe that when the wells of charity, which are supposed to be what we are talking about in connection with gifts, are muddied by the odd waters of whether things are tax deductible, we are making a travesty of charity. But the question here is whether donations in respect of John Curtin House are allowable. They are not allowable in respect of individuals. I put that on record categorically. They may be allowable- as they could have been allowable in the case of John McEwen House-in respect of companies claiming under section 5 1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. The legal position is no different now from what it was then. But there should be no suggestion that somehow pressure has been brought upon the Commissioner of Taxation, a man for whom I have the highest regard as I do for all the officers of the Taxation Office. If I may say so here in my last few days as Treasurer, these remarks apply to every officer in the Treasury as far as the carrying out of their individual duties are concerned. They are people of integrity. They are not people who bow to political favouritism or anything else. They interpret the Income Tax Act and I cannot instruct them and I do not want to instruct them. 
Finally, I seek leave, as I indicated earlier, to incorporate in Hansard the full text of  Sir Edward's  remarks, the relevant part of the transcript of the 'Federal File' interview, the letter in which  Mr J.  W. Curtin, the First Assistant Commissioner replied to  Mr Kavanagh-  I do not have  Mr Kavanagh  's original letter; I have not sought it- the 2 short extracts from the Commonwealth Law Reports and the full text of section 51 and sections 78(1) (a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. I think those incorporations complete a story. At least those who read them may understand the situation better than from reading what is reported in the Press where one reads only what happens to be written. 
Letter from  Sir Edward  Cain 
In a television interview presented on 'Federal File' last night, the honourable J. M. Fraser, M.P., quoted from a letter written from this office concerning the circumstances under which income tax deductions may be allowed for gifts made to the John Curtin House Appeal.  Mr Fraser  questioned the correctness of the interpretation given and also suggested that the Taxation Office may have been subjected to pressure from the Government. 
I am enclosing a copy of the transcript from ' Federal File' and also a copy of the letter which issued from this office on 28 October 1974. 
This letter referred to the provision under which deductions may be allowed for expenses which are incurred in carrying on a business. There is ample case law which supports the proposition that expenditure which is incurred voluntarily and on the grounds of commercial expediency may qualify for deduction under the general provisions of section 51. The advice given to the Secretary of the John Curtin House Appeal did not break any new ground in the interpretation of the taxing law. It was also subject to the reservation, not mentioned by  Mr Fraser,  that the question whether deductions would be allowable would depend on the facts of each particular case and, for this reason, no general ruling could be given. 
I am satisfied that the advice given from this office is correct in principle and accords with long established departmental practice. There is, of course, no substance in the suggestion that any pressure was exerted on myself or any of my officers when the matter was under consideration. 'Federal File' Transcript 

 Mr WALEY: Mr Fraser . . . taxation deductions for donations to the John Curtin House as being tax deductible. 

 Mr FRASER: Well I've got a letter here, a photostat copy of a letter which is addressed to a  Mr T.  Cavanaugh as secretary to the John Curtin House appeal. The letter is signed . . . dated- the twenty-eighth of October this year, and signed J. W. Curtin, First Assistant Commissioner. The object of . . . a paragraph of that letter, the third paragraph, indicates in plain terms that large business organisations often make donations as a form of advertising. The letter goes on to say because of the wide publicity the cause will give to donors to the appeal it is thought that taxpayers carrying on business operations would have little difficulty in establishing gifts were for bona fide purposes. In other words, because the donors are going to have their names published as donors to the John Curtin appeal, it is therefore an allowable form of advertising, and therefore an allowable deduction. 

 Mr WALEY: Why do you specifically object to this though? 

 Mr FRASER: Well 1 think it is quite wrong for the general public to subsidise the building of a political centre. A political building. I think this is utterly wrong, for a little earlier the Government was considering and may still be considering cutting out deductions for charities for hospitals, and you know, that's a very worthwhile purpose. Political parties in my book, ought to stand in their own right. 

 Mr WALEY: Is it not sour grapes over details involving the John McEwan House? 

 Mr FRASER: Well I wouldn't have thought so. I understand that was looked at, at the time, but people thought it would be quite improper for general taxpayers to- subsidise the building of a political centre. In my view, I think it's an outrageous proposal, and you know, if this is a correct interpretation  or  the law, I believe the law ought to be changed. 

 Mr WALEY: How seriously do you rate this? 

 Mr FRASER: I regard it as very serious. I really do. 

 Mr WALEY: Can you go so far as to suggest the Government is leaning on the taxation department as far as this is concerned. 

 Mr FRASER: Well we've seen how the Government has leant, is leaning on the Arbitration Commission, meant to be equally independent from the taxation commissions, and I think it is certainly open to that suggestion. 
Letter to  Mr Kavanagh  28 October 1974 

 Mr J. Kavanagh, 
Secretary, 
John Curtin House Appeal, 
P.O. Box 465. 
Civic Square, 
Canberra City, A.C.T. 260 1 
Dear  Sir, 
Income Tax: John Curtin House Appeal 
As arranged at your recent discussion with the Commissioner, the following information is supplied in relation to the allowance of income tax deductions for gifts made to the John Curtin House Appeal. 
Under the provisions of section 5 1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, deductions are allowed for outgoings incurred in producing assessable income or which are necessarily incurred in carrying on a business for that purpose, except to the extent to which the outgoings are of a capital, private or domestic nature. The question whether a gift made to the Appeal would qualify for deduction under this provision is a matter which can be determined only in the light of the facts of each particular case. It is accordingly not practicable to indicate in advance any ruling which would be capable of general application. 
It is recognised, of course, that large business organisations often make donations as a form of advertising and, in this situation, deductions would ordinarily be allowable in terms of section 51. In view of the widespread publicity which it is proposed to give to donors, it is thought that taxpayers carrying on business operations would have little difficulty in establishing that the gifts were made solely for business purposes and would qualify as allowable income tax deductions. 
As you know, the Appeal does not satisfy any of the requirements of section 78 ( 1 ) (a) of the Act. For this reason, gifts made to the Appeal by taxpayers not carrying on a business, for example, taxpayers whose income is derived wholly from salary or investments, will not in any event be allowable deductions. 
Yours faithfully, 
J.W. Curtin 
First Assistant Commissioner 
Commonwealth Law Reports: Excerpts 
FCT v Gordon (43 CLR 456) 
So far as the matter is one of law, money expended not of necessity but voluntarily, and on the grounds of commercial expediency, and in order to protect or facilitate the carrying on of a business may be incurred in gaining or producing the income arising from that business (per Starke, J.).' 
Sun Newspaper Ltd v FCT (61 CLR 337) 
But the payment was plainly made as a payment which was expedient for business purposes and the fact that it was made voluntarily does not exclude the possibility of it being an allowable deduction (per Latham, C.J.). ' 
Sections of Taxation Legislation. 
( 1 ) All losses and outgoings to the extent to which they are incurred in gaining or producing the assessable income, or are necessarily incurred in carrying on a business for the purpose of gaining or producing such income, shall be allowable deductions except to the extent to which they are losses or outgoings of capital, or of a capital, private or domestic nature, or arc incurred in relation to the gaining or production of exempt income. 
Expenditure incurred or deemed to have been incurred in the purchase of stock used by the taxpayer as trading stock shall be deemed not to be an outgoing of capital or of a capital nature. 78. (1) The following shall, subject to section seventyseven sub-section (11) of section seventy-seven D and section seventy-nine of this Act, be allowable deductions: 
Gifts (not being testamentary gifts) of the value of Two dollars and upwards of money or of property other than money which was purchased by thetaxpayer within twelve months immediately preceding the making of the gift, made by the taxpayer in the year of income to any of the following funds, authorities or institutions in Australia: 
a public hospital, or a hospital which is carried on by a society or association otherwise than for the purposes of profit or gain to the individual members of that society or association; 
a public benevolent institution; 
a public fund established before the twentythird day of October, One thousand nine hundred and sixty-three and maintained for the purpose of providing money for hospitals or institutions specified in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) of this paragraph, or for the establishment of such hospitals or institutions, or a public fund established and maintained for the relief of persons in Australia who are in necessitous circumstances; 
a public authority engaged in research into the causes, prevention or cure of disease in human beings, animals or plants, where the gift is for such research, or a public institution engaged solely in such research; 
v) a public university or a public fund for the establishment of a public university; 
a residential educational institution affiliated under statutory provisions with a public university, or established by the Commonwealth; 
a public fund established and maintained for providing money for the construction or maintenance of a public memorial relating to the war which commenced on the fourth day of August. One thousand nine hundred and fourteen or the third day of September, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine; 
a public institution or public fund established and maintained for the comfort, recreation or welfare of members of the armed forces of any part of His Majesty's dominions, or of any allied or other foreign force serving in association with His Majesty's armed forces; 
the Commonwealth or a State, when made for purposes of defence; 
a university, college, institute, association or organization which is an approved research institute for the purposes of section seventy-three  a  of this Act, where the gift is for purposes of scientific research as defined in that section; 
the United Nations Appeal forChildren; 
the Queen Elizabeth the Second Coronation Gift Fund: 
the Australia Elizabethan Theatre Trust; 
the Australian Academy of Science; 
a public fund established and maintained exclusively for providing money for the acquisition, construction or maintenance of a building used or to be used as a school or college by a government or public authority or by a society or association which is carried on otherwise than for the purposes of profit or gain to the individual members of that society or association; 
the Duke of Edinburgh's Study Conference Account maintained by the Department of Labor and National Service; 
the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science; 
the Australian Administrative Staff College; 
the Commonwealth, when made for the purposes of research in the Australian Antarctic Territory; 
the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons; 
the Royal Australasian College of Physicians; 
the Australian Regional Council of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists; 
the New South Wales College of Nursing; 
the College of Nursing, Australia; 
the Council for Christian Education in Schools; 
the National Trust of Australia (New South Wales), the National Trust of Australia (Victoria), The National Trust of Queensland, The National Trust of South Australia, The National Trust of Australia (W.A.), the National Trust of Australia (Tasmania), the Northern Territory National Trust and the Australian Council of National Trusts; 
a public library, public museum or public art gallery, or an institution consisting of a public library, public museum and public art gallery or of any two of them; ( xxviii) the Sydney Opera House Appeal Fund; 
the Sidney Myer Music Bowl Trust; 
the Industrial Design Council of Australia; 
a public fund established and maintained extensively for the purpose of providing money to be used in furnishing persons in Australia with marriage guidance through a voluntary organization or through a branch or section of such an organisation being an organisation, branch or section that the Attorney-General, upon being satisfied that the organization, branch or section is willing and able to engage in marriage guidance and that marriage guidance constitutes  or  will constitute the whole or the major part of its activities, has approved in writing for the purposes of this sub-paragraph; 
the Australian National Committee for World Refugee Year; 
the Council for Jewish Education in Schools; 
the Art Gallery Society of New South Wales; 
the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia; 
the Australian Postgraduate Federation of Medicine, the College of Radiologists of Australasia, the Australian College of General Practitioners and the College of Pathologists of Australia, where the gift is for the purpose of eduction or research in medical knowledge or science; 
the Ian Clunies Ross Memorial Foundation; (xxxviii) the Australian National Committee for the Freedom from Hunger Campaign; 
the Australian Institute of International Affairs; 
the Australian National Travel Association; 
the National Safety Council of Australia; 
xlii) the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust; 
a prescribed institution of advanced education where the gift is for certified purposes of the institution or for the provision of certified facilities for the institution; 
the Australian Conservation Foundation Incorporated, or to a public fund established and maintained under a will or instrument of trust exclusively for the purpose of providing money, property or benfits to or for funds authorities or institutions referred to, and for the purposes (if any) referred to, in any of the subparagraphs of this paragraph, or for the establishment of such funds, authorities or institutions, being a public fund as to which the Commissioner is satisfied that the terms of the will or instrument of trust are such that any moneys (including income derived from investments and proceeds of the realization of investments) paid or accrued to the fund as a direct or indirect result of the particular gift and not applied for the purposes of the fund may not be invested by the trustee otherwise than in a manner in which trustees are permitted by an Act, a State Act or a law of a Territory of the Commonwealth to invest trust moneys without special authorization; 

 Mr MALCOLM ERASER (Wannon)-Mr  Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has obtained from the State Treasuries the information sought  by  the right honourable member. The material is very detailed and voluminous and I doubt whether it would be appropriate or necessary to have it incorporated in Hansard. I am forwarding a copy to the right honourable member, copies are available to other honourable members on request. 
Convention on the Political Rights of Women (Question No. 657) 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is yes. 
Government supporters- Ah! 
As I indicated yesterday, the deductions were legitimately claimed in terms of section 5 1 of the Income Tax Act. If T may cite as an example, I happen to have in my own electorate a charitable organisation, conducted by the South Melbourne Council, called the South Melbourne Community Chest. If I made a donation to that organisation, it would not be allowed under section 78 ( 1 ) (a). No individual can claim it. However, if a firm operating in the district made a donation to it, it could legitimately be claimed under section 51. This is all I sought to point out yesterday. There is no difference in the Act in 1 974 from what was in the Act when John McEwen House was constructed. 
It is all right for the honourable gentleman to get indignant. I accept his belief that no individual could claim and that the Commissioner of Taxation could not give any different assurance to him about John McEwen House than was given in the letter written by  Mr Curtin,  a First Assistant Commissioner, quoted yesterday in this House- and, if I may say, quoted selectively the other evening on television writing what the general position was. He explained quite specifically that nobody- no individual- can claim a deduction under section 78 (1) (a), but whether deductions could be claimed under section 51 would rest upon the merits of the case. 
I am not disputing what advice was given. I quoted a number of legal cases yesterday. They simply show, as happens in so many cases, that the courts interpret the letter of the law. I will have to alter the Income Tax Act, or my successor will, shortly to correct what I think is an unscrupulous practice being pursued by certain individuals in respect of bonus shares. I propose to alter the Act. All I say is that section 51, like so many other sections in the Income Tax Act, is interpreted not only as to what is written in the law but as to what is decided from time to time by the courts of this country. 
For the benefit of the honourable member, I repeat that certain things are listed specifically in section 78(1) (a). John McEwen House was not one. John Curtin House is not one. There is no intention to alter section 78 ( 1) (a) in respect of John Curtin House. But, as far as section 51 of the Act is concerned, not only the words but also the interpretation that the courts have put upon it are important. I will not mention any names. All I am saying is that nobody in this House knows whether or not - 
You are asseverating quite certainly something about which you cannot be certain. 
I am surprised also about the Melbourne 'Age' editorial in this matter. It is another example - 
It is another example of what I might call selective reporting. I cited yesterday the case of another newspaper which was able to avail itself of an interpretation of section 51. This was something which was voluntary but which was, nevertheless, regarded as having some commercial value to the firm which made the donation. It was allowed under section 5 1 . That was quite true of John McEwen House. I shall not mention the headquarters of the honourable member's party, and I shall not name any firms, but if firm A made a donation- I have cited the South Melbourne Community Chest as an example of the variety of things - 
If a deduction is claimed by a firm in respect of John McEwen House or John Curtin House, in some circumstances it may be allowed by the Commissioner of Taxation. 
I will not mention any names, and I have never sought particular names, but some donations claimed by firms as having been made to John McEwen House were in fact allowed as tax deductions. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the International Monetary Agreements Act 1947, 1 present the report on the operations of that Act and of the operations, insofar as they relate to Australia, of the International Monetary Fund and of the International Bank For Reconstruction and Development for the year ended 30 June 1 974. 
Pursuant to section 14 (2) of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1 948- 1 973, 1 present the second report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board dealing with the administration of part III of the Act for the period I July 1973 to 30 June 1974. 
in reply- For the comfort of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  I remind him that I once said in this House that there is nobody more faceless than the writer of an editorial, and sometimes nobody more morally pontificating without identification. Perhaps I am a little personal about editorials at the moment. I thank honourable members who have participated in this debate. I accept the rebuke that it was hoped that fresh legislation would have been brought before the Parliament earlier than was the case. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  has not been very long in this House. He would know if he had been here for the last 10 years that there were plenty of pieces of legislation that were promised quickly but which, for more than one reason, took a long time to get onto the statute books. 
I appreciate the remarks of my colleague from Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who has at least praised the workings of the mechanism although, like others, he has pointed to some of its deficiencies. I simply say here that what was virtually a makeshift piece of legislation, prepared by the previous Government more because of public outcry that something had not been done than with any very careful thinking through of the legislation, has been able to achieve quite a lot in the takeover field. I think one great deficiency was that before this legislation was even conceived most of what was worth taking over in Australia had already been taken over and the big fish had already got not through the holes in the net but had got through in the absence of any net. 
I hope that new legislation will be available early in the 1975 session because the drafting of it is quite well advanced. When it is understood that such intricate pieces of legislation as those dealing with non-bank financial institutions, restrictive trade practices, amendments to company provisions and so on have been introduced it will be realised that the draftsmen who operate in this area have been fully occupied. I had hoped that I might have been able to indicate broadly the lines upon which the new legislation would proceed. I may even yet take that opportunity so that at least those who are interested in the details will have some idea as to what is involved and Opposition members as well as people outside may be able at least to examine the framework and suggest whether they think it goes far enough. 
I am pleased to say that both sides of the House accept that the legislation has a deficiency in that it allows for companies to be taken over by means of assets rather than by the acquiring of equity. I am pleased to see that there is on the Opposition side of the House a realisation of that deficiency. It is one of the deficiencies which we intend to remedy. One other important area, to which the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  referred, is the need to see that not too much more is taken over and that perhaps we should attempt to buy back a little. One of the deficiencies in the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act at the moment is that it does not cover the takeover of one foreign company, so-called under the Act, by another. That also will be looked at critically in the proposed new legislation. 
I thank those on both sides who took part in the debate for their evident interest in the matter. It is a highly significant field. I assure honourable members that new legislation will be introduced quite early in the next session. At least one blessing of new sessions is that the notice paper is not cluttered up and there is a greater opportunity to debate things fully than at the end of a session. In the absence of the honourable member for Bradfield, who has now returned to the chamber, I said that had he been a member of this House for 10 years rather than for less than a few months he might have known that there were plenty of examples of legislation introduced by the previous Government which took a long time to pass through the stages of gestation and fructification. That is true of both sides of the House. But I assure the honourable member again that new legislation will be introduced as early as is possible. Either I or my successor may take the opportunity within the next week or two to say something about the outline of the proposed legislation so that at least it can be considered. 
On one night recently I spoke at a meeting and indicated that we were contemplating bringing out a handbook indicating the procedures currently followed by the committees. I pay tribute to the honourable member for Adelaide, to  Mr .Sharah  and to  Mr Besley,  the head of the Foreign Investment Division of the Treasury, who at least have talked to groups throughout Australia when requested and talked to those who are involved. There were a lot of legalities in the procedures, as honourable members know. Those gentlemen have endeavoured to indicate to people what the situation is. A body of case law has almost evolved around the procedures that have already been established. I hope that perhaps early in 1975 we will have a handbook that will indicate to those who are interested the various procedures and so on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply- I am pleased to know after all that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  will not oppose the Loan Bill. He rather ridiculed the suggestion that the Bill is a machinery measure. I said that it was not unique in the sense that there had been measures of this kind in the past. I remember on one occasion when 1 was sitting where the honourable gentleman is sitting now. I never rose to the great eminence of being leader of my Party, but I was its shadow Treasurer for a long time and I listened from the other side of the House as I listened today to the honourable gentleman. I remember  Mr Howson  who was, I think, Minister assisting the Treasurer at the time bringing in a Bill, in much the same terms as the Bill before the House today, requesting a sum of $400m. The amount of $400m in the days that he asked for it- some five or six years ago- was not substantially different from the sum of $700m that the honourable member has chosen to work on today. 
I think that the honourable gentleman's speech today was a little better than his speeches have been on some other occasions. I have always done as I believe ought to be done in the Parliament, that is, I have allowed honourable members on the Opposition side of the Parliament access to Treasury officials. The honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  asked me for this. I am quite sure that at least the honourable gentleman will concede to me that I have never been reluctant to let officials talk over technical details with honourable members on his side of the House. I cannot say that that courtesy was always extended to me when I had the position that  Mr Lynch  now has. At least, it has always been extended to honourable members opposite. 
The right honourable member was not very long in that position. In any case, as I say, I have not been reluctant to do it. I hope that I will not be reluctant to do it wherever I may be in the future. As far as this measure is concerned, no sum is mentioned in it because, as the honourable gentleman knows, it is a little uncertain at this point what the expenditures and revenues of the Government will be in the next 6 months. I do not think anyone discounts the seriousness of the amount of unemployment that exists in Australia at the moment. Again, that position is not unique to Australia. At least the Government is prepared to ameliorate the circumstances of those who are unemployed. There may well be considerable expenditure not yet provided for but which might have to be incurred in regard to schemes like the Regional Employment Development scheme and structural adjustments. So there is uncertainty on the side of expenditure. There is equally uncertainty on the side of revenue. Not only did the Budget posit a certain level of average weekly earnings; it also probably posited a somewhat lower rate of unemployment than now exists. In consequence, revenues may not be quite as high as some people suggest. 
I point out that the honourable gentleman obtained the figure of $ 1,850m as the potential deficit only because I gave that figure to him myself. He made his own calculations. At the time he made them he was aware of some figures of which I was aware. Those figures related to the additional assistance to be given to wool growers. Additional assistance may yet have to be given to beef producers. I hope that if and when that expenditure comes before the Parliament there will not be a resentment on that side of the House to concede additional expenditure. 
Exactly, all I am suggesting is that the figure of $ 1,850m does not include only the annual items. It includes items that are in the form of loans. As I have said, the amount of money to be put into the wool industry will be $350m when other legislation passes through the other place. I am optimistic enough to think that some of that $350m will be recouped before 30 June of next year. I hope that the honourable member shares my optimism. In fact, I had the rather curious example the other day of the representatives of a firm, which I will not name because I do not think that would be fair, telling me that it could not afford to buy raw wool or greasy wool. I said that I had something like 800,000 bales of the wretched stuff in hock at that moment. I told them that we ought to be able to do a little bit of cross-bookkeeping, to use the honourable member's term. 
It is easy to talk about printing money and manipulating finance when honourable members opposite are in the position they are in. In many respects the art of government is manipulating finances, but manipulating them sensibly and not concealing the manipulation. At least there is no attempt here on my part to conceal what is being done. It is true, as the honourable gentleman said, that because of arrangements made between this level of government and the States a long time ago- long before my time and long before his time- it was soon established that there would be no surplus revenues so far as the Commonwealth was concerned. Those sums of money were merely transferred to another account. What is forgotten is that there is some money in that account going back, if you like, to the day when the honourable gentleman was the Treasurer. I suggest that those who are interested in the matter look at the reports of the Auditor-General over the years and trace the history of that rather curious account called the loan consolidation and investment reserve. He and his predecessors made good use of it as I in my time believe I can make good use of it, if needs be. 
Of course, this hoary old one about printing money is designed to stir the emotions of the masses. I was rather curious to find the other day that every Christmas time we run short of coins. I had occasion to ask a section of my Departmentthe mint- about this matter the other day. Since we changed to decimal currency, which is not very long ago, approximately 2,000 million pieces of coinage have been produced. If honourable members like to do the sum, they will find that of the total Australian population of 13,500,000 people every man, woman and child ought to have about 200 coins in his possession. I suppose they do not because some people have them in tins and boxes which they bring out at times. The question of making money is not always the devious process that the honourable gentleman has suggested. 
This legislation, I repeat, is a necessary machinery measure because of the things that the Government has chosen to do. There will not be sufficient in the Consolidated Revenue Fund to meet all the requirements for the year, but there is provision in the other 2 accounts. I think I would have been pilloried, for instance, if I had gone on to the loan market at the moment and sought several hundred million dollars. I do not think I would have got any thanks from those who say there is a liquidity shortage in the community at the moment, although I am not too sure myself that a loan might not have been quite successful. But we have chosen not to go on the loan market and this again is one of the reasons why we have to resort to this device. I thank the honourable gentleman for his little essay in economics. He could do with a lot more of them and maybe he will get them. - Nevertheless, I am pleased to know that underneath all the badinage he is willing to support the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
This is the third occasion on which I have attempted to clarify a point. I did not start this off. It was made a political argument by the honourable member for Wannon. I tried to set out the position clearly. The gifts are covered specifically by section 78 ( 1 ) (a) which lists a number of specific funds. There is no question of the disallowance of any contribution made by an individual to those funds. The section also lists a number of broad heads such as public benevolent institutions and certain widely known charitable organisations. Contributions to these institutions are also allowed as a deduction. I repeat that no individual may receive a deduction for contributions to John Curtin House, John McEwen House or even Menzies House. I am not drawing any distinctions. They are or were all estimable gentlemen in their own right. However, section 5 1 of the Income Tax Act deals with what are called losses and outgoings. It is in the hands of the Commissioner of Taxation to decide what is an outgoing in relation to a business. In the case of some outgoings in connection with John McEwen House- I am not specificing any particular firm- the Commissioner deemed that they were outgoings and were therefore deductible for income tax purposes. As far as John Curtin House is concerned, the financial year in which a deduction may be claimed has not yet terminated and the question has not arisen. 
The honourable member is now talking about something that his Party started and he is referring to something which happened 10 years ago and which everybody has forgotten. I have no doubt that a question or two was asked in this House about McEwen House. I am not resurrecting that matter. I am simply stating as a fact that some deductions were allowed in respect of McEwen House. No deductions have yet been allowed for Curtin House, and whether they are allowed in terms of section 5 1 will be for the Commissioner of Taxation to decide. In the statement that the honourable gentleman issued outside the House yesterday he accused me apparently of a breach of secrecy. There has been no breach of secrecy. I am very circumspect about that kind of thing. But equally, if the honourable gentleman wants to maintain the subterfuge that some contributions to McEwen House, which were allowed as tax deductions, were not allowed he must live with his own conscience. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prime Minister outlined the Government's attitude towards foreign investment in Australia at the AustraliaJapan Ministerial Committee Meeting in Tokyo on 29 October 1973. A copy of the Prime Minister's speech was tabled in the House on 7 November 1 973. 
On 3 November 1974 the Prime Minister also announced guidelines for foreign equity participation in and control of the mining industry in Australia. 
In his October 1973 speech the Prime Minister emphasised that overseas capital would continue to play a significant role in Australia's future economic growth, and that the Government intends to ensure that foreign capital inflows are associated with productive investment which adds to Australia 's real resources and brings us benefit. 
Since taking office in December 1972, the Government has taken a selective but pragmatic approach to foreign investment. Each foreign investment proposal is considered on its merits to ensure that it brings net benefits to Australia. The Prime Minister's statement of 29 October 1973 outlined a number of areas in which previous governments had restricted foreign investment. So far as foreign takeovers of Australian businesses are concerned, the Government has continued to apply the guidelines which were enunciated when the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act was first enacted in 1 972. 
The Government's policy on foreign investment is kept under continual review. On 12 June 1974 the Prime Minister announced the establishment of a new Interdepartmental Foreign Investment Committee to examine and provide advice on foreign investment proposals coming under notice through the exchange control mechanism. This committee has also been asked to bring forward proposals for the Government's consideration on ways to screen foreign investment proposals which do not involve exchange control approvals. The Government has also announced that it will revise and strengthen the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act 1972-73. 

That the amendments be agreed to. 
The amendments to the Bill were inserted in the Senate after a great deal of discussion and are designed, in the view of those who moved them, to improve the efficacy of the Bill. I offer no objection, or any argument against them. 
I simply wish to indicate that at the Committee stage I will move an amendment as indicated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party (  Mr Anthony). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I refer to clause 7 which reads as follows: 7. ( 1 ) At the request of the Corporation, Australia may, on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer determines, for the purpose of assisting the Corporation to perform its functions under the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970-1973, make available to the Corporation, by way of loan, such amount or amounts, not exceeding in the aggregate the amounts borrowed by Australia under this Act, as the Treasurer determines. 
Moneys required for the purposes of sub-section (1) are payable out of the Loan Fund, which is appropriated accordingly. 
Loans made by Australia to the Corporation under sub-section (1), shall, for the purposes of sub-sections 7 (4) and (S) of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970-1973, be deemed to be borrowings by the Corporation outside Australia. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has indicated that broadly he agrees with the Bill. Discussions have been had about amendments that may have been inserted in the Bill in the Senate. Had that been so, it would have caused some difficulty. After discussion with  Senator Durack,  who I think is the  Chairman  of an Opposition party committee, we have agreed to amend clause 7. Speaking candidly, I believe that the amendments to the clause are implicit in the Bill and also in the speech which I made. But since they are required to be made explicit, I have no objection to them. 
The first amendment is designed to ensure that there is no unfair advantage for the Australian Industry Development Corporation in onlending arrangements between the Government and the Corporation in relation to the proceeds of loans raised under this legislation. As far as is reasonably practicable, the financial terms of the on-lending arrangements will be no less favourable to the Government than the terms under which the loans are raised. The amendment to achieve this effect has been circulated to honourable members. I recommend it for acceptance by all honourable members. I move: 
After sub-clause ( 1 ) insert the following sub-clauses: '( 1a) In determining the terms and conditions of a loan to the Corporation under sub-section ( I ), the Treasurer shall ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that the financial terms on which the loan is made are not less favourable to 
Australia than those upon which Australia borrowed the moneys out of which the loan is made. '(IB) For the purposes of sub-section (1a), amounts received by Australia by borrowing under this Act shall be deemed to be applied in the making of loans to the Corporation in the order in which those amounts are received. '. 
The second amendment involves incorporating a new sub-clause in the Bill stating that this legislation does not alter the total amount that the Corporation can borrow under the formula laid down under section 73 of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970. I indicate that such a provision is already contained in this Act if this Bill is read in conjunction with the Act, but in order to be explicit I am prepared to accept the amendment suggested. This subclause limits the borrowing by the Corporation to five times the capital of the Corporation. Again, copies of the amendment have been circulated. I commend it for the acceptance of honourable members. I move: 
Add at the end the following sub-clause: '(4) Nothing in this Act authorizes the Corporation to borrow moneys that, by reason of sub-section 7 (3) of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970-1973, the Corporation would not otherwise be permitted to borrow. '. 
I wish to say a few words about this matter as there seems to be some misunderstanding as to what the measure is. If honourable members study the document, they will see that it refers to the financial year ended June 1974. This is a formal statement that comes every year. I think honourable members are aware of what is called the Advance to the Treasurer. One propounds a budget which shows the amount which one is reasonably certain will be required but there is always what is called the contingencies or the Treasurer's Advance. In fact, there are 2 Treasurer's Advances. There is a Treasurer's Advance in respect of the ordinary annual service and there is a Treasurer's Advance in respect of capital works. In my very young days in this Parliament I think the Treasurer's Advance on each account was as low as about £ 10m or $20m. Progressively this amount has risen. If honourable senators consult the Budget for 1974-75 they will find that in each case this amount has risen to $75m. One needs only to think of things like the wool situation where suddenly the Government has to find a sum like $25m pending the passage oflegislation 
This amount is carried in the Treasurer's Advance. It is an abstract of the amounts spent during the year 1973-74 which subsequent have been transferred out of Treasurer's Advance and into the appropriate departments. Really, this is a catalogue. It is more a matter of record than anything else. The usual thing in the past has been for the Treasurer's Advance to be adopted. But like anything else it has to come to Parliament for sanctification or ratification, whichever way one might choose to look at it. I do not think there is anything else I need add. Oddly enough, I think the document was circulated months ago. It is usually left until the end of the session. If honourable members want to talk about any particular items they are welcome to do so, but it is history rather than anything else. 
I thank the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  for his observations. I hope they are not regarded as condolences. 
I thank the honourable member. I think it ought to be acknowledged that the Treasurer's Advance cannot be used for anything one likes. Ultimately it has to be accounted for. If honourable members read the words which are used when the Budget is presented they will see that there is no difference in my time to the words which were always used. It always reminds me of the famous period of the South Sea Bubble where somebody floated a company for a purpose which was yet to be decided. I have much the same reservations about the words used in relation to the Treasurer's Advance. It is used for purposes which, subsequently, will have to be presented to Parliament. No matter what happens no dollar of expenditure can be incurred without ultimate sanction. 
The expenditure in the Budget this year is over $16 billion. The total of the 2 Treasurer's Advances is of a magnitude of $ 150m. That is less than 1 per cent. Because of the margins of change rather than the margins of error I agree with the honourable member that the Treasurer's Advance ought to be debated in that sort of dead period between the Budget Speech and when Parliament decides to advance the money. The document comes in at about that time. There would be some occasion which could be used as a preliminary joust, if honourable members like to put it that way. The way the matter is dealt with now is largely as a result of recommendations made a number of years ago by the Parliamentary Joint Committee of Public Accounts. I agree that it is a pity, in a way, that we cannot debate the matter. But unfortunately, what we are doing tonight, is giving sanction to the appropriation of every dollar which has come out of the Treasurer's Advance. Whether we have long enough to debate it is a difficult question. I am not too sure that debates about the past are quite so important as debates about the future. 
Statment agreed to. 
Motion ( by  Mr Crean  ) agreed to: 
That the following resolution be reported to the House: The Committee agrees with the statement for the year 1973-74 of heads of expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1 90 1- 1 969. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech indicated that, at that time, employment was forecast to increase by about 2 per cent in 1 974-75, compared with an increase of about 4.7 per cent in 1973-74. The increase in 1974-75 now appears likely to be lower than was forecast at Budget time but remains subject to considerable uncertainty. 
The average size of the workforce in 1973-74 was about  2Vi  per cent greater than in 1972-73. Growth in 1974-75 will depend on a number of factors- such as population growth, including migration, and participation rateswhich cannot be estimated at all precisely. It is likely, however, that the growth will be somewhat less than in 1 973-74. 
It follows that if estimates of the growth in employment and the workforce are open to margins of error, it would be wrong to say that a particular average level of unemployment is implied by such estimates. Plainly, however, average unemployment in 1974-75 will be well above 1973-74 levels. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A reduction in Treasury Note yields on 4 October 1974 was announced in a Press Release issued on 3 October 1974 by  Mr Hayden  while I was overseas at that time. I was fully informed of, and fully supported, this action. Had I been physically present in Australia at the time, I would have acted similarly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated movement between 1 972-73 and 1 973-74 in average personal disposable income (now called 'household disposable income' is shown in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has continued to apply the criteria indicated by the former Prime Minister in the course of the statement he made to the House on 26 September 1972 on overseas investment in Australia. The statement defined those criteria as follows: 'The first criterion to be applied in judging whether a proposed foreign takeover would be against the national interest will be: Whether, against the background of existing circumstances in the industry concerned, the takeover would lead, either directly or indirectly, to net economic benefits in relation to such matters as production, prices, quality and range of products and services, and efficiency and technological change which would be sufficient to justify the increased degree of foreign control of the particular industry that would result from the takeover. 
If the proposed takeover is judged to be not against the national interest on this basis, the following additional criteria will also be taken into account: Whether, after the takeover, the firm concerned could be expected to follow practices consistent with Australia's interest in matters such as exports, imports, local processing materials produced, research and development and industrial relations, including employee protection; and whether the takeover would have adverse consequences in terms of the Government's objective for defence, environmental protection or regional development. 
In making judgments as to whether particular foreign takeovers would be against the national interest on any of the foregoing grounds, due weight will be given to: The extent of Australian participation in ownership and management that would remain after the takeover; and the interests of shareholders of the company subject to the takeover and the attitudes of its board of directors. ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is expected that there will be an increase in the real after-tax incomes of most wage and salary earners in 1 974-75, but it would be engaging in spurious precision to make a specific arithmetic forecast at this stage of the year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The purpose of the retention allowances and undistributed profits tax applicable to private companies is to ensure that an appropriate quantum of the profits of such companies is distributed as dividends to shareholders in whose hands the dividends will bear tax at progressive personal rates. Without these provisions, it would be possible for private company shareholders on high marginal rates to avoid personal tax by retaining profits within the company. Since the proposed surcharge on property income applies to dividends, there will be an added incentive to private company shareholders to seek to shelter profits against liabilities to personal tax. This incentive will be further enhanced by the fact that the proposed capital gains tax will not apply until realisation to increases in share values attributable to ploughed back profits. Thus, so far from the Budget proposals which have been referred to by the honourable member weakening the case for special taxation treatment of private companies, they reinforce it. 
and (3) See answer to ( I ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Postmaster-General, who is responsible for administering the Broadcasting and Television Act, has advised me that, under the Act, receivers located in individual motel rooms occupied or available for occupation by lodgers were licensed separately. The licences were issued for the normal period of twelve months from date of purchase and, as was the case with other set-owners, were being renewed at various times throughout the year. 
No reason is seen why motel operators should be put in a preferred position to other television set owners in this respect. 1 am sure, however, that motel operators, like all other television set owners, would have welcomed the decision to abolish the fees. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following advisory and executive bodies have been established, or have been substantially strengthened or refurbished, since 2 December 1972: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As in the case of any other taxpayer, a Member of Parliament is entitled to deduct from his assessable income all outgoings (other than outgoings of a capital, private or domestic nature) which are incurred in the course of gaining or producing his assessable income. 
The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that, under longstanding administrative arrangements, a Member may furnish full details of all expenses incurred in the performance of his parliamentary functions and, if this is done, affiliation fees and levies paid to a political party are accepted as outgoings which qualify as allowable deductions. Alternatively, if a Member is unable to furnish full details of his actual expenditure, he may claim a deduction equal to the electorate allowance received. In this situation, the deduction allowed is regarded as embracing all outgoings incurred in the discharge of his official duties, including affiliation fees and levies paid to a political party 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no provision in the income tax law under which deductions may be allowed for fees paid to institutions which merely provide child care facilities. Representations have been received from various quarters requesting that the income tax concessional deductions be extended to include payments made by working mothers for child minding. I assume, however, that the Honourable Member is seeking information concerning the concessional deductions allowable under the heading of education expenses where a young child attends an institution which provides a form of education appropriate to the child's age in addition to care and supervision while the parent is at work. 
and (3) The term 'education expenses' is defined in the income tax law as meaning expenses necessarily incurred in connection with full time education at a school. Even though most child care institutions are not 'schools' as that term is ordinarily understood, the Commissioner of Taxation has been able to accept that part of the fees paid qualify as education expenses where certain conditions are satisfied. 
The basic question is whether the institution can be accepted as a school in the sense that it provides an educational program which is geared to the capacity of children under primary school age. Factors to be taken into account include the type of educational program and facilities provided, the qualifications of teachers engaged in educational activities, the amount of time set aside for educational instruction and whether the institution itself complies with all relevant State laws. 
If the relevant tests are satisfied, and provided the child has reached the age of three years, a deduction is allowed in respect of that part of the fees which could reasonably be regarded as attributable to the child's full time education. No deduction is allowed where the child is under three years as this age is the minimum age at which a child is considered capable of absorbing formal instruction. As the extent to which full time education is provided by an institution which also engages in the care and supervision of young children can be determined only in the light of the facts of each particular case, the Commissioner is unable to lay down arbitrary rules for general application. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969, which expired on 30 June 1974, and currently under the Roads Grants Act 1974, Australian Government financial assistance has been made available for rural roads. During the period between the expiry of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969 and the enactment of the Roads Grants Act 1974, interim financial arrangements were made so that States would have access to funds for road works. Funds have been provided regularly on a monthly basis to the Queensland Government without delay. 
Against this background any cessation of work on roads on Stradbroke Island in the Electoral Division of Bowman would need to be attributed to other causes. 
The level of Australian Government financial assistance to a State for roads is based on an assessment of the State's total requirements including for local roads. However, the distribution between local authorities of finance for rural roads this current financial year is a matter for the State Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No statistics are available of the number of taxpayers who claimed the maximum deduction allowable for education expenses in respect of any of their children. The only related statistics are those of the number of children in respect of whom the maximum education deductions were allowed. The statistics for the 1967-68 income year, the latest for which this information has been compiled shows that the number of children in respect of whom the maximum deduction (then $300) was allowed was 124,046. This number is estimated to represent about S per cent of the total number of children in respect of whom deductions for education expenses were allowed in that year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government has not made any decision to the effect that it intends to change the gift provisions of the income tax law so as to withdraw the deductibility of gifts to bona fide charitable institutions. 
As no decision to amend the provisions has been made, there is nothing to advise. I mention, however, that gifts to the RSPCA as such have never been allowable as income tax deductions. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Advice regarding this matter has now been given to my colleague the Minster for the Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are three Taxation Boards of Review. 
Membership of the Boards and dates of appointment are: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
1 ) The normal procedure is for press releases issued by the Treasurer to be delivered by hand to the Press Gallery in Parliament House and for copies distributed otherwise to be sent by mail. 
Copies of the Treasurer's press statements are also distributed in accordance with a mailing list which is subject to constant review. The list includes those major media outlets throughout Australia which embrace both nationwide and local newspapers, Tass Correspondent, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and British Broadcasting Commission (Sydney rep.). In addition copies are distributed in response to inquiries by people and organisations, Members and Senators, government departments embassies, political party organisations, business firms and organisations, libraries and individuals. 
The number of copies circulated depends to an extent upon the particular subject matter of the statement, but in general copies are sent to about 1,300 addressees. 
The cost of producing and distributing press releases by the Treasurer is included in the salaries and other administrative costs of the Treasury and is not separately identifiable. It would, however, constitute only a minute proportion of those costs. 
Five officers on an as and when required basis are involved in the distribution of press releases. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Based on statistics for the 1972-73 income year of income tax assessments issued in 1973-74, it is estimated that the cost to income tax revenue that would have resulted from allowing a deduction of $1,200 in respect of life insurance premiums and superannuation payments to all taxpayers, regardless of the amount of their expenditure, if any, on these items, is estimated at about $ 1 , 1 80m. 
The across-the-board increase in personal income tax rates for the 1972-73 financial year that would have been required to offset the cost of extending the $1,200 deduction to all taxpayers is estimated at about 42 per cent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
) See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The rate of interest as at 30 June 1972 and changes since that date in respect of each class of loan referred to in the question are set out below: 
Rural Reconstruction Loans 
The rates of interest charged to individual borrowers by the State authorities administering the Rural Reconstruction Scheme are a matter for the Authorities concerned, subject to an interest rate of not less than 6.25 per cent p.a. for farm build-up and an average interest rate of not less than 4 per cent p.a. in the case of debt reconstruction. These limits have not been varied since 30 June 1972. The rate of interest applicable to Australian Government assistance to the States under the Scheme has not varied since that date. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Preliminary estimates of overseas borrowings by companies in Australia for the June quarter of 1 974, as published by the Statistician on 29 August, are compared with figures for earlier quarters in the following table. 
I will take only a moment in this debate. With all respect to my friend the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  this Government is not the first Government that has issued publications about its performance. Surely it is quite appropriate that a Government should give the facts about its achievements. I would think that the honourable member probably is a little bit disturbed with the sort of free advertisements that the Australian Country Party has had for years from a so-called free Press in the country that suppresses - 
-The former Liberal Minister for Social Services was the greatest distributor of reports on the achievements of the Government that I have ever known. Even in my electorate a couple of years ago an official Government publication was issued carrying the name of the Liberal candidate standing against me in the electorate of Melbourne Ports and I had to take some action against the honourable gentleman to ensure that the so-called Government record was not so debased. At least the publications mentioned tonight are an honest record of what the Government has done. They are an attempt to correct the distortions that occur in the country Press which is the greatest free advertisement the Country Party has. All I suggest is that, with all respect to my friend the honourable member for Wimmera, I think he is drawing a long bow when he refers as he did to Government publications. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Pending the conclusion of negotiations for the restraint of exports from the Republic of Korea to Australia of certain knitted outerwear apparel items, the Australian Government announced on 18 September 1974 that imports from the Republic of Korea of such items would be subject to import licensing controls in order to avoid any further large and rapid increase in imports of the items concerned. Subsequently, the Governments of Australia and of the Republic of Korea concluded, in Canberra on 29 November 1974, an arrangement whereby exports to Australia from the Republic of Korea of specified items of knitted apparel will be limited in calendar year 1975 to 2 811 000 garments. Agreement was also reached on transitional arrangements to cover the period during which Australian import controls on relevant items will be phased out and Korean export restraints applied. These provide that Australian import controls will continue to apply to goods shipped from Korea up to 31 December 1974. Imports of such goods will be permitted when they are shipped within the terms of irrevocable letters of credit established on or before 19 July 1974. The arrangements entered into with the Republic of Korea will ensure that imports in 1975 of the items concerned from Korea are restrained at a level lower than the level of trade which developed over the last year. 
Restraints agreed to with India and the People's Republic of China provide for comparable degrees of restraint of exports to Australia in the twelve month period ending 30 June 1975 of specified apparel items. 
Not applicable. 
Imports for 1972-73 and 1973-74 of the items subject to bilateral restraint arrangements are as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581, which appeared in the House of Representatives Hansard on 4 December 1974, page 4590. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australian Trade with South Africa: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Early August 1974. 
and (3) Yes. There were subsequent discussions with the Managing Director of Leyland and after consideration by Ministers the company was advised that its Waterloo site and also a number of vehicles would be purchased by the Government as part of overall arrangements to enable restructuring of the company's activities in Australia and minimise disruption and hardship to employees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Special Minister of State to Question No. 1862. see Hansard of5 December 1974, page 4841. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Representations made by the Joint Secretariat on Action for World Development , an organisation sponsored by the Australian Council of Churches and the Roman Catholic Church in Australia, were received in the office of the Minister for Overseas Trade on 2 August 1 974. In a statement in the House of Representatives on 1 August, in answer to a reply by  Mr Clayton, Dr Cairns  said that the question of representation in South Africa would be examined by relevant Departments. 
The results of the examination were incorporated in a press statement on South Africa by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 20 September. The statement pointed out that the Government had decided to discontinue all Governmental promotion of trade and investment in South Africa. Consequently, there will be no more officially sponsored trade missions, trade displays, exhibitions or fairs there. 
The Government has also decided that Australia will support any decision of the United Nations to impose economic sanctions against South Africa, provided that they are also observed by South Africa's other major trading partners. To date no other developed country has imposed such sanctions and the Government would not see any useful purpose in curtailing trade unilaterally. 
The Government also has decided that Australian Trade Commissioners will be retained in South Africa, but their activities will be limited to providing only basic marketing information and assistance to Australian companies. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) A fund of $250,000 has been established to assist Australian companies to meet the cost of pre-investment feasibility studies in developing countries. 
Following the revaluations of the Australian dollar in December 1972 and September 1973 assistance was provided for exporters of manufactured goods seriously affected by those decisions. 
(a) Overseas Investment Feasibility Fund. 
Revaluation Assistance for Secondary Industry. 
(a) To encourage Australian companies to undertake investment feasibility studies in developing countries. 
To provide adjustment assistance to exporters who have developed overseas markets, but suffered serious hardship as a result of the revaluation of the Australian dollar on 23 December 1972 and 9 September 1973. Its aim is to provide aid to those smaller and medium sized exporters who cannot afford to incur the costs necessary to maintain competitiveness. 
(a) Conditions of Eligibility 
The proposed investment must be in Australia's national interest and in accordance with the social and economic development plans and investment policies of the host countries. 
Only financially sound firms having significant Australian ownership are eligible for the grant. 
The proposal must be submitted to Department of Overseas Trade before the overseas portion of study is commenced. 
Where the company decides not to proceed with an investment following completion of the study, taxable cash grants may be paid in the form of a reimbursement of 60 per cent of eligible expenditure (up to $25,000) incurred overseas in the study. 
No more than 2 grants will be payable to any one company per year and a limitation of one grant per country in any 12 month period also applies. 
Criteria for eligibility are: export prices must have been reduced as a result of the revaluation competition which led to price reduction should not have come from an associated or subsidiary company exports should make up 10 per cent or more of sales in 1971-72 assistance to be calculated on the basis of total export income from all markets with assistance diminishing as exports increase in the period following the revaluation; assistance is cut-off when the post-revaluation export income exceeds 1 15 per cent of that achieved in the same period in the preceding year firms failing to take out forward exchange cover where it was available do not qualify hardship to be demonstrated by: 
effects of revaluation upon production and employment levels 
difficulties in maintaining export market 
effects upon profitability of operations the amount of assistance is limited to 90 per cent of price reductions actually made between 23. 12.72 and 30.6.73 50 per cent of price reductions between 1.7.73 and 31.12.73 $100,000 maximum for the above 12 month period following the December 1972 revaluation 50 per cent of price reductions actually made between 10 September, 1973 and 30 June 1974 with an upper limit of $50,000 over this period following the September 1973 revaluation no assistance for sales after 31 December 1973 in respect of the December 1972 revaluation and no assistance for sales after 30 June 1974 in respect of the September 1973 revaluation. 
(a) 10 May 1974 
The scheme began 1 July 1973 for claims in respect of exports following the 23 December 1972 revaluation. 
(a) Cabinet Decision, 
Cabinet Decision. 
(a) Press statements by the Prime Minister on 22 January 1974 and the Minister for Overseas Trade on 10 May 1974. Businessmen are also acquainted with details of the Fund's operation when discussing possible investments overseas with officers of the Department in Canberra or State Offices. 
b ) The coram unity was informed of the scheme by press releases on 10 April 1973 and 27 September 1973. Notification and invitation for applications at the close of each claim period were also advertised in all the major national daily newspapers. 
(a) To date 22 proposals have been received for a study to be considered eligible under the Scheme but no firm has yet applied for a grant. 
28 applications were made by companies and individuals. 
(a) Initially the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon the recommendation of an Inter-departmental Committee, decides on the eligibility of proposals submitted. When claims for a grant are submitted they will be met by the Department of Overseas Trade provided the corresponding proposals have been previously approved as eligible by the Minister. 
Grants are approved by the Minister for Overseas Trade upon the recommendation of an Inter-departmental Committee. 
(a) Not applicable (see (8) above). 
7 per cent of applicants under the short duration of the scheme have been successful. 
(a) Not applicable (see (8) above). 
No distinction was made between groups and individuals in the scheme, i.e., an individual could apply as well as a company or group of companies. 
(a) This question is not directly applicable as the scheme is available only to Australian firms looking at overseas investment prospects. 
See (7) above. 
(a) Departmental examination. 
Departmental examination. 
(a) Yes. 
Yes. 
(a) Receipts of eligible expenditure and a statutory declaration are required. 
The criteria laid down require demonstration of substantial hardship in order to qualify for the grant. The grant entitlement is related to continuing export sales during the period under consideration. 
(a) Nil. 
No payments were made in 1973-74. To date $35,470 has been made in 1974-75. 
(a) Nil. 
$35,470. 
(a) The purpose and qualifying criteria ofthe Fund do not overlap with other Government grant programs. 
This scheme specifically relates to the revaluation of the Australian dollar. Its purpose and qualifying criteria do not overlap with other Government grant programs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) On 11 October 1973 the then Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Cairns,  issued a public statement concerning the negotiation of a Long-Term Wheat Agreement between the Australian Wheat Board and the China National Cereals Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation. In addition to announcing that the Agreement is for a period of three years commencing 1 January 1974 and provides for the sale of up to 4.7 million tonnes,  Dr Cairns  drew particular attention to the fact that the LongTerm Agreement had been negotiated specifically in accordance with the Trade Agreement between Australia and China which had been signed in July 1973. 
As foreshadowed by the Minister, the Australian Wheat Board issued a statement containing further details. The Board, in line with established commercial practice, has made public certain details of a non-confidential nature concerning individual sales contracts it has subsequently entered into with the China National Cereals Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation. Copies of the statements by  Dr Cairns  and by the Australian Wheat Board have been provided to the honourable member. 
No. The base quantities specified in the Agreement were negotiated with due regard to the need for maintaining supplies to other traditional wheat markets. 
The Long Term Agreement does not include any provisions for fixed prices, as such. It incorporates a provision providing for the negotiation of prices on a mutually acceptable basis, having regard to world wheat prices. 
The Agreement specifies the base quantities which are to be sold by the Australian Wheat Board and bought by the China National Cereals Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation during each year of the Agreement- 1 . 1 million tonnes in 1974 and 1.3 to 1.8 million tonnes each year in 1975 and 1976- a total of up to 4.7 million tonnes during these three years. Sales amounting to 2.6 million tonnes have been made to China since the Agreement was signed. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 1544 appeared in Hansard on 25 February 1975. 
Devaluation: Effect on Neighbouring Countries (Question No. 1229) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information the honourable member has requested is shown in the following tables. In the interest of providing the statistics quickly, I have shown details for principal countries only. These however, have a coverage of approximately 90 per cent of exports to all destinations. Should the honourable member require information for the remaining countries this will be supplied upon request. As statistics are not yet available for December 1974, or January 1975, the following tables cover the months of January 1973 through November 1974 only. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member for Boothby directed a similar question on notice (No. 1503) to my colleague, the Minister for Housing and Construction. I refer the honourable member to the answer to that question which appeared in Hansard on 5 December 1974 (page 4830). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The long term wheat agreement between the Australian Wheat Board and the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation was signed on 18 October, 1973. The Agreement provided for the sale of up to 4.7 million tonnes of Australian wheat to China over a period of three years from 1 January, 1974. 
No; the Agreement provides for the negotiation of prices on a mutually acceptable basis, having regard to world wheat prices, for individual commercial contracts. 
and (4) The Agreement specifies only the base quantities which are to be sold by the Australian Wheat Board to the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation during the three years of the Agreement; these are 1.1 million tonnes in 1974 and from 1.5 to 1.8 million tonnes in each of 1 975 and 1 976, giving a total of up to 4.7 million tonnes over the three years. 
No; the Agreement provides for actual quantities to be negotiated each year according to availability of supplies from Australia and the requirements of China within the stipulated base quantities, with provision for quantities to be increased above the base levels, by mutual agreement as to quantity and price. 
The arrangements are embodied in a formal agreement between the Australian Wheat Board and the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation the full details of which are confidential as between these parties; but see answers ( 1 ) to (5) above. 
and (8) The Australian Wheat Board, as seller, does have a contractual obligation to supply wheat to the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation, which for its part, has an obligation to buy Australian wheat. These mutual obligations relate to the base quantities referred to in (3) and (4) above and were negotiated by the parties to the contract with due regard to the need for Australia to maintain supplies to other traditional wheat markets. As indicated in (5) above, the quantities for each year are negotiated between buyer and seller. 
I enter into this debate to say one or two things about the proposition that the Opposition seems to be advancing at this stage that somehow the progress of governments is to be decided upon the basis that what are called deficits are somehow wicked in themselves and surpluses are virtuous. The Opposition seems to have acquired that new virtue rather suddenly. I say that because if one looks at the history of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government one will see that there were very few years in which it was in office in which government expenditure did not exceed revenue. I ask those honourable members who may have any doubts about that to look at the table on pages 124 and 125 as well as 2 earlier pages of the Budget Papers of the last Budget, which, by the way, I was responsible for presenting, concerning the Australian Government's Budget in a national accounts form. They will find that, invariably, over the last 10 years, governments have spent more than they have collected in revenue-in other words, there has been a deficit. It seems that this year the argument is about the amount of the deficit. One must be realistic about the progress of economies. What ever might be said about certain deficiencies at the moment, no one is denying that inflation does exist. No one is denying that there is a degree of unemployment. Nevertheless, in the Australian economy today, on the basis of the figures for the last complete quarters as against the previous 12 months, the physical output is greater than it was. 
The problem with the economy now is, as it has always been, in sharing the scarce resources of skilled manpower and materials and technical skills among a variety of alternative uses. There are still more things which need to be done in the Australian economy, both at the public and the private level, than we have the resources to encompass. The difference between this Government and the previous government is that they have a different basis of priorities. In the long run, Government, in the name of the people, is concerned with the allocation of resources between alternative uses. The great bleat at the moment is that the level of the deficit is chosen to suit the convenience of those who want to use it. It is dishonest to suggest that at the end of, March, which is the date of the last Treasury' monthly statement published, the difference between expenditures and receipts was of the order of over $3 billion. 
Everybody knows these 2 things: Expenditure on the part of government goes on fairly evenly month by month, but revenue does not come in equally month by month. The great phrase which is being used so glibly at the moment is: 'Resort to the printing press'. As I told one of my colleagues yesterday, there will be a great unprinting of money, if that is the term that ought to be used, in the next two to three months as large company taxation payments of about $ 1 billion are made. That will reduce the astronomical deficit figure, which seems at the moment to have so much appeal and to paralyse thinking on the situation, from about $3 billion to about $2 billion. If a deficit of $3 billion at this point is supposed to be some great devastation, is the reduction of that deficit by $1 billion in the next 3 months a sign of achievement? Is that the level of analysis which is taking place in this House about the Australian economy? 
I wish to look at one or two aspects of the Australian economy which ought to disturb us all. It is nice when one is in opposition to be able to put all the blame on the government. From the remarks during a debate yesterday I almost thought that the Australian Government had deliberately knocked down the Tasman Bridge. There were remarks of a similar vein in the debate about Darwin this morning. These are things which happen. They are beyond our control, but we endeavour to remedy the situations when they occur. Part of the very large deficit which is being talked about has been occasioned by the extension to the wool industry by the Government of more than $300m. This enabled wool growers to have incomes. They would not have had incomes if they had to wait for the wool to be sold. I am sure that no member of the Australian Country Party objects to what was done with regard to the financing of the wool industry. But doing this has added to the deficit which honourable members opposite have elevated to a kind of symbol of incompetency of this Government. 
The great difficulty in the Australian economy at the moment is in deciding the shares of the total productive capacity that will go between wages and profits on the one side and private and public expenditure on the other. The two are interrelated. It is no easier to decide in an abstract sort of way what is a fair day's pay for what is described as a fair day's work than it is to decide what is a reasonable rate of return on capital employed in a business. The great danger in either case when they are put in abstract terms is that it makes an agglomerate of what really is a very diverse situation. There are variations in industry in Australia, from small scale individual enterprises to partnerships, private companies and public companies. Increasingly, the sorts of investment decisions which have to be made involve greater magnitudes than ever before. The source of the capital financing in a large part is the use of depreciation reserves, which are tax deductible, and undistributed profits. To a lesser extent the re-financing or the expansion of industry is financed from new capital subscribed by shareholders. 
Whereas in other days the magnitudes of the new capital expansion were perhaps of a few million dollars, they now tend to be of the order of hundreds of millions of dollars, and even billions of dollars. The decisions which are made have to be made long in advance of the completion of a project. Something which today would cost a certain amount could, within 2, 3, 4 or 5 years cost a vastly different amount. These are the sorts of things which in a vague kind of way are being talked about now when it is suggested that we should have different approaches to accounting because of inflation. As usual, those in business are sometimes a bit more vocal than are other sections about what their deficiencies are. Economists ought to tell honourable members opposite that inflation does not affect only company profits, the return on capital or capital expansion, it affects everyone in the community. Various devices are sought to protect particular sections against inflation. Once one tries to protect everybody simultaneously against inflation one gets into some curious situations. Wage indexation is one attempt on the part of wage earners to maintain their standards without having to bargain annually for their income to be changed. 
Indexation of savings is sometimes talked about. It is said that people really do not get a net return on their money if they put it in the bank at an interest rate of 10 per cent per annum and the annual rate of inflation is 1 1 per cent; that they really have a negative return. Of course, what sometimes is not asked is what would happen if the money had been left under the bed with the possibility of its being stolen. It certainly would have produced no return. Sometimes a compromise has to be made, and the best situation that is available has to be accepted. But there is not any doubt that if one were to assume that, say 3 years ago, wage levels were at a certain percentage of the Gross Domestic Product and returns on company profits were at a certain percentage of Gross Domestic Product- and one might argue as to whether at that point of time 3 or 4 years ago there was an equitable distribution between the two- and were to compare that with the situation that exists now, the increase in wage levels has been far greater than that of profits. This seems to me to be the type of point that we ought to be centering on in this debate. 
I said in the days when I was Treasurer, prior to shifting to the portfolio of Overseas Trade, that Australia had reached a point where- and I do not deny that as far as the present economy is concerned approximately three-quarters of total employment is still in what is rather vaguely described as the private enterprise part of the economy and one-quarter in the public sector- if there is any lack of confidence in the private sector, it becomes very difficult to absorb into useful employment all those who want to be absorbed. In Australia more jobs have to be found every year than existed at the beginning of the year because there are something like 200 000 new potential wage earners each year, minus those who retire from the work force. At the end of December 1974 some 6000 fewer people, in total, were employed in Australia than were employed at the end of December 1973. It should not be forgotten, nevertheless, that at December 1973 total employment figures were greater than they had been ever before but in the following 12 months not all those who wanted to come on to the work force were absorbed. 
The work force is a changing situation. We have the irony, one could say, at the moment of more people unemployed than any honourable member on either side of the House would like, but simultaneously with that various areas of industry are indicating that they cannot get employees in particular areas. What this points to is some sort of structural difficulties within the economy. I am afraid that in Australia, as in so many other countries, because we have been so concerned about problems like unemployment and inflation and have tended to look at the issues separately, we have not comprehended the kinds of changes that probably will have to be made in Australia and in other parts of the world in the next 10 years. 
In my new portfolio of Minister for Overseas Trade perhaps, to some extent, I get a different perspective from what I would get when looking at things merely locally. Australia does happen to be one of the largest trading nations in the world. When one conceives of international trade as the sum of exports and imports in relation to total GDP, Australia's figure exceeds 25 per cent of GDP. We now export something like $8 billion worth of goods and services every year and our imports cost a somewhat lesser sum. We have to pay for invisibles, which makes our balance not quite so easy and to some extent we rely on capital inflow. But, by and large, no country exports at all unless it wants to import. After all, it would be silly to send out of Australia more than we brought into it. We would be subsidising some other part of the world if we did so. But at least we have to try to preserve some sort of balance. International trade is a two-way process. Honourable members from Queensland, for instance, cannot expect to sell from their State beef and coal- it is not a question of beef or coal; it is beef and coal- to Japan if we do not buy from them something else to pay for the beef and the coal. 
One of the great difficulties in Australia is that those who happen to be the exporting interests are entirely different from those who are the importing interests. One of my tasks is to try to reconcile the two. I find, for instance, that when, for good and sufficient reasons, my colleague the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  takes certain steps to protect an Australian industry- be it footwear or textiles or something else- and puts limitations upon the access of those items to Australia, I receive very learned documents called aide-memoires or General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade observations telling me that Australia is in breach of some contractual arrangement by doing so. I simply mention that point to indicate that there does have to be a bit of give and take and sensible reconciliation in the process of our trade, external as well as internal. 
I have always been an optimist about the future of the Australian economy and I think that that optimism will be borne out only if there is sensible co-operation between government, private industry and employees and sensible decisions are made as to what should be the disposition between total resources going to public and private sectors. I think this is what our task continuingly is going to be. However, so often I find that somebody plucks a figure out of the air. After all, what is $2 billion in relation to a GDP that will be running at a figure of near enough to $60 billion by 30 June, when we will have to appraise it. The significance of an amount of money can only be evaluated in terms of whether it has assisted to bring into active use resources that otherwise would have been idle; whether it has somehow altered the disposition of resources between the public and private sectors; and, if it has, whether it has altered them for the better. I think that in terms of those assessments the conduct of this Government is not as recreant as some people try to make us believe. There are problems ahead. The problem of inflation is the most difficult and the other problem that is difficult is getting a return of confidence on the part of those who are supposed to make investment decisions in the private sector of the economy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
Australia was represented at the 8th Session of the UNCTAD Committee on Commodities held in Geneva from 10 to 21 February 1975. 
The Australian Delegation at this meeting was led by the Australian Minister Commercial, Geneva, and comprised officers of the Departments of Overseas Trade and Foreign Affairs, based in Canberra, Geneva and Paris. The Committee did not discuss specific raw materials or commodities as such but concentrated on proposals for an integrated international programme for commodities generally. The main resolution adopted by the Committee concerned the development of proposals on basic elements of an integrated programme, particularly on stocking and complementary price stabilisation arrangements, multi-lateral supply /purchase commitments and possible additional commodity arrangements. 
Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory: Report  (Question No. 2397) 
I must say that I am astonished by the nature of the attack that has been waged in this House today by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who spoke for the Liberal Party, and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  against the creation of a new insurance office which will operate, if one may say so, as a 'pigmy' among the 50 or so life insurance offices and 200-odd general insurance companies that already exist in Australia. Oddly enough, there are already half a dozen State Government insurance offices operating in the field. 
I want to look at some of the statistics that surround this very interesting field of insurance. I want to talk mainly about general insurance rather than about life insurance. In Australia at the moment premiums for life insurance policies aggregate about $2,000m annually. It costs more than $500m annually to mobilise that $2,000m of premiums. As far as general insurance is concerned, the aggregate of premiums is $ 1,500m. It costs nearly $400m to collect that $ 1,500m of premiums. I submit, to begin with, that the insurance industry is not a very efficient industry; it is a tremendously expensive industry. Of course, the paying of those expenses limits the benefit that can become available to the policyholder. Also, one must be surprised at the rather monolithic attack that has been launched collectively by the insurance companies. 
I want to say a little about the field of general insurance in particular. I draw to the attention of honourable members- I am sure not too many of them have seen this- a document which was issued on 29 April, a few days ago. It deals with the foreign ownership and control of general insurance business in Australia. I shall refer to the highlights which are stated on page 7. 
It is a publication of the Statistician issued on 29 April 1975. It deals with the situation at the end of June 1973 relative to foreign ownership and control of general insurance business in Australia. It showed that the aggregate level of foreign ownership of general insurance business in Australia was 45.7 per cent So at least half of this great industry that members of the Opposition are displaying so much sympathy for is not Australian at all; it is foreign. Of the 45.7 per cent foreign ownership, direct foreign ownership comprised 41.4 per cent. This was almost entirely direct foreign ownership of the foreign part. Foreign control was highest by the United Kingdom at 31.6 per cent. Two-thirds of the foreign ownership is United Kingdom ownership. One has to think only of the names of firms which include words like 'Great Britain' and 'Norwich' and so on to see the identification. Of the 55 per cent Australianowned general insurance 20 parts of that fifty-five are on account of government insurance. In other words 40 per cent of the Australian area is already government controlled. What is wrong with another government department? 
I shall give honourable members some rather interesting figures in a moment as to the expenditure rates as between the government and other Australian insurance companies and foreign companies in terms of the premiums collected. I think the figures give some food for thought for the Opposition. Instead of being the rabblerousers behind the rabble members of the Opposition should consider these facts. I have never known a more astonishing thing than what has happened in the last few days. I repeat that the Government is not nationalising insurance. In the area of general insurance it is 20 per cent nationalised already if you like to look at it in that way. I think it is to the benefit of Australia that that is the case; otherwise the foreign participation would have been even greater. 
Let us have a look at the particular areas that are foreign dominated, as my colleague the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  mentioned. In marine insurance, 77.7 per cent of the total business done in Australia is done by foreigners. For fire insurance the figure is 65 per cent. Why should two-thirds of the fire insurance business that is transacted in Australia be conducted by foreign companies? There might have been a reason in the early days when Australia was a series of colonies instead of as it now is, a nation, when perhaps we did not have sufficient accumulation for this sort of business to be done locally, but why in 1975 does any foreigner need to tithe and toll in Australia to insure a house? This is one of the most lucrative forms of insurance. How many honourable members from built-up areas have known of fires in Brighton, in North Sydney, in Middle Park, in the last several years? It would be an interesting exercise to add up the annual premiums paid by people. I suggest that they are excessive in terms of the risk that is supposed to be covered. 
Personal accident insurance is 59.2 per cent foreign controlled. Again, why does this business need to be undertaken by organisations not owned in Australia? Householders' comprehensive insurance is a relatively new area. At least it is modern in the sense that it has developed in the past 20 or 30 years. More than half of that insurance is foreign controlled- 5 1 per cent. Workers compensation insurance is 45.9 per cent foreign controlled. At least this Government is the first to acknowledge that the purpose of workers compensation is to compensate workers, not to fatten lawyers or to occupy the courts in deciding the degree of negligence on the part of parties to accidents which are inevitable in an industrial society. No person injures himself wittingly. It is a social event and it ought to be acknowledged as such. The same thing applies to those wretched motor cars that overcrowd our inadequate roads. The accidents are due largely to the number of vehicles in relation to the road space rather than to any negligence or deliberate intent on the part of the driver of the car. Yet more than one-third of that insurance business is undertaken by companies based outside Australia. 
I draw particular attention to figures which I think are worthy of study by honourable members. They show that in 1972-73 foreign companies paid out claims of $360m to policy holders. The expenses associated with paying that $360m were $22 lm. The government area of insurance paid out claims of $252m and expenses were only $35m- one part in seven as against 2 parts in three for overseas companies. I suggest that there is a certain amount of overcompetition in this area of business. The amount paid out by Australian-owned insurance companies, as distinct from the government insurance companies, was $29 lm and expenses were $ 1 39m. In other words, the expenses for the Australian business were only about half of what they were for the overseas business. I submit that it is time that we looked a little more closely at this. Why is there the variation in expense ratio, with 14 per cent for government insurance and nearly 3 times that figure for non-government? I submit that it is an area where competition has run mad. It is inefficiency. It is not competition. 
I suppose everybody is entitled to protect his means of livelihood, but it takes 30 000 people to collect these premiums. I think there ought to be a much more efficient and effective way of doing this sort of tiling. This is one of the virtues we see in government competition in this part of the area. I think that is what some of these firms are a little frightened about- that their golden days have gone. After all, most of the sorts of things that people insure themselves against are incidents arising out of the sort of society in which we live. We have had plenty of examples recently of what virtually are uninsurable areas. For instance, nobody will insure against a drought in the metropolis nor against a flood in a drought area. But these events can happen and when they do happen they are often not within the realm of what are called insurable risks. The expense has to be met somewhere else. I think there was a lot of chiselling in respect of some of the claims arising from the Queensland floods, but in many cases houses simply were not covered against that kind of risk. Had cover been available probably the premiums would have been so inordinately high that people would not have been insured. Occasionally we have to meet a national disaster or a natural disaster- sometimes the terms are interchanged. They are things that nobody can predict. Who would think that the wind that 990 times out of 1 000 would miss Darwin would descend upon it with such devastation in a matter of hours. That is not a risk one could insure against. It is an event that when it occurs has to be met as this was, mainly by the Government collectively on behalf of the people involved. 
I think the same is true of workers compensation and motor car accidents. They are not the sorts of areas that are better covered by what the 
Opposition likes to call private enterprise. They are most inefficiently done that way. They are most inefficiently done when, instead of being the subject of simple procedure, they become the subject of legal argument. I think that my Leader before he became Prime Minister pointed out on a number of occasions how much of these claims did not go to meet the circumstances of the victim but were absorbed in costs out of all proportion to the benefits that were supposed to be bestowed. The Government's view is that compensation is better provided on a public basis than on a private basis. 
Fears have been expressed about what will happen when what I have called this new pygmy descends among the giants. I think that people ought to be a little more rational in their approach to this matter. One more insurance company is beginning its way in an area that in my view is already over-supplied with private companies. At least I pay tribute to those government organisations that they have been successful enough, despite the lack of encouragement in some cases, to acquire two-fifths of the business that remains in Australian hands in the general field. It is to their credit. Long may they flourish and may their relative share increase. One should look occasionally at the mechanisms we have for insuring the various social risks that occur in the community. We have policies covering fire; householders; comprehensive; marine- that is perhaps a bit different from the rest but nevertheless I agree with my colleague that Australia is now big enough to take a greater proportion of this insurance- motor vehicle, workers compensation and personal accident. As I say, because of the nature of the society in which we live most of those areas of insurance are necessary. I suppose that robbery and theft arise out of not solving some social problems, but because they exist we endeavour to insure against them. How one determines what is the right premium in relation to the risk involved is somewhat dubious. 
Anyone who looks at the costs in relation to the benefits in the area of general insurance cannot be satisfied that the industry is conducted efficiently. I repeat that the latest figures, for 1972-73, show that there were total claims of $903m but total expenses of nearly $400m to meet that, and $100m went in commission and agents' charges and over $200m went in management expenses. I suggest that when the expenses amount to something close to half of the claims there is something wrong. Something needs remedying, and maybe the solution is a bit more competition if not a bit more intervention. 
In the field of life assurance- which to my mind has no great problem at the moment- I doubt with all respect that a government office will make great inroads very quickly into life assurance. In my view it can make quite a definite pattern in the other areas fairly quickly. As I mentioned, it would have a much lower expense ratio. Where would life assurance in Australia be today unless it were buttressed by the taxation concession? Looked at purely as an investment it is a most inefficient form of investment. If it were not for the return a person receives, discounted by the tax he does not have to pay in making the premium, I doubt whether people would take out life assurance. One of the things that life assurance interests do not acknowledge is that life in the next 25 years will be harder than it has been in the previous 75 years. An enlightened community ought to acknowledge that those who have wrought for it in the years of their strength are entitled to a remuneration or an income when they retire. It ought not to be just a chance contribution to an insurance company where the benefit is the greater to a person the higher his income is. That is not the way in which modern societies approach these things. 
Australia is one of the last Western countries to have a national superannuation scheme. I think it is to our shame that we are the last. I for one resent rear guard sort of action. I noticed the other day that the  Chairman  of the Australian Mutual Provident Society complained because so few people participated in the recent board election. He was dismayed at the apathy of the millions of people who could have voted but who did not. All it does is draw attention to the rather monolithic institution that the industry is now. It is socially buttressed by the tax system and at least it ought to acknowledge some social obligation and not be in the forefront of the rear guard in opposing progressive reforms in this country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since several importing countries, including the E.E.C., Japan, Greece, Canada and the U.S.A., imposed restrictions on imports of beef in 1974 and early 1975, a series of representations have been made either to secure reopening of markets or an equitable Australian share in the volumes permitted to be imported. 
It has not been possible to produce a complete and definitive listing of all the occasions on which Australian representatives have raised the matter of barriers to the export of Australian beef. However, a list of the main formal exchanges is provided below. 
Pursuant to section 98 of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act 1974, 1 present the final report of the operations of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation for the period 1 July 1974 to 31 January 1975, together with financial statements for that period and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek approval of the Parliament for the establishment of an Australian Overseas Trading Corporation to engage in overseas trade subject to prescribed conditions. The economic growth and well-being of the Australian economy are directly linked to its ability to sustain continued development of its overseas trade- two-way trade, both imports and exports. This financial year, 1974-75, the total value of Australia's trade- imports and exports- should exceed $ 16,000m. The international trade scene, however, undergoes a continual process of evolution, a process which was accelerated late in 1973 by the four-fold increase in oil prices. This has radically altered the economic and trading situation of the northern hemisphere industrialised countries and the oil producing nations. Industrialised countries are now experiencing reduced or even negative rates of growth, and the world is witnessing an unprecedented shift of monetary reserves to the oilproducing nations. Meanwhile the centrally planned economies, comprising one-third of the world 's population, and the world 's largest economic area outside of the European Economic 
Community and the United States, have been largely unaffected by such events. 
The growing complexities of international trade in such an evolutionary environment have either demanded or resulted in more and more government involvement. All major world trading nations now have a large degree of government involvement- both direct and indirect- in their overseas trade. The time is most opportune to re-appraise what now appear to be gaps in Australia's overseas trading machinery. Clearly, we must be better equipped to expand our trade with areas where we have never traded before. Our 3 largest markets- Japan, the United States of America and the European Economic Communityremain of the utmost significance. Together they account for about 65 per cent of our trade, but they no longer represent the predictable, expanding and buoyant markets for our exports that they did in the 1960s and early 1970s. Without in any way detracting from the predominant importance to Australia's overseas trade of these 3 key markets, there is both a scope and a need for the development of other markets and for the further diversification of our trade. 
The significant areas for such development and diversification are the centrally planned economies and the Middle East oil exporting countries. In the conduct of trade with these areas demands for government-to-government involvement in commercial transactions are becoming much more prevalent. Against this background the lack of an effective central and co-ordinating instrument of trading activity seems to represent a clear gap in Australia's overseas trading machinery. It would also seem that this gap extends to a majority of Australian manufacturing establishments which are too small to benefit from the economies of scale derived from engaging in overseas trade. What seems necessary is a clearing-house type organisation which could act as a principal to aggregate small lots for export and bulk purchase import requirements on behalf of the small manufacturers. These seemingly obvious gaps in our existing trading machinery could be filled by the proposed new Trading Corporation. This Corporation could assist two-way trading development in 3 important areas, firstly, trade with the centrally planned economies; secondly, trade arrangements with the Middle East oil-exporting countries; and thirdly, assisting small Australian manufacturers and processors into overseas trade. 
Trade with the Centrally Planned Economies 
The centrally planned economies conduct a very substantial volume of world trade estimated to be worth around $ 100,000m annually. Australia's trade with them in 1973-74 was less than $530m. That is about 4 per cent of our total trade. Furthermore, almost 80 per cent or fourfifths of our exports to this area in 1973-74 was confined to wool and wheat. The different economic systems of the centrally planned economies and their lack of understanding of free enterprise market structures make it difficult for trade growth to occur and difficult for trade to be developed or promoted in the same way as with the Western countries. These countries also have evolved special methods of trading such as barter and switch trading which, though unsuited to Western trading methods, have sometimes to be employed if trading opportunities with the centrally planned economies are to be developed seriously. Australian traders generally are inexperienced in dealing with the centrally planned economies and have difficulty with their trading methods and thus, understandably, have been reluctant to seek to tackle and exploit the opportunities offered in trading with them. The proposed Trading Corporation could help overcome this problem by providing a selling-purchasing agency with direct contact between the Australian trading community and the state trading corporations of the centrally planned economies. 
Trade with Middle East Oil Exporting Countries 
One clear consequence of the energy crisis has been the growing trend of the now enormously affluent Middle East oil exporting countries to seek comprehensive, long-term, government to government arrangements on agricultural development, foodstuffs, capital equipment and technology. At the moment there is no central government agency equipped or empowered to undertake this role. A government trading corporation by acting as a central prime contractor, sub-contracting to private enterprise, could act as a catalyst and provide a co-ordinating instrument for the consumation of diverse multimillion dollar trade arrangements and projects which seem to be well beyond the capacity of individual Australian private firms. 
Assisting Small Australian Manufacturers and Processors into Overseas Trade 
It is intended that the Corporation would encourage and assist the smaller and lesser experienced Australian manufacturers and processors into overseas trading. Some 93 per cent of Australian manufacturing establishments have fewer than 100 employees but they produce 34 per cent, or slightly more than one third, of the value added by the manufacturing sector. However, their contribution to Australian export earnings, though potentially large, is very limited proportionally. This is mainly attributable to such factors as an insufficient volume of production to export as single units and an inability to afford expenditure on export expertise and overseas market research. 
An Australian Overseas Trading Corporation could tender for small lots, with quality and standards specifications, and aggregate them into viable export orders backed with the necessary marketing research and skills. It could also act as an import agent to assist small firms with their requirements of imported materials and components. Small firms cannot order small lots direct from overseas and therefore are subject to higher cost inputs and suffer shortages to a greater degree than larger firms when essential items are in short supply. An Australian Overseas Trading Corporation could aggregate small import lots into viable orders to purchase in bulk, and after a commercial commission, pass on the savings to the small firm concerned. 
Consultations with State Governments and Business Organisations 
Prior to the detailed formulation of the Bill consultations were held with most State Ministers responsible for development and all relevant State government departments. Their reaction was one of general support of the need for and objectives of a trading corporation. Some, however, stressed the need for effective safeguards to ensure the private trading sector was in fact no way disadvantaged. 
The proposal was also discussed with the Trade Development Council, major trading houses, the Australian Manufacturers Export Council, the Australian Chambers of Commerce and the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association. In these consultations it was emphasised that the Trading Corporation would seek fully to co-operate with and complement the activities of the private sector. It would seek to generate new business- business that might otherwise be lost to Australia. It would not impinge in any way on the functions of the statutory marketing boards. Its facilities would be available to them only if the board in question required them. It would be excluded from retailing and would have to market its goods through existing distributive channels. The Corporation would be operated on commercial lines and be subject to the same taxes and benefits as private trading houses. 
Safeguards 
The safeguards written into the Bill for the private sector are quite explicit. The Corporation would not be empowered to export goods to a market where commercial trading houses had an established and continuing trade in those goods to that market. It is not intended that the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation would enjoy, as a government agency, any exclusive or preferred position in trading nor would it seek to cut across or interfere with existing trade patterns or associations developed by Australian trading houses. It would concentrate on the generation of new business. Traders concerned in these matters have the right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. These safeguards are a guarantee that no one in Australia will be deprived of any business in which he is engaged at present or need fear that his activities will be curtailed by the advent of the Overseas Trading Corporation. 
The Corporation is to be conducted as a commercial undertaking, aiming at making a reasonable return on its capital, which will be $ lm advanced by the Government. It will not be subject to the direction of the Minister in its ordinary business dealings, in its day to day activities. If it considers a transaction to be in the national interest by reason of its size or potential, but not commercially attractive, it may request the government to permit it to undertake the deal. If the government agrees, it will reimburse the Corporation for any losses that may be sustained. 
The BUI provides for a corporate body with 10 directors, two of whom will be full time. The 2 full time directors, the Managing Director and the  Deputy  Managing Director, will run the day to day business of the Corporation. They will be paid salaries commensurate with the importance of the position, as determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. As public money is being provided for the capital of the Corporation, the Government will be represented on the Board, but otherwise the members Will be drawn from outside the government sector. 
The Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Will use the administrative faculties of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation- now COlloquially known as EFIC, replacing the Export Payments Insurance Corporation which was known as EPIC- which would include office space, accounting and communications. Otherwise the businesses will be entirely separate. This will enable a quick and inexpensive start to be made to the Trading Corporation's operations. 
The Corporation will appoint its own staff to meet its requirements. It is expected that only a small number of marketing specialists will be required initially, but this number could be increased, if the expansion of business justified this. Persons with special qualifications may also be appointed to undertake specified projects, for example for helping to open up a market about which they had specialist knowledge. Salaries will be laid down by the Public Service Board in consultation with the Corporation, to ensure that specialists of the required qualifications will be obtained. 
The Corporation will be able to borrow money from banks or other lenders, with the approval of the Treasurer, who may also make advances to it from moneys appropriated by Parliament. The Treasurer may guarantee any amounts borrowed. The Corporation may not enter into a contract involving the payment or receipt of an amount exceeding $500,000 without the approval of the Minister. In addition, it is not permitted at any time to have outstanding trading commitments in excess of $50m. The Corporation is required to keep accounts in accordance with commercial practice and to have them audited by the Auditor-General. It will also present an annual report to Parliament containing an audited financial statement and an account of operations. 
In these times of rapid change and evolution in overseas trade it is imperative that Australia have the machinery necessary to adapt to changed circumstances and continue to expand and diversify our export outlets. I believe that the proposed Trading Corporation, with the support of Australian producers, manufacturers and traders, can be an effective catalyst and coordinator in enabling Australia to do this. 
Before I conclude my remarks I would make the same appeal as was made in regard to the Health Insurance Bill (No. 2). This Bill will be before the Parliament for at least 2 months before it is considered. This will give those who have displayed enthusiasm for the Bill, and those who have displayed anything but enthusiasm, an opportunity to consider it. I hope it will be acknowledged that there is a very large part of the world with which we do not trade. Whatever opportunities there may have been in the past to do this, they certainly have not been very successfully availed of. It is our belief that this Corporation will assist trade in areas where we have not traded before, perhaps because we have not been imaginative enough to believe that we could sell our goods. I hope that interested parties will peruse the legislation carefully in the next 2 months and make any representations to me they wish to make. Having said that, I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Exports of urea are not recorded separately in official statistics. 
Royal Commission on Human Relations  (Question No. 1342) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer which the Prime Minister provided to a similar question, No. 2586, which appeared in Hansard of 5 June 1975 (page 3545). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer which the Prime Minister provided to a similar question, No. 2789, which appeared in weekly edition No. 1 1 of Hansard for the period 2 June to 5 June 1975 (pages 3546/3547). 
I am pleased to know that the Opposition is supporting this measure, which should at least ensure it a speedy passage through both Houses of this Parliament. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has chided honourable members on this side of the House for being so tardy in getting to the stage of legislating. Had be been a bit more cooperative with respect to some of the other measures that we have tried to get through this House and, in particular, another place maybe we would have got around to doing this sooner than we have. I repeat what I said on an earlier occasion, that is, that the previous LiberalCountry Party Government rather belatedly in its dying hours as a government introduced the legislation that we are now repealing. The previous Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  introduced it after a certain amount of public pressure had been exerted upon him to do something in this area. I think that Government acted as it usually did. When almost everything that was worth taking over had been taken over, it decided to introduce legislation enabling it to prevent, limit or scrutinise future takeovers. 
It closed the stable door after the horse had bolted, as my friend the honourable member for Hunter has said. I take this opportunity to say a few things. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, who is the shadow Treasurer, cited the fact that both I and one of my colleagues had been critical of this legislation when it was introduced because of its inadequacy. Well, I guess we were entitled to make that sort of criticism. We were certainly entitled to say that it ought to have been brought in a great deal sooner than it was. I have said previously too in the House that despite the skeletal nature of the Act, in many respects it has been a very effective piece of legislation and many matters that are not covered by the Act have been able to be dealt with by administrative arrangement. There has been a certain degree of cooperation with interests outside who want to promote changes in ownership of activity in Australia. At least they have co-operated in the spirit of the administrative arrangement as though in fact it was the law. Nevertheless, there are always difficulties when things are done administratively rather than legally. What we are doing here now is to codify and strengthen in certain respects the system that has prevailed. 
The Act dealt only with the acquisition of shares in companies. It did nothing whatever in circumstances where a company could be taken over or dismembered, not by activities in regard to shares but simply by the buying of the assets with which a business was concerned. The other weakness was that the Act could do nothing in circumstances where one foreigner proposed to take over another foreigner so far as ownership in Austrafia was concerned. It seems to me that the Act in its rudimentary form does get down to the fundamental question about the ownership of economic activity in Australia by interests outside Australia. This is something that is described in the rather broad context of foreign investment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, who is the shadow Treasurer, chides us again because we have not laid down any guidelines for foreign investment. Sometimes one can lay down guidelines that do everything but guide. In some respects one is often better to be without guidelines and to treat each case on its merits. Basically this is the approach that has been taken by this Government with respect to foreign investment, that we look at each case on its merits. 
In a simple sense nobody from overseas invests in this country unless he thinks there is something in it for him. Equally we in this country ought not to be interested in anybody wanting to invest in us unless there is something in it for us. There has to be a bargaining arrangement to start with. There has to be some possible advantage on each side. How we reconcile the advantage to them as against the advantage to us seems to be of the essence in this question of foreign investment. One can lay down guidelines that say there shall be no overseas investment in Austrafia in future unless the degree of Aus.tralian equity is at least 5 1 per cent. If we want to we can aim at an even higher or lower precentage. I suggest that it is better to be flexible in this sort of context than to be rigid. 
These days a venture which is being planned three to four years ahead can involve expenditure not just of a few million dollars, perhaps not even just of several hundred million dollars, but even getting into the one or two billion class. It seems to me to be a little bit foolish, to say the least, to be categorical, irrespective of the nature of the activity, as to what the participating shares and equity should be. One can have rigid guidelines but all that they will do will be to guide the activity out of the country altogether. One would not achieve much by the rigidity of guidelines. On the other hand, this legislation at least makes it necessary for certain proposed activity to have to be notified. The legislation provides for a process of examination after the activity has been notified. The legislation also provides that after the examination in the national interest certain things may be prohibited and certain things may also be allowed. Candidly, I cannot see anything wrong with that kind of scrutiny being codified, and that is what is intended in the legislation. 
Much has been said about the necessity for Australia to have foreign investment. Again I would ask those people who take these matters seriously to look at the document that comes down with the Budget which deals with the availability of capital in Australia. A table in the White Paper on national income shows the sources of investable funds or potential capital. Equally it shows how those funds are disbursed. Of course, investment in Australia is divided between what is called private investment, which tends to run pretty close to two-thirds of the total, and public investment, which makes up the remaining one-third. Over a long period of years the level of capital investment in Australia has run at about 25 per cent of gross domestic product. The White Paper shows that the GDP was $58.5 billion-that is as at 30 June 1975 and investment was something of the order of $14 billion of which the major part again was private and other other part public. Fortunately for Australia had it not been for an upsurge in public investment relative to private investment for the period ended June 1975 economic activity in Australia would have been much less than in fact it was. There was sluggardness in private investment and at this stage I do not want to go into the reasons for that. I think that sometimes that area which likes to call itself private enterprise is anything but enterprising. This area claims when it suits it that it is risk taking, but the last thing that it wants to do is to take a risk. Although there was an upsurge in public investment the rise was not as high as any of us would have liked it to have been. 
Nevertheless, the salient point is that something like 90 per cent of private and public investment is internally generated. The overseas or foreign component of investment has been a minority, not a majority. During the period of the previous government there was no selectivity as to where that foreign investment would go. Certainly very huie of it went into the public sphere. Most of it went into the private sphere. When one took such areas as home building and so on out of the private sphere one could see that investment was being concentrated very heavily into manufacturing industry, and mining in particular. We have reached a stage where statistics which tend not only to be old but also, in some respects, inadequate suggest that in certain mining areas the concentration is very heavy in the direction of foreign investment. For those honourable members who are interested in the statistics, the White Paper shows that in the financial year ended June 1975 of all the dividends generated in Australia over one-third went to foreign interests. I think this tends to show- in a snapshot if you like- the concentration of foreign investment already achieved in Australia. Where we go from here seems to me to be the question that we should ponder perhaps a little more than we have in the past. 
I have indicated that investment, particularly in its corporate form, is likely to occur in larger sums, that it will take several years to achieve and the reality is that each example may be looked at case by case rather than being bound down by formulae that one likes to say are guidelines. Our practice has been to look at the situation case by case. The situation is different in certain areas of investment. This Government has prohibited foreign entry into certain areas. Real estate is one example. Even under previous governments there were exemptions with regard to banking and broadcasting and television organisations, and the airways. We added to that list. Any country, in its own national interest, has to take certain things into account. The term national interest' is mentioned in this legislation, but as my colleague on the other side of the House, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  knows, 'national interest' is a very difficult term to define. It can be defined negatively rather than positively. It can be defined as taking into account the sorts of things which are listed in the speech which the then Acting Treasurer, the present Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  made in this House in May. 
Certain factors are taken into account, such as employment, whether such schemes will add to technology in Australia, and whether they will be fairly or unfairly competitive with existing structures. These are all factors that can be identified as somehow serving the national interest. To use a categorical definition that the national interest means such-and-such and nothing else is foolish. There may be some criticism of the failure to define the national interest in a better way than is done at present, but my colleague is learned in these matters and he knows the trickiness of lawyers who, when they want to be subtle, are certainly subtle and are serpents at the same time. But be that as it may. 
We have been chided for not bringing in this legislation before. I have tried to defend our position. It was not easy to get through this House legislation affecting certain areas, and because what we tried to get through took some time there was less time at our disposal to deal with the rest. At least we renewed the Act that the previous Government passed. I pay honourable members opposite that compliment. Flimsy though the Act was, with sensible administrative arrangements and the creating of a second committee we have managed to get by. Hopefully what we now propose to write into law about the disposition of assets and so on will be passed. The spokesman for the Opposition has indicated that the Opposition offers no objection to the legislation; therefore it should have a speedy passage. 
Honourable members might be interested to know that Australia's sister Commonwealth country, Canada, sent people to Australia a few years ago to look at the working of our legislation. Canada embodied some of our administrative arrangements, as it saw or interpreted them, to form part of the law that it has passed in this area. I suppose both sides of the House can take credit for what has happened, flimsy though the arrangements may have been and even though they were criticised by us when they were introduced and have since been criticised by honourable members opposite for not being further extended by us. Nevertheless the legislation has worked fairly effectively and I think to the advantage of industry that very vague area we call the national interest. I commend the Bill to the House and hope that, as the shadow Treasurer indicated, there will be no opposition to it here and therefore presumably no opposition to it elsewhere. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
The answer tothe honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in Pan (3) of the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 2243 (Hansard, 13 May 1975, page 2198). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to the comments in Part (3) of the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 2243 (Hansard, 13 May 1975, page 2 198). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Australian imports of Urea containing in the dry state more than 45 per cent by weight of nitrogen: 10 Months to April 1975 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are four relevant schemes administered through the Department of Overseas Trade, namely: 
a ) Export Market Development Grants. 
Revaluation Adjustment Assistance to Secondary Industry. 
Pre-investment Feasibility Study Fund. 
Flour Export Promotion Trust Fund. 
The schemes were announced in Parliament, advised in the Australian Government Gazette and in major newspapers, were the subject of ministerial Press releases and the subject of articles in Departmental publications distributed throughout Australia. In addition a series of seminars was held during April and May 197S in all State capitals and some regional centres to publicise and explain the Export Market Development Grants Scheme to exporters. The latter scheme is also set out in more detail in an explanatory booklet issued in May 1975 entitled 'Export Market Development Grants- A Guide to Available Benefits'. 
The honourable member is referred to part (3) of the answer provided by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, in answer to question number 2691. 
Geriatrics and the Frail Aged  (Question No. 2275) 
I oppose the amendment, of course. I think, with all respect, that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  is using this occasion of the consideration of this purely technical measure the Loan Bill 1975, to enter into a larger debate. Similar Bills have been introduced in this House before both by this Government and by the previous Government. In fact I have been furnished with a statement out of the Budget papers for 1971-72. 1 point out that this was the second last Budget presented by the previous Government. Among the documents- similar documents are appended to this year's Budget Speech- Budget statement No. 3 attached to the 1971-72 Budget Speech made this observation: 
It is not possible to predict accurately what changes will occur in holdings of Commonwealth securities by the public on the one hand and the banking system on the other. These, as discussed earlier, will reflect monetary and other developments during the course of the year. 
Deficits are nothing new, as the shadow Treasurer pointed out. More often than not deficits have been incurred on total budget accounts for the 12-month period. No Treasurer has ever given any indication in advance how he proposed to finance that deficit. At least the Opposition and the Government seem to have this much in common on this occasion, that last night the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  agreed more or less with the level of the deficit of $2,800m in round figures. If he were going to work to the same sort of deficit he would have to employ the same sorts of mechanisms as are being employed here at the moment. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked why the Government does not give more details about monetary policy and about how this deficit will be financed. I would draw his attention again to the documents to which I referred earlier, this time to statement No. 2 on the Budget and the economy. I submit that most of the matters that we are canvassing here are more properly the subject of the Budget debate itself. But the honourable gentleman has chosen to have a debate on this Bill when a debate need not really have occurred at all, the measure simply being passed as a machinery measure. There has been considerable economic analysis in statement No. 2. 1 submit with all respect that the statement does not seem to have been read by the honourable gentleman. It states: 
The outlook presented here is also based on a number of more specific assumptions, any or all of which may turn out differently. 
Much the same words were used in the same documents when the previous Government was in office. The statement continues: 
The more important assumptions are: 
The general stance of monetary policy will remain such that the liquidity of the banking system is sufficient to meet the basic immediate needs of the economy for finance without being fully accommodating to inflationary demands. 
At least what is called these days monetary stance is spelled out clearly in that document. The honourable gentleman does not seem to have read it. I should like to draw attention to two or three other statements which it seems to me indicate the difficulty. In statement No. 2 is a table showing the formation of the volume of money. It starts by using the Budget deficit as the first item for the table 'Formation of the Volume of Money'. It goes on to list the components that, in the course of the year, are responsible for the variations in the volume of money. I say again that none of them is predictable at this stage. The only figure we have at the moment is the projected deficit. One, of course, does not need to point out that there was a difference between the projected deficit this time last year and the deficit as at 30 June this year. The same sort of thing occurred under previous governments. The change in the deficit took place because of the change in circumstances. 
Yesterday an honourable member misquoted something which I had said the day before. When I was asked about expenditure on the Regional Employment Development scheme I referred to the fact that when the last Budget was drawn up no provision was made in it for the RED scheme because the circumstances which made such a scheme necessary had not at that stage emerged. The Government appears to be being criticised now for nominating a particular sum. People are saying: 'What will happen if that sum is not great enough?'. I simply make the point that we believe that on the assumptions on which the Budget is based the present sum is adequate. Some of the things that we posit may not turn out as we expect. Of course, one of our purposes in the Budget was to reduce the rate at which public expenditure increased this year as against the previous year. The purpose was to reduce the rate- not the absolute amount. No government would have been able to spend less this year than last year. But the rate of growth has declined from more than 40 per cent to about 23 per cent. We arranged that in order to allow more initiative for the private sector. If the private sector does not take up the initiative that is available to it, it may well be that more public initiative will be required. 
-The deficit could be less. The deficit could be more. I do not want words put into my mouth about that. I do not think anybody will assert that the deficit will be exactly $2,798.3m, which is the exact figure the Govern.mernt has used in order to balance the Budget figures. I prefer to say that the deficit will be about $2, 800m. It seems to me to be a nice round figure. I do not believe that a Budget will have been a miracle if, instead of the deficit being $2,800m, it turns out to be $2,700m. Nor do I think it disastrous if the deficit instead of being $2,800m turns out to be $2,900m. I do not think one should be so silly as to believe that we could have that exactness. Words which used to be used to describe that sort of situation are 'fine tuning'. They are nice words for economists and financial journalists who do not know nearly as much as they claim they know. They are nice words for them to use but they are far from reality. 
So far as the volume of money is concerned, it is subject to all sorts of items that can fluctuate and change during the year. Some clever character was trying to draw some conclusions about the deficit in the month of July being many hundreds of millions of dollars different from the same month last year. 
No. It was someone from the Opposition drawing attention to what we call the 'Niemeyer figure'. Anyone who draws conclusions on a one month basis does not need his head read; he needs to do a rather extensive course in economic reading. To posit on the basis of 1 month's figures what is likely to happen for 12 months is quite absurd. Everybody knows that in the early part of a financial year expenditure is uniform month by month but revenue is not. We get excess of revenue in certain periods for example, in May and June, because the big taxpayers pay their tax in that period. We have tried to get around that to some extent by having company tax paid quarterly and assessed on the previous year. It seems to me to be a sensible approach from a liquidity point of view. 
Of course, in abnormal times, excuses are being found to shift that. Of course, it is nice to be the group of taxpayers who think they can shift their proper liability to a different time without penalty. The majority of the pay as you earn people might feel the same. They might feel that for economic reasons they do not want their tax deductions to be taken out, say, this month. But, of course, the system does not work that way. 
I think we should have a more mature kind of debate in this House instead of- with all respect- the kind of flimsy pretence that is being undertaken by this amendment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition knows as well as anybody- or he should know- that we cannot say: 'The deficit is so much and we will finance it this way or that'. We had the highest loan on record announced yesterday. Nobody gives the Government any praise for that. That loan will certainly give us some funds to help to bridge this deficit. It probably will not be the last loan to be raised between now and the Budget wash up in June next year. 
Another feature of the deficit to which I would like to refer is the difference between what we call the 'deficit' and the 'domestic deficit'. Last year, of course, overseas activity, a favourable inflow of capital and an increase in reserves made a difference of $600m. Again, no one can forecast with any great precision now whether that figure will be plus or minus at the end of June 1975. My tip, if it is worth anything, is that it will be plus again and that there will continue to be- despite what the gloomy Jeremiahs opposite say- people outside Australia willing to risk their money in Australia. I wish, at times, that a few of our internal businessmen had a little more confidence than they seem to have at present. I wish they were prepared to do a little risk bearing themselves. The criteria of private enterprise, in theory, is that as well as being enterprising it is risk taking. It seems now that unless everything is guaranteed by the Government those people are not prepared to venture further. 
I have said this in my capacity as Minister for Overseas Trade: I believe there will be people in 1976 who will be sorry that they did not take investment decisions in 1975. The economic climate will improve. One of the results of that will be a greater demand for consumer goods. That demand may outrun the capacity of industry in Australia to supply. Businessmen ought to be looking hopefully ahead rather than gloomily over their shoulders. 
Another table to which I draw attention because it shows the difficulty of predicting what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is asking for, appears in the Budget Papers on page 144. The table is headed: 'Summary of Australian Government Budget Sector Financing Transactions, 1965-66 to 1974-75.' That table gives the figures for 2 years under our Government and 8 years under the previous government. Again, it indicates the variety of items that go to make the composition of the deficit. This once again defies precision at this time of the year. I hope that the threat which the honourable gentleman made is not proceeded with in another place. I think that the sorts of things that we are talking about in this place today ought properly to be the basis of the Budget debate. This particular item is handled in this way to link with defence. Again, as the honourable gentle.man well knows, this is done to cope with the technical Loan Council procedures. There is nothing snide or underhand about it. I remember making a speech on a Bill similar to this one when I was in Opposition. In that Bill, I think for the first time, the sum that was projected was not mentioned. I suppose I made my play about the inaccuracy of estimating and so on. One can score points in that way but realistically both sides of the House would say that if in government at present they would be aiming for about the same level of deficit- about $2,800m. Whichever side was in power would have to introduce this kind of measure. No side would be in a better position to give the composition of the $2,800m now as against what it turns out to be eventually when we finally wash the accounts up at the end of June 1976. 
I think there is a certain amount of sheer political play here. It is the sort of licence one expects in a Budget debate but to turn what is nothing more than a routine mechanical measure into an opportunity to suggest that the Government is destroying the currency or not indicating its monetary policy is inappropriate. I suggest again that honourable members opposite read the documents. I suggest they also read the annual report of the Reserve Bank. Of course, like most other annual reports, it tells what has happened rather than what is likely to happen. Nevertheless to some extent what happens is greatly conditioned by what has happened. I am sure members opposite will agree with that statement. 
The Treasurer has given plenty of indications as to what he is aiming at with respect to volume of money. He has provided a table which shows its composition over recent years. He has indicatedI repeat the phrase- that monetary policy will be operating so as not to assist inflationary trends. In my view that is all anybody can sensibly say at this point. There will be seasonal ups and downs, as we know. I am hopeful that unemployment will begin to decline. If it does not do so we will have to take different sorts of measures to look after those who unfortunately are unemployed. I leave it at that. I hope that the Opposition might consider withdrawing its amendment. 
Having already spoken in the debate I seek leave to make a short statement to answer, a couple of questions that have been asked of me. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  grieves me by bis suspicion. He says that he is worried about the situation now. The situation is that the practice being followed now is no different from that which was followed by his own government. It is not an open ended commitment at all. It does not allow all the defence expenditure to come from the Loan Fund; it allows such an amount as is determined by the deficiency between the Consolidated Revenue Fund receipts and the projected outgoings from that Fund during the year. At this stage it looks as though there will be a deficiency in the region of $1,1 32m. That is the figure that was mentioned by the Opposition spokesman here this morning. 
-I do not have the figure readily available. It was either $ 1, 1 5 1 .9m or $ 1 , 1 52.2m, depending on which table we consult. The practice which we are following has been adopted in other years. True, it has not been done to the same level, but previously it was not needed to be done to the same level. I take the point that the deficit on this occasion is higher than it has been in other years. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  suggested last night that he thought that it was about the right kind of deficit. So, had Opposition members been sitting on this side of the chamber instead of on that side of the chamber, they would have had to bring forward a measure somewhat similar to this. 
The other point is that the money spent on defence, whether it comes out of Consolidated Revenue or the Loan Fund, cannot be of an amount greater than the total provided in the Budget. I think the honourable member ought at least to be fair about that. The figure mentioned in the Budget is something like $ 1,750m. Again I do not have at my finger tips the precise figure. We cannot spend more than that amount on defence. Whether it comes out of the Loan Fund or whether it comes out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund- I want to say something about section 81 of the Constitution for the honourable member- it has got to come out of one or other of those funds. On this occasion a larger amount than usual will come out of the Loan Fund because of the large size of the deficit. I am afraid that that is as much explanation as I think I can give. I hope that the honourable member is not suspicious that we are trying - 
I know the honourable member is, but he has no reason to be. I am just trying to be frank in the answer I am giving. The honourable member referred specifically to section 8 1 of the Constitution. He was good enough to indicate to me before lunch that he intended to raise this matter, and I in turn sought some information on it. Again this is not anything new. It was a practice followed by governments of the political persuasion of the honourable member. I point out that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  said in his second reading speech the other evening: 
The Australian Government's financial transactions are recorded in 3 separate funds- the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loan Fund, and the Trust Fund. 
They are recognisable divisions of the internal bookkeeping, but I am told that in terms of section 81 of the Constitution the legal people regard the term 'Consolidated Revenue Fund' as embracing all 3 aspects and not just the Consolidated Revenue Fund itself. That is the best explanation I can give to the honourable member. It is the explanation which has been given to me. I am not a lawyer. Perhaps the honourable member is better versed in the law. The point is that even though we call the funds by 3 different names- the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loan Fund and the Trust Fund- for the purposes of section 81 of the Constitution they are all embraced by the term 'Consolidated Revenue Fund'. If the honourable member is not satisfied with that explanation I think that the matter would have to be taken up on a legal basis. 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who is sitting at the table opposite me asked why certain words that were contained in a previous similar Bill were left out of this Bill. I am told that upon looking at the matter a second time the advisers wonder why the words were necessary on the first occasion. I do not think that there is anything devious or subtle there. Apparently, it is just that those words that were contained in similar Bills in other years are regarded as superfluous. They do not add to or subtract from the Bill. That is the explanation given to me and I hope that it is satisfactory. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that on 27 May my colleague, the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  announced that the Australian Government had approved the continuation of the minimum reserve price arrangements for wool during the 1975-76 season. The Australian Wool Corporation has been authorised to continue operating a minimum floor price equivalent to 250c per kilo clean for 21 micron wool at auction. The Government has made it clear that this authority will apply throughout the 1 975-76 wool selling season. 
During the 1974-75 season a total of $289m was advanced to the Corporation by the Government to finance the purchase of wool under the reserve price scheme, and to provide for advances to growers. This total was made up of $ 1 3m which had been available in the Australian Wool Corporation Working Capital Trust Fund, and $276m which was advanced from the special appropriation of $350m under the Wool Marketing (Loan) Acts. 
During that season, the Corporation bought extremely heavily, especially earlier in the season. During the first 3 months of the selling season the Corporation's purchases averaged 43 per cent of offerings at auction. As the season progressed the market strengthened considerably, and in the last 3 months of the season the Corporation's purchases averaged only 10 per cent of offerings. Towards the end of the season there was a net reduction of some thousands of bales of wool in the Corporation's stockpile. At 30 June the Corporation's net purchases had averaged 33 per cent of the season's offerings at auction and its stockpile of wool had reached some 1.6m bales. 
The purpose of the present bill is to amend the Wool Marketing (Loan) Acts to increase the amount of the appropriation under that act to $356 million. After account is taken of the $276m advanced to the Corporation last year, the remaining appropriation available for advances to the Corporation in 1975-76 will be $80m. Honourable members will recall that this is the amount which is included in the Budget for advances to the Corporation. The Government also will guarantee new borrowings by the Corporation of $70m from trading banks. Those borrowings will be additional to borrowings under the existing facility of $34m, made available by a consortium of trading banks under Government guarantee. 
In addition to this provision of $150m, the Corporation will be able to finance wool purchases and advances to growers, from the cash proceeds of the 5 per cent levy on growers' returns from sales of wool, estimated to amount to $46.25m in 1975-76. This is in accordance with the arrangements agreed with the Australian Wool Industry Conference and provided for in the Wool Industry Act as honourable members will be aware, advances to the Corporation under the Wool Marketing (Loan) Acts are made to the Corporation by the Treasurer, on terms and conditions determined by him, after the customary consultation with the Minister for Agriculture. 
I take the opportunity to refer to reports which appeared in the media, following the presentation in this House of the statements attached to the Budget Speech, to the effect that Government assistance to rural industries would be reduced by some $200m this year. That amount is, of course, roughly the extent of the reduction in advances from the Government to the Wool Corporation, from $289m last year to the provision of $80m this year. Honourable members will appreciate that this is a complete misconception. There is no reduction whatever in the effective support for the Wool Corporation. In both years the Government has pledged its support for the floor price at 250c. We judge the provision of $150m-$80m from the Budget, $70m by way of Government guarantee borrowing from the trading banks- to be adequate for this purpose. However, as the Treasurer made abundantly clear in the Budget Speech, we will as a matter of course keep the position under close review throughout the year. I therefore commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Eric  Robinson) adjourned. 
I am sure everybody in Australia ought to be concerned about the levels of unemployment. 
I am. 
I do not know why, for the good of your reputation, you do not retire. I do not think anybody can estimate what the levels of unemployment will be in the next two or three months. I am optimistic about the prospects in the next two or three months and as explained when I have been asked before, if unemployment does increase naturally enough measures will be taken to look after those who are unfortunate enough to be unemployed. I made a plea yesterday that I hope will be taken up. I wish that that section which calls itself private enterprise would show a little more confidence in the future. I think that I said in the presence of the honourable members yesterday that that section will be sorry in 1976 for decisions that it did not take in 1975. 
In normal circumstances I find the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who has just spoken, to be a very kindly man; but today he seemed to speak with simulated indignation and he used extravagant words, one of which he had to withdraw. If he had reflected a little, I think he might have said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  failed to understand. For reasons that I propose to give, I think there is every reason for the Prime Minister's failure to understand the exactness of the propositions because they were not exact or explicit and in some instances were costed rather carelessly. I want to refer to several of them. I think that in one or two instances assumptions could be drawn validly from the statements made by the Prime Minister. At least the lengthy Press statement that was issued the next day clarified what had not been too clear the night before. 
The first thing that I would like to say is that I think it is a little cheap to try to score off the absence of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden).  At least the Treasurer had the courtesy to stay to hear the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Like every other Treasurer for the last 10 years or so, the present Treasurer has now left to attend the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Therefore, I think it is a little gratuitous to say the least, to say that the Treasurer has fled the country almost in fear. Again, I think that is a travesty of the situation. 
I am not sure whether I understand what the Leader of the Opposition was saying the other evening but it seemed to me that he agreed about the perspective of the deficit. We argued about this yesterday. He thought that it had to be approximately $2,800m. I want to refer to his estimate. He proposed to reduce expenditure by about $ 1,000m and, presumably at the same time, to keep the same parameter to reduce taxation or to give concessions of about the same magnitude. I hope that that is a fair interpretation of what he intended. This game of making catalogues about one's opponents' estimates is a very old one from which I was a sufferer when I sat on the other side of the House. When any proposal was put up, what were called carefully costed estimates came out the next day. In my view, many of them were quite dishonest and distorted. Candidly, I do not think it is a game worth pursuing. I think the job is to attack the Budget, not to put up a shadow budget which has no effect anyway. The Opposition's job is to attack what is there. The Opposition does not have the expertise to write shadow budgets properly. It will make mistakes. 
I asked the right honourable gentleman this morning why he did not keep quiet. He is becoming a querulous chatterer. As I said before, he does the shreds of his reputation no good in consequence. The Opposition- least of all the right honourable gentleman- does not have the expertise. The right honourable member no longer has the dignity of a shadow minister. 
I have obtained some information to which I hope the House will listen tolerantly. It is as exact as I believe things can be when we do not necessarily agree with each other's words. I think there is a fair bit of polemics in the amendment that I am about to move. I regard this as a legitimate enough place in which to do it. The statement which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition made the other evening makes it clear- it was not clear in the speech- that the $500m additional relief this year in personal income tax is to be given by means of a first step towards indexation and that the latter would not be in addition to the $500m. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition was not entirely clear on the point. 
In relation to the Mathews company tax proposal the Leader of the Opposition says that he would 'implement the recommendations of the Mathews Committee on company taxation'. Mathews' preference was to apply both adjustments to 1974-75 incomes, which would affect tax payable in 1975-76. 1 might stress that some of these matters are highly technical and people could be excused for making wrong estimates about them. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition's statement makes it clear that the Opposition's proposal is to commence with half of the stock adjustment on that basis, but not to start the depreciation adjustment immediately. That was not explicit in his leader's speech the other evening. On that basis the cost this year would be half of the cost of the full stock adjustment. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition puts it at $500m. That would be at the lower end of the range implied in the Mathews report. The figure could be $50m higher if the other end of the range were chosen, but this does not seem worth arguing about. The proposal would leave the company tax rate at 45 per cent and save the $120m which the 2'A per cent reduction would cost. 
I turn now to the investment allowance. I find it a little odd that what the Opposition is holding out as a great concession will cost nothing. A 40 per cent investment allowance would have a full year cost of about $300m. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition says that it would apply to plant installed from July 1975- the Leader of the Opposition did not specify the commencing dateand in that event there would be no cost in 1975-76. The date was not mentioned. Again I failed to understand because it was not clear. It is still not clear whether the investment allowance would be in addition to the double depreciation proposed in the Budget- maybe someone will clarify that. The latter has no revenue cost in 1975-76. Leaving aside current year revenue considerations, it is noted that full implementation of the Mathews recommendations plus a 40 per cent investment allowance would cost $ 1,600m to $ 1,800m in a full year, and double depreciation another $75m. By comparison, the total we collect for company tax is only $2.25 billion. 
On private companies the nature of the proposal is not explained and there is therefore no way of checking the $10m cost estimated for it. It seems likely that it would operate by easing or removing the need to pay out as dividends a 'sufficient distribution', thereby reducing personal tax on dividends. Normally that would not have a marked effect on revenue in the year the dividends were paid, or not paid. One wonders therefore whether a $10m cost in 1975-76 implies a quite substantial full year cost involved in the proposal. In 1972-73- the latest year for which figures are available- required distributions of private companies were about $450m. Personal tax on the dividends could be at rates of up to 65 per cent. Again I submit that the proposal was put up by people who do not know too much about what they are saying. 
Let me refer to some other items in the statement of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I think he will understand that I do not have time to cover all of them. Maximum savings associated with zero Public Service growth, etc., are likely to be no more than half that estimated by the Opposition. Zero Public Service growth itself would yield savings of about $20m. It is wrong to claim a $75m cut in the Treasurer's Advance as a reduction in outlays. There is no provision for Treasurer's Advance in budgeted outlays. I think the Opposition ought to know that. 'Other expenditure economies' are estimated to generate $480m, or almost half of the total economies, but the examples quoted by the Leader of the Opposition would yield a maximum of only about $1 15m in 1975-76 and that would require cessation of growth centres, urban rehabilitation and area improvement programs. 
Finally, if one accepts the explanations and estimates of the additional financial commitments tendered by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in his Press release- I think the precise figure was $984m- but adjusts his estimates of reduced financial commitments in the manner indicated above to accord with realistic identified savings, the maximum being $485 m, the net additional commitment implicit in the Opposition 's proposals is about $500m in 1975-76. So the figures are wrong. I submit that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is entitled to fail to understand. Certain matters were not spelt out. At least to be fair to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I think his document helped in the spelling out, but it was not quite so precise as he thought it was. I move: 
That all words after 'House' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'commends the Prime Minister for his concise and explicit outlining of the fallacies contained in the poorly constructed Opposition economic program, and, condemns the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the National Country Party for their failure to approach the economic problems of this country in a responsible manner. 
One is used to political stratagems in this House. I am sorry that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has taken valuable time out of the Budget debate to move this motion. I hope he will remember who were the authors of the kind of amendment I am moving as a counter to it. I think he brings the parliamentary process into disrepute when he adopts this kind of strategy. He has all of the next 2 weeks to clarify all his own statements and to expose what he calls the fallacies in the Budget, and likewise we have that time in which to answer the speeches that are made on the subject. 
There are plenty of people who rush in, and usually they are not very concerned about whether it is a place where angels fear to tread. I think that sometimes on both sides of politics a lot of words have been uttered that would have been better left unsaid. In my view this debate is simply taking away valuable time from honourable members who perhaps can express more clearly and confidently what they want to say than can some others in high places. 
( 12.45)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of capital grants to the States in 1975-76 totalling $430,333,000. This amount represents the grant component of the State governments' Loan Council programs for 1975-76 and is equal to one-third of the total programs- a slightly higher percentage share than in 1974-75. The Bill also provides for the payment of capital gains in the first 6 months of 1976-77 up to an amount equal to one-half of the 1975-76 amount pending passage of similar legislation in that year. Payments authorised under this Bill may be made from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or from the Loan Fund, and appropriate borrowing authority is included. These grants represent a continuation of arrangements initiated in June 1970 under which the Australian Government provides a portion of the State governments' Loan Council programs in the form of interestfree grants in lieu of what would otherwise be borrowings by the States. The savings to the States in debt charges resulting from these capital grants are substantial. 
At its meeting in June 1975, the Loan Council approved programs for the State governments totalling $ 1,291m consisting of a basic program of $ 1,281m and a special permanent addition of $10m for New South Wales in recognition of that State's relatively low per head share of Loan Council programs when compared with other States. The programs agreed to for both South Australia and Tasmania are, however, $6m lower than they would otherwise have been, as they take into account the savings that will be made in the States' capital works programs as a result of the proposed transfer of South Australia's non-metropolitan railway system and of Tasmania's railway system to the Australian Government as from 1 July 1975. The basic program for 1975-76 of $ 1,281m represents an effective increase, that is after adjustment for the effects of the railway offsets, of 20 per cent over the 1974-75 basic program. When account is taken of the special permanent addition of $ 10m for New South Wales, the increase in the total 1975-76 program over the 1974-75 basic program, becomes 20.9 per cent. The figure of 20 per cent represented the Australian Government's best, albeit very approximate, estimate of possible cost increases in the capital works field in 1975-76. In other words, the intention was to maintain the programs at roughly the same real level as in the previous year. 
The 1975-76 State Government Loan Council program is made up of borrowings totalling $860,667,000 and capital grants, to be provided by the Australian Government, of $430,333,000. At its June 1975 meeting the Loan Council also approved an increase of $ 1 32. 1 m, or 20 per cent, in the basic borrowing programs for State authorities classified as 'larger' authorities for this purpose. In 1974-75 these were semigovernment and local authorities whose individual borrowings for the year exceeded $500,000. For 1975-76 the Loan Council agreed to increase this amount to $700,000. There is no overall limit on borrowings of authorities whose individual borrowings amount to $700,000 or less in that year. 
The 'larger' authorities total program of $809.7m also includes special permanent additions of $10m for New South Wales on the same basis as the permanent addition to its State Government program to which I have already referred, and $7,075,000 for Queensland under arrangements agreed at the June 1968 Loan Council meeting in respect of the termination, at 30 June 1975, of the issue of variable interest stock by that State's Southern Electricity Authority. Further details concerning the Loan Council programs of the States and their authorities for 1975-76 may be found in chapter III of the Budget paper 'Payments to or for the States and local Government Authorities 1975-76'. 
Turning to the details of the Bill, clause 3 authorises the payment of grants to the States totalling $430,333,000 in 1975-76 and clause 4 authorises the Treasurer to make advance payments in the first 6 months of 1976-77 at the same annual rate as in the current financial year. The amounts for each state are set out in the schedule to the Bill. Under clause 5 of the Bill, payments may be made either from Consolidated Revenue Fund or Loan Fund and clause 9 provides for the necessary appropriation of these funds. The extent to which the payments will be met from Loan Fund will depend on borrowings during the year, which cannot be estimated in advance. Clauses 6 and 7 of the BUI authorises the Treasurer to borrow funds in the period from the commencement of the Act to the end of December 1976, up to the total of the amounts of the grants payable in 1975-76 and in the first 6 months of 1976-77. This borrowing authority will be reduced by the amount of any borrowings made before the commencement of this Act, under the authority of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act 1974, which may have been used to finance grants made in the first 6 months of 1975-76. 
The payments which it is proposed be authorised by this legislation are, of course, but one element in the total scheme of Australian Government assistance to the States and they need to be considered in that context. The total picture in relation to assistance to the States in 1975-76 will be discussed in the second reading speech introducing the States Grants BUI 1975. It should suffice to say here that the Government is convinced that an objective examination of the matter would show that the State governments and their authorities have been treated most handsomely indeed in the Budget. I commend the BUI to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I would say that the price at the bowser will vary from place to place.  (Opposition members interjecting)- 
-Well, it does now. Maybe the honourable member will give me the price at the bowser now. 
Pursuant to section 1 8 of the National Debt Sinking Fund Act 1966-1967, I present the fifty-second annual report of the National Debt Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
POULTRY INDUSTRY ASSISTANCE ACT  Dr PATTERSON  (Dawson-Minister for Northern Australia)- Pursuant to section 8 of the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965-66 I present the tenth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government has not had any loan transactions with, or through, this bank. On 9 July 1975 the Minister for Minerals and Energy tabled copies of certain communications with the bank. 
Published information shows  Mr J.  H. Farnum as the Manager.  Mr C.  M. Berry is listed as  President  of the Seattle First National Bank, Seattle, Washington as at 3 1 December 1974. 
Published information shows that the authorised capital of the Seattle First National Bank, Seattle, Washington on 3 1 December 1974 was $US60m. 
The Government is certainly prepared to have a look at this matter, but I will have to treat the question as a question on notice because it requires a fairly detailed reply. I think there has been some misunderstanding. A question was asked the other day by the honourable member for Fisher. If the honourable member will put his question on notice I will give him a detailed reply. I think that would be a better basis for subsequent discussion. 
I am not quite sure from what the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  said whether he is opposed to clause 7 or not, but in case he is I will read out clause 7 ( 1 ). It reads: 
The function of the Corporation is to engage in overseas trade both as principal and as agent, with the object of ensuring the maintenance and expansion of overseas trade and, in particular, overseas trade of a kind that cannot be, or is not being, adequately maintained and developed by ordinary commercial enterprise. 
One of my friends from the National Country Party came down while his leader was speaking this evening and said: 'You look worried'. I said: 'I am not worried; I am disgusted'. I change the word now and say not 'disgusted' but 'disappointed '. I say that with all respect to the attitude that has been taken to this Bill. As was pointed out, the main purpose of the Bill is to enable Australia better to engage in trade in areas where we are not doing trade. I therefore ask honourable members opposite to look particularly at the latter part of clause 7. We have cited figures in support of our argument and I have also said that from the speech of the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  I thought that we were in 1875 and not 1975. 
The honourable member could not work anything out at the moment. I think he ought to retire to where he has been all night and leave us alone. We would be better without him. At the moment the majority of Australia's export trade is in primary products and raw materialsabout 80 per cent in aggregate- and a comparatively small amount is in manufactured products. But equally, Australia cannot expect to expand its exports if in turn it does not do something about taking imports from other parts of the world. I should have thought that the honourable member for Balaclava, for whom I have some respect- he and I served on a committeewould have had a better vision of the future of Australia than he seems to have displayed tonight. Australia cannot survive in the next 10 years by taking the same attitude as it took in the last 10 years. 
At least the Bill that is before us is in my view a move in the right direction. It acknowledges that we are not doing business with parts of the world that we could do business with. I think it was pointed out that the major part of the trade that we do with the centrally planned economies is in items such as wool and wheat. Nobody is objecting to the trade being done in those commodities. But all those countries are asking, as well they should: 'How can we take goods from you unless you begin to take goods from us? This is part of the difficulty- that they do trade at a government to government level. Anybody who is following the events in Europe at the moment- I am talking of western Europe, not of eastern Europe; if you like, the so-called private enterprise economy parts of Europe- will be aware of the changing situation there. Those countries are beginning to do more central trading. Basically this is what this Bill is about. We are not interfering with business that is already being done. What we are suggesting is that there are vast areas of business with which we have to begin to deal and which we have not tapped up to date. The existing mechanisms do not provide for that kind of trade. All I would hope is that this Bill will be looked at in that light. 
When I made my second reading speech I gave a challenge at the end of it; I said that the Bill would lie on the table for a couple of months to allow representations to be made. In good faith I have listened to representations and I hope, when we deal with clause 10, to move some amendments which I have accepted from bodies that have made representations- bodies such as the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association, known as HEMA. and the Associated Chambers of Manufacturers of Australia, known as ACMA; I cannot always think of the initials, they are so prolific these days. The main opponents to this Bill are what are called commerce groups. I do not want to be denigratory of commerce groups, but in my mind commerce groups do not do as much as do manufacturing groups. I say this with all respect. Commerce is trading in commodities and commerce does not much give a damn about whether the commodity is exported or imported as long as it sells it. In my view people in commerce have blinkers on their eyes as far as the future of Australian trade is concerned. 
I have hoped that there would be a more objective approach to this Bill than we have heard this evening. I say this with all respect to the Leader of the National Country Party. The speech that he made tonight was not his proudest moment. I am prepared to accept certain amendments that have been put to me and I hope that honourable members on the other side of the chamber will have a little bit more vision. I think it is another example of the Liberal Party being led by the nose by the National Country Party. I simply say to the National Country Party that it survives. In Australia now there is a lot of talk about the beef industry, for example. The beef industry is such at the moment that something like 60 per cent of its productive capacity depends on sales overseas. The principal market for overseas sales is the United States of America which is taking less proportionately, but at the moment taking slightly more than we expected. 
Thank goodness for it; exactly. I have done everything I could do to see it expand. Japan is another area that is taking more. But what you will acknowledge is that in one of the areas where we did sell a lot, Europe, it is going to be very difficult to sell much for several years ahead. We did get orders from Russia. 
It is rather facetiously called by honourable members opposite one of the commie countries. 
As was said by one of my colleagues, you will sell live sheep or dead sheep, or you will sell wheat or you will sell sugar to them, but, when it suits you, you denigrate their politics. 
The right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  was always rather careless with his noughts. The contingent liability of the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation is $50m. The capital is $ 1 m. At least, let us be accurate. I admired the right honourable gentleman more as Leader of the Opposition than as a legal advocate. He has not shown himself at his best in that capacity tonight. The value of Australia's export and import trade combined is of the order of $ 1 6 billion per annum. 
All the right honourable member does is confirm that he is careless with his noughts. But there is a big difference between basing his case on an assumption of $500m and basing it on $50m. I think that he would concede at least the point that $50m does not make the corporation a giant that will overtake Australia's private enterprise activity. 
I come back to the major part of clause 7 (2). We are not talking about trade that has already been attained. We are talking about the potential that is there and has not been availed of. It is my belief that it will be better availed of if we have an institution such as this corporation. Let us try to be objective about the position. New Zealand has such an entity; Canada has one. As I indicated earlier, even the United States of America does a lot more of this kind of trading, government to government, than the Opposition is prepared to concede. Within the European Economic Community arrangements, more and more trade takes place within the EEC as against outside it and is being done on a government to government centralised level. The Opposition might not like this kind of trade. But my belief is that Australia will not survive in the years ahead unless it adapts itself to changing circumstances. I tried to point out that the volume of trade in the centrally planned economies is of the order of $100 billion per annum of which, on the latest figures, Australia's share at the moment is $530m. It is a lesser proportion, despite what the right honourable gentleman who has just left the chamber said, of our total trade now than it was 10 years ago. Surely this should give us some cause for thought. I am not arguing the point that the major part of the trade which we do in those areas is in commodities such as wool and wheat. We do have adequate mechanisms in those areas. Wheat is sold in a special way. Wool tends to be sold to those areas on a government to government basis. But there are other areas of activity. I have received periodically what we call mixed commissions which have come to Australia from places such as Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia. 
All good countries. These commissions claim that they are able to supply us with goods and that the customers here do not know of the availability of those goods. At least this mechanism helps to make better communication between us. I hope that this is accepted as a central proposition. 
I was in Russia recently. I had never been there before.I am sorry that I was not there 20 years ago, because I would like to have compared what I saw recently with what Russia was like 20 years ago. I must say that in many respects I was surprised by the economic growth in that country, particularly in that thing which I thought was the horror of Western civilisation, the motor car. In Moscow and Leningrad the Russians are succumbing to its blandishments. They believe that they are capable of supplying Australia with sophisticated equipment in areas such as electricity generation. Candidly, I am not quite as optimistic as they are about the prospects. At least I could say to them that Australia traditionally has bought these things from America or the United Kingdom. This has been a traditional arrangement and who am I to say that the Russian equipment is better than the American or British? I think there is some obligation on our part at least to give them the opportunity to come and contact people here. One of the difficulties on their part is to break through. Our trade tends to be on a private basis, not a government basis. Selling at the other end has to be through some sort of government agency. 
All we feel about this measure is that it puts Australia and, indirectly, potential exporters and importers- at the moment I am not arguing about the relativity between an exporter and an importer; I say that we have to export and to import- in a better position to trade rationally with what is now getting close to half the world's population. We are in a better position with this sort of mechanism than without it. I hope that honourable members opposite will strip away a certain amount of ideological obsession and get down to the realities of Australia in 1975. It is all right bellyaching about submarines in the Indian Ocean and things of that kind. I believe that, with what took place recently in Helsinki and with detente- somebody mentioned this earlier tonight- at least as far as Europe is concerned boundaries are reasonably well settled for the years ahead. 
-I think every part of the world has problems. I believe that a country such as Australia has to accommodate itself with places such as China, Russia on its eastern front, Siberia- it will not be divided into two in our lifetimeand the centrally planned economies; that is, those who want to do business in Australia and nearly all of whom are represented here diplomatically. I believe that we are at a disadvantage because of the trading mechanism. It is all right for commercial groups that have done well in the past and may not be doing as well as they would like at present, but we are talking about areas that so far have not been tapped as markets. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Progress reported. 
-I believe that the shadow Minister ought to be well aware that there are some pitfalls, if I may say so, in trying to draw a year's conclusions from the first month or 2 months of the financial year's transactions. I am sure that he, like other honourable members, has been supplied with the full details of the expenditure for the 2 months to the end of August 1975 as against the 2 months to the end of August 1974. If he reads those details carefully, he will .find that $60m of that expenditure was in the category of defence. Does he believe that we are spending too much on defence? The expenditure on education is up by almost $ 100m. I have had many people claiming that there is not enough being spent on education. In the area of health, the difference is of the order of $140m. In the area of housing, it is $250m. Again, there seem to be complaints that not enough money is being spent in that category. Payments to the States are $200m greater in the 2 months of the financial year 1 975-76 than they were in the financial year 1974-75. This economy would have been in a far worse position had there not been an acceleration of Government expenditure over recent months. I suggest to the honourable gentleman that he read the figures carefully, indicate to me where he thinks expenditure could be reduced and I will answer his question. 
-I can assure the honourable gentleman that that will not be the case. He knows as well as anybody else knows that this Government cannot spend money for which it does not have an appropriation. There are unevennesses from month to month. I cited the defence figures. Orders came in which had to be paid for. The other day some curious character in Queensland suggested that the Government was not paying its accounts. I wish he would check the facts before making silly statements like that. There are unevennesses. Housing moneys were advanced to the States early because the States claimed that they needed them. It is quite wrong to multiply the figure by six and say that that will be the end result. 
I wish that these matters were as simple as the right honourable gentleman makes out. Perhaps if he and I did have a talk he would learn as well as he thinks I would. The Budget did do certain things in relation to the company position. It doubled the normal depreciation allowances that could be claimed. It reduced the basic company tax rate by 2V4 per cent. The question of indexation was considered in a document known as the 'Mathews Report' and with all due respect to that report, I do not think it was anywhere near as good as the right honourable gentleman claimed the other day when he described it, if I heard him properly, as a brilliantly written document. The matters are not as simple as that and it is no justice when one section of the community tries to index itself at the expense of the rest. 
I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ) omit ' a particular importer in '. 
In sub-clause (1) omit 'that importer', substitute 'an importer'. 
Actually I think that the amendments are selfexplanatory. As I indicated in my second reading speech, the Bill was left for consideration for some 2 months and representations were made to me by those interested in it. These 2 amendments are the consequence of suggestions made in the view of those who wanted to improve the clause. I ask the Committee to accept the amendments. 

 - Mr Chairman, I will reply briefly. I wish my friend from Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  had continued reading. He chose one excerpt, but he did not go on to say: 
It is not intended that the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation would enjoy, as a Government agency, any exclusive or preferred position in trading, nor would it seek to cut across or interfere with existing trade patterns or associations developed by Australian trading houses. It would concentrate on the generation of new business. 
I repeat that assurance. I think my friend from Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has well pointed out that if paragraph (b) of sub-clause ( 1 ) were not there in essence the legislation virtually would be conferring monopoly powers on anybody who happened to be engaged in these activities already, which is not necessarily fair. 
The honourable member for Lilley has now left the chamber. I was going to explain the meaning of the word 'know' to him, but he seems to have disappeared. He asked how we would know. One thing that we do know at the moment is that, apart from trade in wheat and wool, in the sort of area that we are talking about trade is virtually nil. With all respect to those who defend private enterprise, it seems to me that private enterprise has not been very enterprising in these areas. There are some rather good reasons why it is not easy, either, to be enterprising in countries which have different kinds of economies. For our part, we still assert here- I get representations from the centrally planned economies- that trading in Australia is on a private person to private person basis as far as possible. Nevertheless, the trading patterns of those countries are different. It is our belief in bringing forward a measure of this type that we are missing out because of that fact. That is what I would have hoped might have been the attitude adopted rather than what seems to me to be a fairly obscurantist attitude about trade generally, ignoring that the kinds of areas that this legislation is specified to cover are countries with which we virtually do not trade at all. It is not as though we are taking anything away. Where Australian trade has been successfully generated, we are prepared not to interfere. We would even encourage that trade and perhaps assist it to get better. 
The point was made about Government officials now knowing as much as commercial operators about activities in this area. Well, we are not proposing to staff the Australian Overseas Trading Commission with public servants. At least I am interested in the wide variety of people who have indicated interest in joining this organisation. Unfortunately, because of the economic moves and so on, we will not be able to take many of them. But I assure the Committee that there are very many good applicants who come from that field of private enterprise. 
My friend from Lilley is back. I say to him that our knowledge arises from our trade commissioner services that already exist and from the kind of information that we have built up within the Department of Manufacturing Industry which, I think, is praised by industry in Australia. We can almost tell any potential importer or exporter at very short notice with what types of firms both inside and outside Australia they, in their respective activities, are likely to be able to trade. We obtain information from my own Department, the Department of Overseas Trade. We have a network now, as honourable members know, of very efficient trade commissioners around the world. Items cannot be imported into or exported from Australia without there being some sort of recording arrangements at the level of customs and excise. I mention also the Export Finance Insurance Corporation which maintains contact. In many cases insurance is sought for these transactions. Whilst knowledge in that sense is not always specific, I think it is broad enough to be better than just generality. 
-No. The present set-up is not adequate if one looks at the very small amount of trading that we have with these areas as against the potential that exists. If we take out the commodities, wheat and wool in particular, which are traded- the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Wool Board are Government agencies which assist in those sales- trade by Australia with approximately one third of the world's population is negligible. I would have hoped that members of the Opposition might have taken a wider view of this legislation than they have. I can understand the defence of commercial groups, industrial groups and so on. But I think it can be said quite categorically that they have not been very successful in securing trade in these areas. 
Our belief, with which presumably the Opposition differs, is that our trade will be assisted by an organisation such as the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. Other countries have similar organisations. The United States of America, for instance, has all sorts of devices to assist its so-called private enterprises in its trading with these countries. Europe, unfortunately, at the moment is beginning to form itself into a bloc. In sheer self defence, I believe that Australia has to begin to do the same sort of thing. It is in this light that legislation such as this must be brought down. If Opposition members are dedicated to opposing it, knowing the curious combination of numbers they can introduce in another place, I suppose that that is the end of it. But I would have hoped that at least this legislation would have been regarded as an honest attempt, and not as an insidious device to impose, as somebody said, socialism by stealth, or near enough to it. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 1 1 agreed to. 
Clause 12. 
) Subject to this section, this Act does not authorize the Corporation to engage in the production or manufacture of goods. 
Sub-section (1) does not prevent the Corporation from- 
a ) arranging for the production or manufacture by other persons of goods for the purposes of its overseas trade; 
engaging in the processing or packaging of goods for the purposes of its overseas trade; or 
producing or manufacturing goods for use in the processing, packaging or marketing of goods for the purposes of its overseas trade. 
I move: 
 Omit paragraph (c). 
I have proposed this amendment in response to representations concerning the Bill. 
In the course of my second reading speach I referred to the fact and I accept the point that in many respects some small companies have been far more enterprising internationally than have some large companies. In some areas a single small company can be at a disadvantage in that it may be able to supply only a limited quantity of certain goods that may be required in larger numbers. The Overseas Trading Corporation will not make the goods but will order the goods from companies which can manufacture them. By its existence in the Overseas Trading Corporation the Government can make contact with some of the centrally planned systems which indicate the need for certain kinds of goods and services which Australia is capable of producing but a total run of which perhaps one firm alone is incapable of satisfying. That is the kind of logic that has been used. The Corporation will not make the goods but will commission others to make them. It will not go to company B to make goods if company A exists and has an order for them. That is an example of the intention of the legislation. All I ask is that this legislation be accepted in good faith. 
I believe that in the next 10 years international trade will not be as easy to obtain as it has been, and Australia will need to expand its total trade. The Government sees this sort of organisation as an arm to help. I accept the praise which the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  gave to the existing Department of Overseas Trade and its arrangements. The Opposition does not seem to be terrified by it, so why is it suspicious about this new arm of the Department which the Government believes is now necessary to trade in those areas in which we are not trading as successfully as we might be and where we believe there is potential? We want to utilise the capacity of industry in Australia in order to do this. Small firms are often disadvantaged. They do not have translators or facilities with bankers overseas which some of the bigger concerns may have. I hope that we will be fostering this trade and not in any way interfering with what is already being done. That is the best explanation I can give and I ask the Opposition to believe that the Government is honest in its intent. 
Again I can only give the assurance that that is not the intent. Insofar as one can rely on legal opinions, the advice of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  is that that is not the intent. That is the only defence I can use. I have tried to explain that the Overseas Trading Corporation does not intend to make the goods. It will arrange for the production or manufacture by other persons for the purpose of the Corporation's overseas trade. That seems to me not to suggest that the Corporation will import goods that it has asked to be made in other countries. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 1 3 (Transactions in national interest). 
I thought we were discussing clause 13 dealing with national interests. I think the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr 
Jarman) and the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  at least dealt with clause 13. I am not too sure whether the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  did. If anybody could give me a definition of national interest in simple terms, I would be very interested to have it. We have sought in quite a number of Acts in this Parliament, Acts brought down by previous governments, to indicate that sometimes things may be required to be done in the national interest. Such a provision as is contained in clause 13 is already in legislation relating to the Export Finance Insurance Corporation, formerly the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. A similar general power is provided in the Australian Wheat Board legislation. 
There are many instances, as I am sure the honourable member for Paterson would know, when wheat has been sold on non-commercial terms. I repeat that we have sold wheat in these conditions because of the mechanism of the Wheat Board. There well may be other sorts of transactions in other than wheat which are of a long term or development basis where it would be to Australia's advantage to sell the thing, a capital project of some kind, but where on normal terms it would not be commercial. In such an instance the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation would come to its Minister as the Wheat Board now comes to the Minister for Agriculture or the Treasurer- I am not quite sure still whose final responsibility it is- in respect of the Export Finance Insurance Corporation. I did and still do get requests, let us say, for a transaction with Indonesia where interest is being sought at a lower rate than the normal rate. There have been one or two instances when we have complied. 
All we are suggesting is that when the AOTC works, as I would hope it will work, there will be instances of perhaps longer term development and capital projects where it will still be a sensible and viable thing for Australia to do the business but where there may have to be some concessional rate of interest or some accommodation about the terms of payment. I must say I find it rather curious that wheat, which is a product reasonably quickly consumed, should be sold on long term credit at all. The Wheat Board would like not to do it, but there have been occasions when it has been prudent for it, if we were to sell it at all, to sell it on long term credit. One country recently bought in desperation when the price was high and when the price subsequently fell and it had not taken delivery of all its wheat it wanted to renegotiate at the lower price. As the honourable member for Balaclava said, in the finish this is a matter relating to our foreign aid or foreign exchange assistance rather than trade. Nevertheless in certain circumstances such transactions could make trade flow. 
All we say is that there may be instances of transactions such as those referred to in the clause. The matter has to come to the Minister via the Corporation itself. The Minister does not intervene directly, but if the Corporation believes that a transaction in the long run would have some economic viability but that in one sense there are certain non-commercial aspects that have to be looked at, it comes to the Minister, and if after consideration the Minister says yes, then the Corporation is reimbursed for any subsidy or potential loss that might be involved. That is the nature of the clause. I would hope that I have explained the position by using wheat as an example. Wheat has been the subject of trade with some centrally planned economies, but the Wheat Board, which has been responsible for these sales, cannot sell other than wheat. The Australian Overseas Trading Corporation might be able to do similar sorts of transactions, say, in capital goods, machinery and so on. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 14 and 15- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16. 
The Australian Overseas Trading Corporation shall consist of- 
a Chairman; 
a Deputy Chairman; 
the Managing Director; 
the Deputy Managing Director; and 
6 other Directors. 
The  Chairman,  the  Deputy Chairman  and the Directors referred to in paragraph (1) (e) shall be appointed by the Governor-General and shall be so appointed as parttime Directors. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (2) insert the following sub-clause: '(2a) A person shall not be appointed as a Director unless he appears to the Governor-General to be qualified for appointment by virtue of his knowledge of, or experience in, industry, commerce, public administration, finance or industrial matters. '. 
This amendment is to enable as broad a classification as is possible of people who serve as directors on the Corporation. I hope that this will be seen as an improvement to the efficiency of the Corporation. 
I move: 
After 'the Corporation' insert ' shall act in accordance with sound commercial principles and'. 
I am sure that again the Opposition would think that this amendment is an improvement to the clause. 
My understanding is that it is a standard enough clause in this type of legislation. There is a similar clause in the legislation setting up the Australian National Line and in many other pieces of legislation. The clause states that the Government shall stand behind the Corporation. I guess that it is thought that this ought to be good enough rather than to allow every individual creditor whose transaction was not with Australia but with the Corporation to sue Australia in respect of his claim. I would have thought that this was a normal commercially prudent thing to do. If one cannot get satisfaction from the Corporation, Australia guarantees the debt and I would not have thought that we would want any suing power against Australia. I will endeavour to get an explanation for the honourable member and if he is not satisfied with it the matter can be raised in the other place. I am not a lawyer but I have seen this clause before and it seems to me to be a standard one. 
A note just handed to me is to the the effect that it is a standard legal clause to prevent the Australian Government as opposed to the Corporation being involved in litigation. This would seem to me to be sensible enough, even on the part of the potential litigant who would know in advance what the situation was. 
Remainder of the Bill agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I intrude at this point because of the speech that has just been made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who I suppose would presume to be the next Treasurer of this nation if there were a change in government. For the last 2 days he has been endeavouring, both by placing questions on notice and then by a curious device of writing to me a letter which he released to the Press, to get certain questions answered. If I may say so, the questions display a very primitive knowledge on his part of the finances of this nation. For instance, he made great play about the expenditure in the 2 months to the end of August as against the expenditure for those 2 months a year before, and for some reason he came up with the rather astonishing conclusion that we are going to run out of funds because we are spending too fast. Before he made his speech today, I asked him whether he would have a look at the figures that are presented. I think one of the apalling things in all the financial debates in this Parliament over a great period of years has been that very little use has been made of the very substantial information that is provided. Whether little use is made of it because it cannot be understood I do not know. 
Projected in this Budget for the 12 months to the end of June 1976 is expenditure in aggregate of $2 1,9 15.2m. I ask the Deputy Leader of the Opposition why he does not divide that by six. Honourable members opposite have ' a great habit of multiplying particular numbers by six to get an annual result. If they divide the projected total expenditure to the end of June 1976 by sixthat is a 2-month average, if you like- they will come across a figure of $3,652m, which is $400m greater than the 2 months expenditure which has already occurred and which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is criticising. I find it difficult to know upon what the kind of analysis that is being made is supposed to be based. 
The honourable gentleman has also asked me a number of questions about Supply Bills (No. 1 ) and (No. 2). I think he has the rather primitive belief that it is only expenditure under these 2 Supply Bills that is authorised. Again I draw his attention to the Bill we are now debating, Appropriation Bill (No. 1), and another one that always gets very perfunctory treatment, Appropriation Bill (No. 2), which of course deals with capital works as distinct from ordinary annual expenditure. Those 2 Bills between them account for $6.9 billion, near enough to $7 billion, in one case and $2,268 billion in the other; in other words, something like $9.25 billion out of total projected expenditure of nearly $22 billion. Of course there are things like payments to the States and payments out of the National Welfare Fund which are automatically appropriated. They do not form part of the Appropriation Bills (No. 1 ) and (No. 2) or, in the 5-month carry over period, the Supply Bills (No. 1 ) and (No. 2). 
It is very easy for people to ask what they think are clever questions either at question time or through questions on notice, but sometimes what they do not seem to indicate is the lack of cleverness on the part of the people who ask the questions. It seems to me that there is an attempt here somehow to indicate that the Australian nation, via its Treasury processes, is bankrupt. I regard that as a very dangerous approach to take. I am a little bit regretful that the gentleman who presumes to be the next Treasurer is disposed to take that sort of approach. He, through the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the other night adopted much the same sorts of Budget parameters as those contained in this Budget. He said that there should be a deficit of the order of $2.8 billion. He would have the same difficulty as any other government in financing that deficit. Yet he is prepared to try to be clever about asking this Government- this is a question that was never asked of other governments- at this point in time how that deficit is proposed to be financed. He says that in the defences that are giventhat we could do it by taxes, by resort to loans, overseas borrowing, the printing presses or the Reserve Bank- somehow this Government is less forthcoming in its explanations than previous governments were. That is not the case. 
He is trying equally to make a point about the Advance to the Treasurer. Certainly the Advance to the Treasurer now has to be larger than Advances to the Treasurer in other times. Nothing can be spent out of the Treasurer's Advance which will not finally receive the approval of the Parliament itself. In my view the Treasurer's Advance is a quite sensible device. I offered no objection in my days as shadow Treasurer when the amount was progressively put up. Surely to goodness, given the rising population and inflation, the parameters are different in 1975 from what they were in other days. Scoring cheap debating points instead of trying to get down to an analysis of the difficulties seems to me to be vacating any responsibility. 
Yesterday I gave what I thought was a sensible kind of answer to a rather silly question that was asked. That has been followed by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition resorting, as I said, to writing a letter to me and then releasing the letter to the Press. I wish sometimes that the 
Press would write about things with a little more knowledge of what they are supposed to write about. I have said before that the Press in this country has become a series of keyhole reporters rather than reporters of substance. I agree with the answer that was given by my colleague, the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass),  today about the Press. I suppose that a lot of what goes on here is tedious and boring, but that is part of the substance of democratic institutions. I think it behoves the potential Treasurer, as that is what he claims to be - 
-You say that he is. I hope you will give him a little bit of schooling. I hope that he will be a little bit more responsible in the kinds of questions that he asks. I, as shadow Treasurer, would never have asked the silly sort of questions that he released to the Press after writing to me about it, because I think it shows a rather fundamental ignorance of the processes of government finance. 
I have intruded in the debate at this point only because I hope that this sort of nonsense can be scotched. If the honourable gentleman claims, as he did through his Leader the other night, that he would have budgeted for a deficit of the magnitude of $2.8 billion, he would have faced precisely the same sort of difficulties or problems as we face. But somehow to suggest that what we are doing is falsifying or cooking the books I think is unworthy of him. I hope that at least he will take heed of the realities of the situation; that is, that the Treasury book keeping is honest. 
I think a lot of information has been produced which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has not read. He has suggested that he does not know what the monetary policy is. I would say that it is as explicit as it can be and is written within the documents. Those who are too blind to see are never likely to comprehend and this seems to me to be part of the difficulty here. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is attempting to make cheap political scoring on everything, confident that if he cannot get his way here he can use the contrived numbers in the other place, numbers which have been made worse than they already were by the elevation of the new senator, supposedly as a Labor man. The Opposition thereby is frustrating the proper processes of democracy. This is not my understanding of a democratic system. I often wonder what the situation would be if the Australian Constitution had been written in 19 14 instead of in 1 90 1 . The provisions in the Constitution about what Senates can do about money Bills was an acknowledgement of the convention that had never been breached in the British system, but which for sheer political expediency the Opposition is willing to breach at any time. Governments in Australia ought to be made and unmade by defeat in this House of Parliament not by curious chance numbers that occur - 
It has a lot to do with them, because of the attitude that has been taken in this debate. The questions asked yesterday were indicative enough of that. And,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  there should not be any interjections from a senator sitting in the back of this chamber. I heard what he said and he ought to be quiet. I would have enough dignity if I were sitting where he is sitting to say things so softly they would not be heard once. It is a sign of contempt on that senator's part that he is prepared to speak in that way. This is the kind of level to which constitutional practice has been brought in Australia.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I am sorry that you did not rebuke him. At least I heard him say something and he has no right to say anything in here. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  In my own defence, I did not hear what the senator said, I was so entranced with your eloquence. 
I have listened with interest to this debate and I intervened at one stage. 1 undertake that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  when he returns tomorrow, will reply in writing to some of the technical matters that have been raised. I would like to comment on one or two matters that have been raised. As an employee of the Taxation Office many years ago, I was rather disturbed by the comments of the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann).  Occasionally there may be misunderstandings, but I hope that it is not thought that the Taxation Office is totally inefficient. I find it a very efficient and very obliging department. If particular examples of misunderstanding occur, I wish that honourable members would notify the Commissioner of Taxation direct, rather than try to malign the whole of what I believe is a very efficient service. 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  referred to Medibank and to the costs if New South Wales should enter the scheme. It ought to be pointed out that the Estimates can be only estimates of expenditure which the Government knows it must incur, not of expenditure that is likely to be incurred if New South Wales enters the scheme. That is not what Estimates are about. They are about things of which the Government is contractually aware. I think that New South Wales has been very foolish not to come in and I think that pressure from the people there will make it come in. If that is the case, obviously additional provision will have to be made. On the other hand, the Government cannot make provisions in anticipation of New South Wales coming in. 
A comparison was made between Australia and Canada. I do not know whether the honourable member allowed for the difference in values of the dollars. Canadian dollars are not as good as Australian dollars. One needs to add nearly one-third to get the equivalent in terms of Canadian dollars. At least the Canadian scheme currently covers the whole of Canada. If New South Wales is out of the scheme here, something like 40 per cent of the population is not covered. When New South Wales enters, as I believe it ultimately will, perhaps the per capita cost will correspond to that in Canada. I think that this is indicative of the costs of medical service these days. I believe that medical service is better provided this way than if it is left to the hazards of what used to be called private insurance. 
-The costs would be the same whether the service was financed under the old scheme or the new scheme. What seems to be ignored sometimes is that at least the taxpayersthose people who are quoted so often- no longer have to pay a so-called voluntary contribution. Whilst it was not called a tax, in my view it was the equivalent of a tax. I used to pay the best part of $5 a week to receive full hospital and medical cover. To me, it was just as irksome as if it were a tax. The cost is there, whichever way the scheme is financed. I wish that, when comparing one scheme with another, people would not assume that the scheme we had was costless and that the scheme we now have is costly. That is a very unfair description. However, I point out that the provision of $ 1,445m for Medibank appears in the estimates for the Department of Social Security and I think it would be better if honourable members asked their questions during the consideration of those estimates. But I make the point that I can make that New South Wales is not covered because New South Wales is not a contractual party yet to the arrangement. 
I do not want to go into a lengthy debate about what the deficit is likely to be next year or whether we can ever do without deficits. Whether they are high, whether they are low or whether there is a surplus is rather circumstantial according to the conditions of the time. I believe that at the moment a deficit is inevitable. I think it is rather difficult- I think I said this in the Parliament the other day- to reckon that $2,900m is disaster, $2,700m is prudence and $2, 800m is just right. I do not think we have that sort of exactness in what used to be called fine tuning, to use that lovely term. At least on this occasion both the Opposition and the Government assume a deficit of the magnitude of $2, 800m in the circumstances. 
I will take note of the case that was raised of the taxpayer and the iron lung and see that we give at least a detailed reply, and similarly with the examples that were cited by the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia. I will see that the Treasurer looks at those matters. I thank honourable members who have contributed to the debate. I think it has been a friendly and useful debate on the whole. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman, I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 4 September be varied by postponing the consideration of the proposed expenditures for the Attorney-General's Department and the Department of Police and Customs. I would point out that the reason for this, of course, is the absence at the moment of the Attorney-General. I ask the Committee to concur with that suggestion. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)There  being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
This is my maiden question as Minister for Overseas Trade. Everybody must be very happy with the administration of the Department of Overseas Trade. I hope that the beef industry has passed through the worst of its phases but it by no means yet faces a very pleasant prospect. It needs to be borne in mind that we have reached the stage in Australia where something like 60 per cent of the capacity of the beef industry is devoted to sales overseas. The principal markets in the past have been the United States of America, Japan, Europe and the United Kingdom. Due to economic recession all those countries have put restrictions upon the access of Australian beef to their markets. We have been able to negotiate a quota arrangement with the United States which, while not being as satisfactory as we would like, is certainly better than nothing. Recently, because some other countries that were participating in the quota arrangements were not able to fulfil their deliveries, we secured a further quota of 10 000 tonnes. More recently the Japanese market has begun to open up slightly and there are prospects of it being better in the future. I am afraid that the European market for the time being is a very bleak prospect. 
However, it seems that some experts believe, and to some extent I support their view, that the likelihood is that by 1976 there could again be a world shortage of beef. This is an unfortunate situation, but Australia cannot be expected to have the beef on hand just in case some other country runs short. We should endeavour as far as possible to get forward orders, at least for particular quantities, and we do work in that direction. We recently opened up a market in Russia for 40 000 tonnes. Unfortunately, due to shipping and other problems, we were able to deliver only 35 000 tonnes. However, I assure the honourable gentleman that the Department of Overseas Trade, the Minister for Agriculture and I are taking all the steps we can to secure freer access and certainty of quantity. 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The advertising budget for 1 975-76 is $257,350. 
The types of advertising entailed are: 
Trade promotion advertising in Australia; Product group advertising overseas; Trade co-operative advertising overseas; Support advertising for trade displays overseas; Advertising for trade missions; Advertising staff vacancies; 
Advertising Revaluation Adjustment Assistance scheme; 
Advertising Export Market Development Grants scheme; 
Advertising variations to products covered by the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. 
Expenditure over the last five years was: 1974-75 $240,627; 1973-74 $289,565; 1972-73 $497,082; 1971-72 $555,658; 1970-71 $415,230. 
DC3 Aircraft  (Question No. 2887) 
The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  referred twice rather picturesquely to something being rhetoric and words. With all respect, I have heard nothing but rhetoric and words in the 2 speeches made by members of the Opposition. I recall, for the benefit of the House, that the title of this urgency debate is the misleading estimate of the deficit contained in the 1975-76 Budget. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  as spokesman for both parties on the Opposition side, has said that had he been the Treasurer or had his Parties formed the government on this occasion he would have been budgeting for the same order of deficit as that in this Budget, $2,800m in round terms or, to be precise, $2,798.4m. That at least, is a common starting point. I have heard some curious arithmetic this afternoon to try to turn that deficit of $2,800m. It has varied from $3,300m to $3, 500m, and the last honourable member who spoke said that it was going to be more than a billion dollars out. He has given absolutely no information to justify that statement. I think it is appalling that people should get up and make outrageous statements which throw doubt upon the accuracy and integrity of the figures. 
Let us consider what seems to me to be the figure on which the Opposition is basing this horrendous calculation. It is found in this document which is circulated month by month by the Treasury, for the last 30 years or so to my knowledge, and which is still known rather colloquially as the Niemeyer statement. It shows figures for the 3 months ended 30 September 1975 and there is no camouflage of the figures. It is odd sometimes what the Opposition will accept as accurate, when is suits it, and then pour out rhetoric and words to suggest that the rest is false. The document shows that to 30 September 1975 there is a deficit of $ 1,887m. That is the difference, to the end of September 1975, between government expenditure and government receipts. To begin with we must all acknowledge that government expenditure goes on fairly evenly all the year but receipts do not. At least this is one reason why there is a deficit as early as in the first eight or nine months of the financial year. If we were to do our arithmetic by four, as honourable members opposite do when it suits them, we would find that on the outlay or expenditure side the expenditure for the 3 months ended 30 September 1975 is $4,948m as against a Budget estimate for 1975-76 of $21,915m. The period to 30 September 1975 is one quarter of the financial year, but to date, in the first 3 months, there has not been a quarter of the total expenditure. 
The honourable member claims to be an accountant. He claims to be an analyst of financial statements. At least in the first 3 months the Government has not spent as quickly as the projected outlays would suggest. One other difference that honurable members opposite might have noticed had they wanted to- the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  as an accountant, ought to be aware of this- is that on the receipts side under the item of company taxation, in the first 3 months of this year the Government collected $504m as against $50m for the same 3 months of last year. Had that not been the case the deficit would have been even greater than honourable members opposite suggest. At least they know that the reason is that last year the Government deferred the collection of company tax on a quarterly basis. That simply indicates how false it is to make comparisons unless one compares like with like. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  pointed to the figure to which my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has drawn attention. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition took out of the air the one figure- borrowings from Reserve Bank- $848m. He did not look at the other items which are quite different, such as the use of cash balances, where the Government has used $600m more in these 3 months than in a previous year. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition drew attention to the change in Treasury Notes. The only reason why there has been resort to the Reserve Bank is that there has been a drain-down of liquidity on the score of company tax. I think that the Opposition concedes at least that. There has been some variation because Treasury bills, instead of having been collected, have been withdrawn. 
Another item that has been carefully ignored is that the Government has received $67 lm in the 3 months as proceeds on loans raised whereas in the previous year the sum was only $61m. There is a difference of about $600m in the figures. Surely to goodness there have to be some acceptable parameters from both sides of the House when we are trying to analyse the nation's accounts. Expenditure and receipts do not coincide month by month. Trying to have explained now how the deficit will ultimately be financed is a lot of nonsense. Honourable member opposite should look at the tables in the Budget papers that show how the deficit has been composed. Table 6 on page 144 of the statements attached to the Budget shows a summary of Australian Government Budget sector financing transactions from 1965-66 to 1974-75. Honourable members should look at the miscellany of items which go to make up a deficit- the pluses and minuses in a multitude of things. They should look at another sort of compilation of the Budget deficit on page 12 of the statements entitled 'Formation of the Volume of Money'. A Budget deficit is part of that. Again there is a variety of items- international and national, taxing and non-taxing, loan and revenue- that go to make the figure what it is. 
I am appalled by this kind of attack. It has been perpetrated in the debate on the estimates of the Department of the Treasury. The Opposition has been given all sorts of answers in the Senate Estimates debates about the nature of the deficit and so on, and honourable members opposite are still prepared to initiate the shabby debate that we have witnessed today. They did not demonstrate in what way the Budget Estimates are dishonest. They sought to do so. With all respect, I think that they failed to do so. In failing to do so they have done a great deal of damage to the confidence of the nation in the presentation of these national accounts. Of course, it is all part of the whip-up to let the Senate do what no Senate has dared to do before, what no Senate should ever try to do. The one Bill in which there is a difference is a money Bill. It can originate only in this place. It cannot be amended in the Senate. Intelligible political usage would show that it cannot be rejected in the Senate without bringing the processes of constitutional government into disrepute and disarray. When it suits honourable members opposite they are the people who claim to be the espousers of sound constitutional principle and democracy. In the numbers game they will do anything to bring into disrepute any government that is not a government of their kind. We won here in 1972. We won again in 1974. We have never been defeated on the floor of this House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Minister's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
The Government opposes the motion which seeks to suspend the Standing Orders. I find a great deal of difficulty, with all respect to my friend from Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who has just spoken, to distinguish in his language between history and hysteria. I would have respected this escapade had it been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and seconded by the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  The Leader of the National Country Party is here. He is listening to the debate. I do not know where the Leader of the Opposition is. The honourable member for Moreton, whose language I respect -sometimes I respect his perspicacity- referred to the utter gravity of the matter. With all respect to the honourable gentleman, I think that the matter of most utter gravity of the moment that is appearing in the Australian system is: Who governs Australia? In my view, they govern Australia who have the numbers in this House of the Parliament. There has been a lot of nonsense in recent days about refusing supply- 
You do not say much, with all respect. 
You will not be saying much from now on either. 
-Well, I speak for myself in this place and I hope that everyone else can speak for himself too. 
-Well, the motion seeks the suspension of the Standing Orders. 
Sometimes I think that it is very hard to define humbug. With all respect to the honourable gentleman, I think he knows the definition of it better than I do. At the moment, this nation faces a certain difficulty- a constitutional crisis, if honourable members like- and the question that arises is: Who governs Australia? I say to my friend on the other side that at least I respect his integrity. But with all deference and parliamentary diffidence, I do not respect the integrity of some of the others, including those who move a motion of this sort. There is a certain section in the Constitution- and I think this is what all of the discussion is about in the finishwhich acknowledges to begin with that there is only one House that can originate what are called money Bills. 
-It has a lot to do with what you are talking about, with all respect. 

 -Mr Speaker, I hope that you will give me the same deference as you gave to the honourable member who is taking the point of order. 
Exactly. 
I was saying that there is a convention that provides that money Bills can be originated in one place only, that is, here. The section says that money Bills are Bills which the Senate may not amend. I am suggesting that there is only one sensible and intelligible interpretation of that provision in 1975, that is, that such a Bill is a Bill which the Senate may not reject. 
Again the neophytes who are here for the first time- and some of them by accident - 
-They profess to know all about it. Surely everybody here respects constitutional usage. 
-Well, parliamentary practice too. 
-With all respect,  Mr Speaker,  and I speak through you- I speak particularly to my honourable friend from Moreton who is one who claims, when it suits him, to stand upon precedents and upon usage, and I hope that my friend opposite does the same sort of thing. 

 Mr Ellicott I hope that you read my article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  this morning. 
I am not a regular reader of the Sydney Morning Herald. I try to do my best to read the few respectable journals left in Victoria. 
They are not very many. I sometimes wonder what those who claim to be defending parliamentary usage and constitutionality and so on are doing at the moment. There is only one place under the Westminster system where governments are made or unmade and that is the House of Representatives. When we look at what the Opposition parties have done with respect to what are called occasional or casual vacancies in the Senate - 
I will be kind to the honourable member for Lowe. 
I think he would be better out of the place than in it. 
His reputation was great. 
I see by the light in the clock that my time has almost expired. I reiterate what I said when I began. The Government opposes the motion for the suspension for Standing Orders. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the time of the New Zealand devaluation  Mr Rowling,  the New Zealand Prime Minister, stated that 'There must be a sizeable transfer of incomes back to farming. A devaluation is the simplest and quickest way to do this . . .'. While this does not constitute a 'promise', there is the implication that New Zealand will attempt to maintain its export prices in terms of United States dollars for farm products. As far as I am aware, New Zealand has done this in the case of skim milk powder. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the answer the Prime Minister gave to a similar question, No. 31 10 which appeared in  Hansard of  1 October, page 1598. 
For the information of honourable members I present an Agreement establishing the Association of Iron Ore Exporting Countries together with a statement by me relating to that Agreement. 
Leader of the House whether he will move that the paper be noted. 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper.  Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
I think this matter arises out of a statement which the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  made the night before he left to go overseas, following the speech which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made on behalf of the Opposition when replying to the Budget. In that speech, the Leader of the Opposition made certain extravagant calculations about what he proposed to do and what the Government was proposing to do. My colleague, the Treasurer, who in all courtesy had listened to the Leader of the Opposition, made a statement before he left for overseas. The Treasury prepared an analysis of the contents of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition and of the Budget Speech by the Treasurer. That matter came up in this House the next day. From memory, I think it was about 17 or 18 August. 
As usual, those prescient gentlemen of the Press who write under their own names and get hold of documents dealt with this matter. I would submit with all respect that I do not know what the document is that is supposed to have been obtained. I invite honourable members to look at the reply which I gave, because I was then the Acting Treasurer, either to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  or the Leader of the Opposition. I am not quite sure to whom I gave the reply. I virtually quoted the whole of that document as far back as August. I would suggest that those who are trying to make some great capital out of the document- I do not know how many copies of it exist- are trying to reflect upon the integrity of the Cabinet since that time. This seems to me to be, shall I say, a rather curious exercise, but not uncircumstantial in the light of what is now being attempted. I would suggest to honourable members that if  Mr Oakes  or whoever the person is produces the document that he now claims has been leaked and if honourable members look at what was written into  Hansard  on about the day after the Leader of the Oppositin made his statement they will find very little differences between what was read into  Hansard  and what now appears to be the document leaked 2 months later. I think this demonstrates how up-to-date the Press of Australia is. 
I table the protocols for the further extension of the International Wheat Agreement 1971, together with a ministerial statement. 
I declare that the Loan Bill 1975 (No. 2) is an urgent Bill. 
I move: 
That the allotment of time in connection with the Bill be as follows: 
For the second reading, until 8. 1 5 p.m. this day. 
For the Committee stage, until 8.25 p.m. this day. 
For the remaining stages, until 8.35 p.m. this day. 
This Bill is being re-presented because it is part of the financial program of the Government. The Bill authorises the raising and expending of moneys for defence purposes and as such it can originate only in the House of Representatives and may not be amended by the Senate. I hope in speaking later on this Bill to indicate the reasons if they are thought through they will be seen to be correct why sensible usage in 1975 would suggest that the section in the Constitution which states that the Senate may not amend a money Bill can be sensibly interpreted only to mean also that the Senate may not reject such a Bill. I hope to indicate in some detail the sort of consequences that can follow from the Senate's continuing to take the stand that it is taking, a stand which in 1975 is contrary to common sense and to accepted conventions. It is a course that if continued in can lead only to economic and social chaos. I repeat that the Government stands firm upon the principle that governments are made and unmade only in one place, that is, when they lose the confidence of the House of Representatives. 
Despite the sorts of authorities that can be arrayed in support of the argument that the Senate still has the right to reject money Bills I suggest that if anybody with sense I am not too sure I would apply that remark to the interjector thinks the implications through he can only believe that in this day and age the section in question means that the Bills cannot originate in the Senate, cannot be amended in the Senate and, sensibly, cannot be rejected by the Senate. Because the Party that has the numbers in the Senate does not have the numbers and cannot carry the day here, it is carrying it in the other place. At the moment it is doing so with at least one bodgie vote. 
It is absurd to suggest that the Senate is as democratic as is this House. The Senate is supposed to be a House of Review. The Senate is supposed to be a State's House. The Opposition in the Senate, on a political basis only, is nakedly using its numbers to get its way numbers that it does not have in this chamber. What the Opposition cannot do in this place it gets done, with the same political line-up, in another place. The Senate is destroying any sort of validity it may claim to have as representing the States or being a House of Review. I hope to enlarge on these arguments and to give some examples of the dreadful consequences that can follow from this action when I speak at the second reading stage. We have made the Bill an urgent measure because it was debated before at great length in this House and also in another place. I do not think there is any need to repeat in great detail the reason for the legislation. I shall briefly outline it when I make my second reading speech. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I re-present to the House the Loan Bill 1975. As with the Appropriation Bills which the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  reintroduced today, the Loan Bill is being re-presented in precisely the same form as it was passed by the House some 8 weeks ago on 27 August. Nevertheless, I think that I should outline briefly for the information of honourable members the purposes and nature of this Bill. 
In the very first sentence of the Treasurer 's second reading speech on 20 August, he pointed out that the Bill is a machinery measure. It is a means of meeting the requirements of the three fund accounting systems operated by Australian governments virtually since Federation under the provisions of the Audit Act. Put simply, there will be, in the absence of a Loan Act or some similar piece of legislation, a prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. That Consolidated Revenue deficit, which is part of the overall Budget deficit, must be funded in one way or another. The Loan Bill aims to allow this to be done by permitting the transfer of part of our defence expenditures from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the Loan Fund. It would authorise borrowings to finance the defence expenditure so transferred. There is nothing mysterious, or sinister, or reprehensible, to use that famous word, in this machinery process. Loan Acts including the Act proposed by this Bill, do not authorise any expenditures over and above those authorised in Appropriation Acts passed by the Parliament. They simply reallocate approved defence expenditures between the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the Loan Fund. 
In drafting Loan Bills, it is long established usage followed by both this Government and previous Liberal-Country Party governments that defence expenditures are chosen to be transferred to and financed from the Loan Fund. As is known, borrowings for defence purposes are specifically exempted from the provisions of the financial agreement relating to control by the Australian Loan Council. The view has been taken, rightly in the Government's estimation, that Loan Council involvement in the detailed financing arrangements of the Australian Government Budget should not be any greater than necessary. Loan Acts are far from a new development. They have for very many years been used by successive governments as the traditional and simplest method of completing the financing of a deficit which extends over the end of the financial year. 
In the last 10 years of Liberal-Country Party Government Loan Acts were foreshadowed in Budget Speeches and statements no fewer than 8 times, and no less than 9 Loan Acts were passed by the Parliament. Given the mechanical, indeed virtually accounting, nature of the Bill, it is difficult to understand why it has provoked so much interest and attention by the Opposition parties. The Bill was first introduced into this House on 20 August, debated on 27 August and passed the same day. The day before, on 26 August, however, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  announced to the Press that the Opposition would be deferring passage of the Bill in the Senate. Since then the Bill has been debated on 7 separate occasions between 28 August and 15 October in the Senate. Three separate series of questions leading to the provision, by the Treasurer and some of his colleagues, of 36 detailed answers have appeared. With the Treasurer's approval Treasury officials have met Opposition senators to explain further the reasons for the Bill. Yet we find, even after 8 weeks and a flow of information not previously seen in respect of any other Loan Bill, that the Opposition in the Senate has persisted in deferring the Bill. Similar legislation in 1971 with the same type of clause limiting the amount authorised to be transferred, introduced by the then Liberal-Country Party Government, took, for example, only a matter of days to pass through all stages in both Houses. 
The information provided on most aspects of this Bill has already been so extensive that I feel little would be achieved by going again over all of the ground so far traversed. One aspect, however, needs to be covered to make it clear to the House why the Bill is being re-introduced now.  (Quorum formed)  The Opposition has argued to the effect that this Bill would permit unlimited borrowing. Nothing could be further from the truth. Indeed anyone reading the Bill properly should know that the form of limitations used in the Bill now before the House were first used in 1968 and similar limitation clauses were used again in 1970 and 1971. There is no basis on which it could be implied now that there is something sinister about these clauses. However, since they are apparently not understood, I will explain in terms as simple as possible. Even though clause 3 does not state a specific amount, there are two very important limitations upon the amount which can be borrowed and utilised under the Bill when it is enacted. First, the borrowing authority is limited to the extent of the anticipated deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Secondly, and more importantly in the current context, the amounts borrowed can be utilised only to finance Defence expenditures incurred after the passage of the Bill into law. Such Defence expenditures must, at the same time, have been approved by Parliament under other Acts which are mentioned in the Bill or expressed by Parliament to be subject to the Loan Act. Once Defence expenditure has already been charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund, this Bill will not authorise its subsequent transfer to Loan Fund. The delay in its passage must, therefore, substantially affect the scope for this necessary piece of accounting. A lot of damage has been done by delay. 
Out of a potential total of $1,7 11m expenditure under the heading 'Department of Defence' close to $500m has been charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund already and that amount, of course, increases as the days go by. It may be that the notion that delaying this measure will somehow hasten the point at which the Government runs out of money is still abroad. There is no question of the Government running out of money. What the Loan Bill is, and Loans Acts have always been designed to do, is to provide authority to complete the financing of a prospective deficit over the financial year as a whole. Refusal to pass the Loan Bill does not, of itself, therefore, prevent any expenditures being made. Obviously, however, the smaller any recourse to such alternatives has to be, the less unorthodox and confusing would be the measures then forced on the Government. Purely from a legislative point of view, the delays occasioned on the passage of this Bill in the Senate could result in a requirement for an amendment to be made to it before it completes its passage through the Parliament. It simply means that some other less appropriate way of financing the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit will be forced upon the Government at some future date. The delay which has so far taken place with this machinery Bill may already have pushed us to the stage where further legislation may be required to clear the Consolidated Revenue Fund deficit at the end of the year. The Bill was drafted on the assumption that it would receive royal assent before Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and would need to be amended to be appropriate if Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) were to be getting royal assent first. To sum up, when the Bill was first introduced, it was an urgent machinery measure. It remains so. 
I indicate that this Bill now re-presented is part of what ought to be regarded as an historic battle for the assertion of the rights of this House. It is a pity to me that those issues are not seen in this light. I take the opportunity now to clarify something that I said in the course of a television interview telecast last Sunday evening. I was asked by  Mr Alan  Reid, the questioner: 
As a hypothetical case, if both sides stay firm, how is the deadlock resolved? 
I replied:  ' I think that is a difficult thing'. 
I would stress again that it is a difficult thing. The situation can be resolved by calling off the numbers in the Senate. It is not going to be resolved by this House and the Labor Government backing down on what it believes are its fundamental rights. I went on to say:  ' In my view what is happening is unconstitutional '. 
I believe that what is happening is unconstitutional. I went on to say:  'Now if it continues, there certainly have got to be unconstitutional things done to stop the system from breaking down'. 
Upon reflection now, instead of the word 'unconstitutional' I should have used words like 'unusual things', 'unconventional things' or 'unprecedented things'. 
I heard a very virtuous speech last night or yesterday afternoon and I was rather surprised at the deliverer of it who paid no attention whatever to the constitutional issue, and he ought to be an authority on the constitutional issue. He chose to say that he was taking the action he was taking because the Government was dishonest, beneath contempt and so on. I simply ask those who have not thought through what the consequences of refusal of Supply are to do so. Despite all the assurances from  Sir Robert  Menzies today, I still believe that his more genuine opinion was in the letter that the Prime Minister read out here the other day, but that in an attempt to save his Party from doing something foolish he came out, I guess, reckoning the damage was beyond repair. I should like to cite the sort of things that can happen in the event of Supply being refused. I speak about my own Department of Overseas Trade. I will not cite the actual examples or give the names of firms and so on. We have legitimately engaged people to provide a consultancy service for us. They are honestly engaged, but until Supply is passed they cannot legally be paid. Is there something unconstitutional already? Surely this applies to the whole of the Public Service. Permanent employees cannot be sacked but cannot be paid. This is one of the consequences of a refusal of 
Supply, the sort of thing that honourable members opposite have not thought through. 
For goodness sake,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  close him down. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act 1949-1975 I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority for the year ended 30 June 1975, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
One thing to the credit of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is that he sticks to his story no matter how threadbare it is. What this House is asserting - 
I will tell the honourable member about bending the law in a moment. This House is asserting the historical and sensible rights of this House as far as money Bills are concerned. The Senate has referred back to this House a Bill which it cannot originate and cannot amend. It asserts I intend to argue this in some detail in a moment that it can reject such a Bill. It has not rejected the Bill, but what it has the impertinence to say is that this House, the House of Representatives, should be dissolved. The House of Representatives can be dissolved only if the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  asks for its dissolution. A dissolution should occur only if the Prime Minister so decides or if the Government is defeated on the floor of the House. This has not happened and will not happen. This House should ponder the seriousness of the situation. I am getting tired of hearing the words 'dishonoured', 'dishonest' and 'reprehensible' when there is no proof of dishonesty except about the sorts of things that of course are political small change. 
There was no leak from the Budget. 
The honourable member is another of the loud mouths who has a lot to learn yet. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  talked about bending the Constitution. I would like the honourable member to answer or to ponder this sort of question: What has to bend when a person properly employed cannot be paid? What has to bend when no progress payments can be made on a contract honourably and properly entered into? What happens when we can pay a pension legally but do not have the mechanism to do so? Honourable members opposite ought to consider the consequences when they contemplate this sort of action. It is the consequences that are important and it is the consequences of this action, if persisted in, that can be disastrous to the economy of this country. 
I happen to have the administration of the Department of Overseas Trade and overseas trade is highly significant for this Government and particularly for those clackers who sit opposite and call themselves country people and who say they represent the people of the country. At the moment they are grossly misrepresenting the people they claim to be helping. This country has about $17 billion worth of international trade.  (Quorum formed)  I was trying to point out the consequences of this action. I think that sometimes the highest to which some people will ever rise is the ability to call a quorum when a Government supporter is speaking. I suggest that that is about the level of the approach of honourable members opposite to these serious problems. 
It is no compliment to this House when one side is prepared to be silent when its rights are being invaded. I submit that this is what the question is. If a Senate now can do what honourable members opposite are trying to make a Senate do, any other Senate will get away with it forever after. But no Senate will ever dare do this again if the present Senate's attitude fails- and it should fail. There is only one way in which this constitutional problem can be resolved, and that is by the Senate being sensible. I submit that in the light of what governments have to do in 1 975, in the light of any commonsense, and in the light of any convention, when it is said that a Bill may not originate and that it may not be amended, in the Senate, it can mean only that the Bill cannot be rejected by the Senate. 
Despite what honourable members opposite think, we are not talking about the whole of the Budget in regard to appropriation. The Budget appropriates approximately $22 billion, only $9 billion of which is incorporated in these 2 appropriation measures. The other $13 billion can be appropriated. The taxation that is required to pay for the services of the Government can still be collected. But what honourable members opposite are doing in their crass stupidity is not allowing the things that are legally possible to be done. Of the $9 billion approximately $2 billion is to pay the wages of the public servants of this country- people who cannot be dismissed, people who have permanency of employment. Who are to carry out the processes of government? As an example, what will happen to trade commissioners stranded in 47 countries around the world? They are legally employed but cannot be paid because of this stupid action. These are the consequences that ought to be looked at. 
Honourable members opposite can argue themselves black in the face forever, with one side asserting that because the Constitution does not say 'reject', therefore it can reject and another side saying that common sense can mean only that the Bills cannot be rejected. What I am trying to get honourable members opposite to think through is the consequences of the action that they are contemplating. They cannot get away from the consequences of action. The consequences of that action are that people who cannot be sacked cannot be paid. Contracts that have been entered into cannot be fulfilled. If honourable members opposite look sensibly at Budget documents they will find that probably 90 per cent of what is contained in a Budget is not for new initiatives, but for the carrying on of old initiatives. 
If honourable members had any sense they would have rejected the Budget before. It is stupid to reject the Budget now and to believe that that will not have consequences disastrous to things that have already been approved. The amount of new initiatives in a Budget is small. This again is the reason why things should be thought through logically. I know that some people are not too capable of logical thinking. But at least, unpleasant and difficult as it may be, Opposition members are here to do that occasionally. 
I suggest that this is the question that has not been asked: What happens when we have a wages bill for $2 billion which the Opposition will not let be paid? What is the effect on social service payments, the legislation in respect of which the Opposition let through the House one night last week so that its actions would not be reprehensible in the eyes of pensioners? How are those pensioners to be paid? How will the computers continue to operate? How will the stamps that the letters require and the other necessary aspects to enable those pensioners to be paid be dealt with? Will the Red Cross distribute the pensions in the same way as the Meals on Wheels service is provided? These pension payments in one form or another go to approximately 2 million people. Opposition members do not know because they have not thought this matter through. 
I turn to another aspect. Why does somebody on the other side of the House not get up and assert what the fundamental rights of this House are? Governments are made and unmade only in this House of the Parliament. We could have as few as 10 members in the Senate and have 75 members in this House and we would still be the Government. The Government is made and unmade here. The Prime Minister is the leader of the Party that gets the most seats in the election for the House of Representatives. Are honourable members opposite prepared to throw that principle overboard on the vote of one in the Senate? It is not even an honest vote. I called it a 'bodgie' vote here the other night. If the constitutional travesty had not been perpetrated in Queensland by appointing to a Labor seat a nonLabor man, the Opposition could not have done what it is doing now. The Opposition would have had to face up to rejection of the Budget or not. It is not courageous enough to do it. It is trying to drag this matter on and on. The longer it goes the more dire the consequences are likely to be. 
Why do members of the Opposition not acknowledge that they have been wrong, change their attitude, and let there be a free vote in the other place? Let there be an assertion that the drawing up of the Budget and the passing of the Budget ought to be the right of only this House. As I said here the other day, what we ought to have in Australia in 1975 is what was written into the British system in 191 1- that is, that an Upper House can only sniff at a money Bill and if it did not pass that Bill it would not matter. But when it is not passed, is deferred or rejected, all that that achieves is to cause confusion and disarray and to bring into contempt the type of system which honourable members opposite assert that they support. 
One of my first experiences in Parliament was in the State Parliament of Victoria where the best Government that that State had had for years was forced out by a character,  Sir Frank  Clark, the  Chairman  of the National Bank. We called him  'Sir Bank  Clark'. He used the Victorian Parliament for a test on the bank nationalisation legislation which was before this House. What sort of travesty can be perpetrated if one has the numbers? In the name of political expediency, Opposition members are prepared to subvert the very constitutional framework that they claim to be seeking to preserve. I suggest that that is what the motion before the House today is all about. The motion seeks the assertion of the rights of this House. It is the determination as to who should govern Australia. It is the Government which has the numbers in this House. It is shameful that not one honourable member on the opposite side is prepared to vote with those on this side in that assertion. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. 
1 ) There have been no steps taken so far to establish a Trade Commissioner's Office in the Soviet Far East. However, the Trade Commissioner in Moscow visits the Soviet Far East from time to time to foster contact with regional commercial bodies and local enterprises and to encourage greater consciousness of Australia's ability to supply many industrial and consumer requirements of the area. 
I believe that the Soviet Far East has sound trade development potential based on planned mining, industrial, transport and urban projects but at the present time most of the economic activity in the area continues to be controlled by Moscow-based ministries and foreign trade organisations and the main emphasis of our approach to the market is directed through these bodies. Thus it is considered that the Moscow Trade Commissioner's Office can adequately service this market at present. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
to (4) See the answer provided by the Minister representing the Minister for the Media on 4 December, 1974 (Hansard, page 4590). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
By this Bill Parliament is being asked to reestablish the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. The Bill is different in a number of respects from that which the Parliament last saw in the Joint Sitting in August 1974. I shall briefly refer to these changes later. The purpose of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority has been outlined to the House on a number of occasions in the past- when the Bill was introduced for the first time on 4 December 1973; for the second time on 8 April 1974; for the third time on 11 July 1974 and for the fourth time to the Joint Sitting of both Houses of the Parliament on 7 August 1 974 when it was passed. 
Four State governments- New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Western Australiachallenged the Act in the High Court of Australia and on 24 June 1975 the High Court of Australia by majority decision declared that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 was not a valid law of the Commonwealth in that its passage through the Houses of Parliament did not meet the procedural requirements of section 57 of the Constitution. 
During the 10, months of its existence the Petroleum and Mineral Authority, despite the difficulties of being under High Court challenge, established an important and necessary role in petroleum and minerals development. It created a small and highly flexible professional organisation, supported by professional consultants of high standing, and achieved sound working relationships with industry. A significant number of companies, including some foreign companies, large and small, of their own volition invited the participation of the Authority in their ventures. It operated in the same manner as the industry and used normal business criteria in its decision making. It pursued the Government's policy of Australian ownership and control. In so doing it made available to the industry the savings from the repealed provisions of sections 77c, 77d and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act and from the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959-1972. It did not compete with the Australian industry. It gave the lie to the label of 'bogeyman' which the Opposition had sought to bestow upon it. 
The Authority acquired interests in the oil and gas reserves of the Cooper Basin so important to Sydney and Adelaide and in so doing increased Australian ownership of the commercial hydrocarbon reserves in the South Australian areas of the Basin from 37 per cent to 53 per cent. The Authority's decision to participate in the Wambo Colliery, near Warkworth via Singleton, New South Wales, replaced a proposed foreign interest in this valuable coal reserve. Its commitment to Mareeba Mining NL, a small exploration company operating in North Queensland, has given that company the opportunity of benefiting from the results of its discovery of a small high grade copper deposit which it would otherwise have lost. The Authority engaged in a coal exploration program in New South Wales, designed specifically to increase our knowledge of coal reserves in that State. Arrangements were in hand to extend that program to Queensland and to other States. The Authority had under study the procedures and strategy for off-shore petroleum exploration and development. 
During the last weeks of the Authority's existence it took decisions to assist a number of other companies. These involved oil and gas exploration in the Northern Territory, coal mining in New South Wales, mineral exploration in Western Australia and gold and antimony production in Western Australia. At the time of the High Court's decision the Authority had under consideration some 69 proposals for petroleum and mineral development, large and small, covering all States and the Northern Territory. Past debates on this proposal have emphasised the urgency of our energy position, the need to concentrate upon the discovery of additional reserves of petroleum, particularly oil, and of coal too, and to develop our knowledge of alternative sources of energy such as conversion of coal to oil and gas. The Government does not despair of the discovery of additional substantial reserves of oil and gas in commercial locations but our best prospects are off-shore and, given victory by the Government in the action brought by the States over our Seas and Submerged Lands Act, we shall have a vast job managing the off-shore resources of the nation. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority will play a substantial role in these activities. That is not to say the Authority will be undertaking itself the vastly expensive and highly technical task of exploring in deep water off-shore. Rather we would expect that, under appropriate joint venture arrangements with the Authority, international operators of known technical ability and financial capacity will make that contribution. Off-shore and on-shore the development of our energy and our other mineral resources is not just a matter for government agencies. The discovery of the nation's petroleum and mineral resources and their subsequent development has always been, and must always be, a partnership between governments and industry. In Australia today we have the individual prospectors, the small exploration groups and mining companies, the large mineral companies, including foreign companies who have by their enterprise and endeavour in exploration created the opportunities for Australia's mineral development. To some extent, too, government agencies such as the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Joint Coal Board join in the search. No one segment of the group is necessarily more successful than the other. Both individual prospectors and companies have found world ranking mineral deposits. 
But let us not forget the framework of institutions which support them- the governmental agencies, at State and Federal levels, which put together the basic information on which search and discovery are founded. Geology, structure, land forms, regional mapping and the other documentation and research data essential to their work are the products of the mines departments and the geological surveys of the States and the Northern Territory, the Bureau of Mineral Resources, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Division of National Mapping. Government agencies have also been instrumental in the identification of mineral fields. For development of mineral deposits there is necessarily today a requirement for other institutions. Given the complexity and cost of mineral development, very few projects are financed right through to production by a single mining company or by any one financial group. Further partnerships are required, matching finance, both Australian and overseas, with the requirements of mineral development. In Australia where many of our largest financial institutions did not initially enter the field a previous government added to the sources of finance for downstream development by creating the Australian Industry Development Corporation and we have expanded the scope and strengthened the financial muscle of that Corporation. The area of its interest is later stage development, at production stages and further growth and expansion of facilities. But is this sufficient? This Government believes it is not. 
The Government has studied the statement published a week or so ago by the Opposition parties on foreign investment policy. That statement adopts the Government's policy of maximum control and ownership of our natural resources. It proposes to require of foreign interests investing in oil, natural gas and mineral development and production an Australian equity of not less than 50 per cent of the proposed venture though it is not clear to the Government whether this extends into the exploration for and the initial development of our natural resources. The statement acknowledges the inability of the Australian capital market to finance the policy espoused in that statement. It says, for example, that an 'offer' of Australian equity 'may apply to the starting point of the project or to a specified future date by which the foreign capital would be scaled down to a level of not more than 49 per cent'. It refers to the unavailability of Australian capital not preventing a project 'considered by the Government to be in the national interest from proceeding without delay'. It proposes to attempt to fill the gap by up-grading 'the access of Australian corporations to finance, research and management techniques'. The Opposition parties propose to 'review the tax structure and direct Government instrumentalities to achieve these policy objectives'. 
That policy, the core of which is not dissimiliar to our own, contains, by its acknowledgement that our private resources are insufficient, the seeds of its own failure. If maximum Australian ownership and control of mineral development in this country is worth its place as a fundamental plank of our administration then the Governments of the country should be prepared to provide the necessary financial backing. The Aus.tralianisation of our mineral development is not just a matter of pride or empty rhetoric. It is the heart and soul of our country and our right and title to the great resources we possess. We are prepared to guarantee the viability of our policy by creating an instrument available to assist private industry large and small to undertake the development of our mineral resources and to play a part for the people in achieving maximum Australian ownership and control. That instrument would normally operate in conjunction with private operating concerns both local and foreign. Its interest in any development would not necessarily be permanent. Its prime function would be to make a contribution to any particular mineral development when that contribution was needed to get the development to the point where the financial institutions of the country, including the AIDC, might be able to take it on. These judgments would, of course, be a matter not only for the Authority, but for its partners too. The Authority will play a significant role in the management of our off-shore resources and there its interests will naturally be permanent. 
These are our objectives. We do not seek to compete with Australian industry. We do not seek to banish foreign companies. We do not seek to dominate mineral development. We seek to provide an instrument to guarantee the success of our policy of maximum Australian ownership and control of our mineral development. We seek partnership with the industry including foreign companies with the expertise and the will to invest in Australia. 
The Bill before the House amends that provision of the original Bill relating to the power of the Authority to acquire interests in mining undertakings, and deletes, inter alia, those provisions relating to the declaration of an area to be a petroleum exploration area or a mineral exploration area, the provision for losses suffered by the Authority in providing overseas aid to be reimbursed by the Australian Government, and the power to enter land under warrant of a justice of the peace and other provisions related thereto. These were the provisions which caused most of the criticisms by the Opposition, by the State governments of similar political complexions, and by the responsible sectors of the petroleum and mineral industries. 
The detailed amendments to the previous legislation which are accordingly reflected in the 
Bill now before the House are: The deletion of the wording in sub-clause 12 ( 1) (o) 'upon such terms as the Authority thinks fit' and insertion of the words 'by agreement'; and also the deletion of clauses 13, 14, 39, 43, 44, 46, 48 and 50 and sub-clause 15 (2); together with variations to the previous legislation consequent upon these deletions. There are also several other variations to reflect changes in drafting procedures and style since the previous Bill was initially drafted, including reference to the Remuneration Tribunal. We have also made the terms and conditions of employment of the Authority subject to the approval of the Public Service Board. 
Maximum Australian control and ownership of our natural resources and associated industries is now common ground between us. There are differences in our approaches. One of the principal differences is whether the private resources of the nation are sufficient to support that policy. The Government believes that this is not a realistic appraisal of our financial resources, and it would be wrong to assume that circumstances might change which would alter that belief. 
We stand by our belief in the fundamental rights of the Australian people and we are prepared to guarantee these rights by the creation of a Government vehicle to support our policy. I remind this House that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act 1973 was declared invalid on procedural grounds. That legislation was passed by the Parliament in a Joint Sitting after exhaustive debates on a number of occasions by both Houses. It had the support of the people expressed on 2 occasions and on the last occasion as one of the 6 Bills resulting in the double dissolution. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
-I think it is well established that North Korea does face serious balance of payments problems. There have been one or two instances of difficulties involving payment to Australian exporters. Those matters have been taken up within my Department in an endeavour to secure a satisfactory solution. Nevertheless the balance of payments situation is acute and, I believe, deteriorating in North Korea. 
Pursuant to section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1973 I present the annual report of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The total amount expended since 24 June 1975, up to close of business on 10 October 1975, by the Department of Minerals and Energy on the activities of the former Petroleum and Minerals Authority is $2,407,069.42. 
In regard to such expenditure, what is the amount, date, payee and object of each payment and to what Budget head was it charged. 
Details of the $2,407,069.42 expended by the Department of Minerals and Energy are shown in the following schedule. 

 - Mr Speaker, I want to take the opportunity to correct a gross mis-statement that occurred in today's issue of the  Australian Financial Review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The only item of canned fruit in Schedule A, which lists all the items to which the free trade provisions of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement apply, is canned prunes. 
Imports of canned fruit into New Zealand from all countries are subject to import duties (except canned prunes from Australia) and import licensing. Australian canned fruit is subject to lower rates of import duty than are applied to canned fruit from most other countries. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Council for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
I want to say to begin with that this issue today is a constitutional issue of great importance. It is about who has the right to govern in this country. It is about the rights of another place with respect to this House in what are called financial matters. It was said earlier this morning that the Queen, the House of Representatives and the Senate are what constitute the Parliament as a functioning body. What needs to be spelt out is that the Queen's representative in Australia, the GovernorGeneral, does not act on his own initiative but acts on the advice of his Ministers. Who the Ministers are is conditioned by who has the majority in the House of Representatives. I would hope that everybody, in this House at least, would assert that as a fundamental ground rule of the Australian parliamentary system. 
The position of the Senate is spelt out in section 53 of the Constitution which deals with money Bills. This section provides that money Bills can originate only in this House and may not be amended by the Senate. It further provides that the Senate may make requests which the House of Representatives may or may not take into account. Section 53 then provides that in all other law making provisions the Senate has equal power with the House of Representatives. But I think it must be affirmed that the Senate does not have equal power with the House of Representatives as far as money matters are concerned. Yet what the Senate is purporting to do now would give the Senate in respect of money Bills not a less than equal power with the House of Representatives but a greater power which was never intended to be the situation. 
Many things have been said during the course of the debate. We have heard corruption, dishonesty and other emotive words. I repeat again that the issue is not about the unholy relic, Khemlani; it is not about whether  Mr Hayden  said something to  Mr Hawke  which  Mr Hawke  has not repeated to anyone else; it is not about ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. The issue is the power of this House and its ability to govern in a democratic system. I am appalled that not a single member of either the Liberal Party or the National Country Party of Australia in this 
House is prepared to defend the rights, the powers and the purposes of this House as against the other place. They have been recreant in regard to responsibility. I think they are recreant in terms of conventions and common sense as far as the conduct of government in Australia is concerned. There was some mention earlier this morning of the Westminster system. There is no other place that claims to adopt the Westminster traditions where the Upper House could do with a money Bill what the Senate is now asserting it can do. The paramountcy of this House in respect of finance has long been acknowledged. Bills must start here, they cannot be amended in the Senate, and sensibly they cannot be rejected by the Senate. Let us look at the logic - 
Of course it is rubbish to the honourable member because all he can judge is rubbish. He is not prepared to sit down as anybody should and look at the consequences of the Opposition's actions. The consequences of the action are that those who claim to be defenders of the Constitution in fact are becoming its sub.verters. Because the Budget is presented as a document in its entirety it is no longer credible that a Senate should endeavour to do with financial measures what it is attempting to do on this occasion. The Appropriation Bills provide for an expenditure, in aggregate, of $22 billion. Only $9 billion out of that $22 billion is in the Bills that are under dispute. The other $13 billion of expenditure can go on. Therefore provision is made for the payment of pensions but not for the administrative mechanism to pay those pensions. The other day the Senate passed taxation measures which means that taxes are being collected but cannot be appropriated. 
What sort of nonsense- and I believe it is nonsenseis it to assert as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is trying to assert that somehow the Senate instead of being a States' House or a House of review is being elevated into a position of some kind of conscience of the community. Surely the Opposition can hardly honestly use the term 'conscience' when we know how its numbers in the Senate have been obtained. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who is about to take part in this debate said it was a ' tainted Senate '-there is a vote being exercised one way that ought properly to be exercised the other way. It is only because of that that the Senate has been able to attach this presumptuous condition that it will do only what it ought to do- that is, pass Supply- if the Government firstly has a House of Representatives election. To condone that sort of conduct, of course, is to turn the Senate into a monster. The Senate would be exceeding the powers that properly are provided for it. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has asserted, governments are made and unmade only in the House of Representatives. What should happen, for argument's sake, if someone else were to come here in a few minutes and say he was now the Prime Minister of this country. He would be voted out immediately in this House. This is the test of constitutionality. 
I must say that I am getting a little sick of the unctuous way in which everything that can be done to frustrate the proper working of this House is being done in the name of something called 'defending the Constitution'. As I say, it is easy to bring up relics- unholy relics like Khemlani- and say that one's reason for doing something is this or something else. The paramount issue is the fundamental supremacy of the House of Representatives. Nobody should interfere with that supremacy. This supremacy is traditional and there are very good reasons why that tradition should be continued. In respect of financial measures the Senate cannot say that it likes the Budget as a whole but it does not like a certain section and it will pass one section but not another. The Senate cannot do that; it cannot amend. Therefore when it chooses to reject the Budget it ought to have a look at what are the consequences of that rejection. The consequences of that rejection are that people who are legally employed, whose services cannot be terminated, because the public servants are permanent, nevertheless cannot be paid. 
When the Opposition brings that situation to be, where does the unconstitutionality or the illegality begin and where does the process end? A budget is not just a scheme of measures dealing only with the current year. It is the continuance of measures from the past; it is new measures; it is measures that are supposed to have a future. The Opposition has passed the necessary taxes to service the purposes but it is prepared to deny the payment of salaries and supplies of goods and services in the name of something that is irrevelant and wrong. I believe that this House must assert what its fundamental role is. The Queen-in-Council has certain powers, but they are not autocratic. Those powers should be exercised upon the advice of the Governor-General of the day. There have been occasions, unfortunately, in British constitutional history when Governors-General have sought to act beyong their power. That happened in Canada 70 or 80 years ago. The GovernorGeneral chose to appoint somebody else to be 
Prime Minister, even though he did not have the numbers in the Parliament. When the issue was put to the people, the people voted against the nominee of the Governor-General. 
All parts of our Constitution have purposes and precedents, and they all ought to be interpreted with commonsense. A document is not only letters or words; a constitution has a spirit, and a constitution works only with conventions plus commonsense. Whether conventions put flexibility into a system which otherwise would be too rigid or whatever else they may do, a constitution works the better because of them. I think this House has to look very systematically at what is being done here today. As I say, it disappoints me that nobody in the Liberal Party or the National Country Party of Australia has been prepared to assert the powers and purposes of this House as against another place. 
The Opposition does not have the numbers in the House of Representatives. It has illicitly got them in the Senate. It cravenly says: 'We will only do in the Senate what we ought to do if you first have a House of Representatives election'. That sort of thing is a travesty upon the working of a constitution. It brings the Constitution into disrepute. At the moment we have a crisis over Supply that should legitimately be granted. I have said this before: Had the Australian Constitution been written in 1912 instead of in 1901, it would have had enshrined therein that the Senate could not reject a money Bill. That is the commonsense of the whole apparatus if the matter is thought through. The Constitution says that a money Bill cannot originate in the Senate and that the Senate cannot amend such a Bill. Yet, because it does not have the word 'reject' the Opposition is prepared to write that in by implication. To do so is to bring the fabric of government- democratic government, popular government, responsible government- into disrepute and disarray. The ills that are attendant should be sheeted home to those who are responsible that is, those who are acting in the Senate in defiance of proper powers and for sheer political expediency. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 'Australian Trading News'. 
'Australian Trading News' is a periodical distributed by Australian Trade Commissioners for the promotion of Australian products in overseas markets. It consists of information on products available for export from individual Australian manufacturers and plays a significant role in introducing new Australian products to overseas markets. 'Australian Trading News' is totally distributed overseas. 
Spanish, Japanese, Dutch, French, Italian, Swedish, Thai, Arabic, Indonesian, Farsi, German, Portuguese. 
Spanish (1962), Japanese (1963), Dutch (1964), French (1965), Italian (1965), Swedish (1966), Thai (1966), Arabic (1968), Indonesian (1970), Farsi (1975), German ( 1 975), Portuguese ( 1975 ). 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Fortunes change, and yours may well change too. Firstly, I congratulate the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  on their maiden speeches. I might say that during the election campaign I went to and worked in the electorates of both of them to see that they did not get here but apparently my efforts were not of any avail. Secondly,  Sir, I  congratulate you upon your elevation to the distinguished position of  Speaker  of the House. I find it very difficult to distinguish people with beards, but I must say that under your wig you bear a remarkable resemblance physically to one of your predecessors,  Sir William  Aston. 
Perhaps it is clothes that make the man. Today I want to devote the major part of my time to a consideration of the events that took place on 11 November 1975 and the time leading up to that date. I make 2 categorical assertions. The first one is that it is my belief that for the parliamentary system to be a workable institution no Senate should ever dare again to refuse supply to a government that has the numbers in the House of Representatives. I believe that is fundamental to the sensible carrying out of parliamentary government in Australia. During the crisis I made one or two speeches here round that theme in which I indicated that really it is nonsense for a government to be in a situation of having permanent public servants, legally employed, whom it cannot sack but because of a failure to get a piece of legislation through, not being able to pay them. Similarly, it is nonsense to have legislation sanctioning the payment of pensions of a couple of billion dollars or more a year and to have a government which, until it got the Appropriation Bill through, could not legally pay the administrators of the payment of those pensions. 
This House has to think through its relationships with the other place. I must say that I was grieved somewhat by the cavalier fashion in which the previous House of Representatives was prepared to vacate what I think are its historic rights because of a chance difference in the political constitution of the upper House as against the lower. It seems that a lot of nonsense is being talked in this country about the Senate being equal with the House of Representatives. The Senate is not, and cannot be, equal with the House of Representatives. The principal reason is that this House must be the House that is responsible for the financial affairs of the nation. I do not think enough attention was paid to the illogicality of endeavouring to fail to pass part only of the financial commitments of the former Government. The Budget, when it was brought down, provided for expenditure in the region of $22,000m, and the Appropriation Bills that were rejected did not cover half of that amount. The Government could collect taxes but could not apply the taxes to the purposes for which they were intended. I believe that when the Senate carries out, or proposes to carry out, a certain course of action it should pay attention to the consequences of that action. The consequences of the Senate's refusing to grant supply are the bringing into paralysis of the whole machine of government. That is a fundamental consideration. 
The second matter I categorically assert is that I believe the Governor-General was wrong in the action he took to dismiss the Whitlam Government. I wonder how in the future constitutional usage and practice will be taught in Australia after what happened on 1 1 November. I happen to have been brought up as a student in political science. In those days we had the learned text of Bagehot's  English Constitution.  The most modern interpreter of the working of the British Constitutionthe Australian system is modelled on the British system- is one called Ivor Jennings. In his book, the third edition of  Cabinet Government,  on page 403 he says this about the British system: 
No Government has been dismissed by the Sovereign since 1783. 
This was the accepted view of things. Here again, I am rather surprised to hear it being asserted that somehow what the Governor-General did on 11 November has been vindicated by the results. I am not going to quibble with the result of the election on 13 December. The numbers are evidence enough of what the result of the election was. But I think one has to pay some attention to what the role of the GovernorGeneral is. In my view the Governor-General is not an absolute monarch. The GovernorGeneral is the Governor-General in Council- the Governor-General acting upon the advice of his Ministers and only upon the advice of his Ministers. Yesterday the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  read into Hansard the reply that was received by the former  Speaker, Mr Scholes,  from the Secretary to the Queen,  Mr Martin  Charteris. The Queen said this in her rather, if I may say, diplomatic letter: 
As we understand the situation here, the Australian Constitution firmly places the prerogative powers of the Crown in the hands of the Governor-General as the representative of the Queen of Australia. 
I think what is needed is an understanding as to what are the prerogative powers of the Crown, or in the case of Australia the prerogative powers of the Governor-General. I believe that if the Queen had been a little bit whimsical she might have put a footnote on the bottom of that letter saying: 'I could not do in London to  Mr Wilson  what  Sir John  Kerr did in Australia to  Mr Whitlam'. 
-I believe that this House has to defend its rights as a House. I do not think the honourable member has been here long enough yet to understand. Surely at times matters ought to be discussed objectively in this House. These sorts of events, fortunately, are not likely to happen again while the political constitution of the 2 Houses is the same, but at least we on the Labor Party side have an interest in the future conduct of events because when we are returned to power in this House the likelihood is that there could be almost equality politically in the other place. Governments in Australia are not decided by how many people there are in a particular party in the Senate; they are decided by how many people have been elected to particular Parties in the House of Representatives. As to all this nonsense about the powers of the Senate being the same as the powers of the House of Representatives, the powers of the Senate are the same in that no Bill can become law unless it is passed by both Houses. It is true also that a money Bill cannot originate in the Senate. The Constitution is quite specific. It says that a money Bill may not be amended by the Senate, but it does not say that it cannot be rejected. 
I tried to suggest early in my speech that common sense- surely common sense is an essential part of the operation of constitutional governmentwould say in the latter quarter of the twentieth century that Senates cannot reject money Bills either. I believe this other question of trying to maintain in Australia to a GovernorGeneral prerogative powers that were discarded in the workings of the British system 200 years ago needs serious and critical examination in this country. Maybe it could be examined by people outside the House as well as by people in it. The prerogative powers are not absolute powers. In fact, in Quick and Garran's famous book on the Constitution I think the authors observe that it was suggested that it ought to have said wherever the word 'Governor' appeared it meant 'Governor-in-Council'. Perhaps it would have been a good thing had that been done. There are not many places in the Constitution where the Governor has any powers as such, but again those powers, unless they are to be potential tyranny, surely are meant to be exercised in the sense of 'Governor-in-Council', not the Governor as a paramount chief or trying to take to himself in 1976 powers that were discarded by the Crown in the United Kingdom almost 200 years ago. 
I believe this is a central and fundamental matter. I suppose cynics will say: 'Well, the Governor-General in some people's view was vindicated by the action of the people on 13 December'. I do not believe the people voted on the single issue of whether the GovernorGeneral had acted rightly or wrongly. In the finish they were persuaded that they were voting for who would form the Government of this country for the next 3 years. I hope that this Government does have 3 years to govern. Certainly it is not in the situation that faced honourable members on this side of the House when we were in office from the end of 1972 or the beginning of 1 973. Our Government suffered continual harassment in another place, not about the rights of the States or anything else but simply because of the political numbers the then Opposition could not get its way in this place but was able occasionally to combine its numbers to get its way in another place. The then Opposition thwarted the proper carrying out of the parliamentary process by a government which was determined by the numbers in this House. Our 
Government's parliamentary process was frustrated virtually for the whole 3 years or so that we were in office. In the middle of our term we were forced to an election that we ought not to have needed. We won that election, but despite that the harassment continued in the Senate immediately we returned to office in July 1974 to try to carry on the work of government. We cannot have a system that has one set of rules when a party is in opposition and a different set of rules when it is in government. Both sides have to play by the same sort of rules because if we do not do it that way we bring the whole parliamentary process into disrepute. 
I am one who believes in the parliamentary system. I still believe it is the best system yet evolved by mankind to carry out its government. Nevertheless it is not an easy system of government, and it is not made any easier when the working rules can be subverted by chance numbers in another place or, if I may say, not only chance numbers but changed numbers when people die or there are casual vacancies. Even those rules were abrogated in the choosing of successors. People are mortal. Even on the backbench, while the pressure is not so high, one still does not live forever, politically or otherwise. A member may want to move somewhat further forward. Some honourable members probably will. I am quite happy to be in my place for a few years. I hope that this matter which I have raised will receive serious attention by this Government which does not have any problem about its numbers. 
At least it ought to accept that the rules of the game must be the same no matter which party is the Government. People might not like the government they get but it should not be hindered in its proper operations. 
As I said earlier- I do not want to traverse it as I hope that I will be able to write about it at greater length- I believe that the GovernorGeneral was quite wrong. One other principle that was distorted in the course of coming to that decision was a doctrine that used to be known as the separation of powers; that the legislature, the executive and the judiciary are all essential parts of the system but each is separate and distinct. The lines certainly became blurred when the Chief Justice was asked to give his opinion to the executive head- the Governor-General- as to whether certain things could or could not be done. I believe this to be quite wrong also. 
I have said this in public before.  Sir Garfield  Barwick is a former member of this House. Those who were in the House with him would not regard him as one of the greatest of its parliamentarians. I think that he was a poor parliamentarian. The sort of legal opinion that he gave to the Governor-General shows how poor a parliamentarian he was. He did not understand what ought to be the constitutional, commonsense working rules for a place like this. I believe that the people in this House can be wiser on those sorts of matters than so-called leading legal lights outside it. Parliament requires commonsense for its operation, particularly in the place that you are occupying at the moment,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  As well as consulting the Standing Orders the Speakers occasionally ought to rely on commonsense as well. Commonsense is sometimes better than what is written. 
Difficulties arise with a written Constitution such as Australia has. It tried to put into writing what were the conventions of the British system at the time the Constitution was written. It is unfortunate that had our Constitution been written in 1912 instead of 1901 it would have incorporated what became the Parliament Act of the House of Commons in 1911, that is that there could have been no refusal of Supply in another place. Had that been the situation, I believe that what happened on 1 1 November would not have occurred. 
I address a question to the Treasurer about two current conceptsunlegislated tax increases and tax indexation. I ask: Is he aware that between 1964-65 and 1972-1973, all Budget periods of LiberalCountry Party governments, net pay as you earn tax collections increased from $1 billion, to $3 billion, a threefold increase, and that in the same period gross domestic product only doubled? Was this large increase in pay as you earn unlegislated tax increase fiscal drag or benevolent fiscal dividend that made Budget balancing easier? Secondly, is what is now being called tax indexation merely a recognition that in the presence of continuing inflation tax justice demands regular, perhaps even annual, adjustments of tax schedules- a practice not followed by earlier Liberal-Country Party governments but begun by Labor? 
I hope that the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will convey to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  my appreciation that at last the Treasurer is speaking economic sense rather then the economic nonsense that he and his colleagues in another place talked when a similar measure was before the House 6 months ago. The previous Treasurer, my colleague, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has already indicated that seventeen or so questions were asked primarily in another place. If I may say so, the people who answered the questions and who claim to know what they were talking about ought to have known the answers without having to seek the information. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  referred to the fact that this measure is about the deficit. With all respect, I would suggest that it is about the deficit that was rather than the deficit that is or the situation that will be from now on. I draw his attention to what are known as the Niemeyer statements. The honourable member may even be more fortunate than I and have a statement which is a month later than mine. The statements show that to the end of January 1976 the actual deficit was $4,045m. I still believe that the figure of $5 billion which is being quoted in relationship to the deficit is grossly exaggerated. I believe that it is going to be closer to $4 billion than $5 billion. One of the reasons why this Government will be able to claim credit for savings is the paralysis that took place in this country from the time when the Budget was introduced until it was passed. Certain things that could have been done were not, and naturally enough the annual expenditure from many departments is going to be less than was projected. It is going to be less because desirable things that could have been done will not have been done. I refer to such matters as child care, which was mentioned here in the House today. 
I believe that this Government got into office simply by making loud noises about things like unemployment and inflation. I am the last to deny that each of those exists, perhaps at a higher rate than we would like, but nothing that this Government has done so far will remedy the situations in any sense. No measure yet taken by this Government in itself is going to have any impact upon either inflation or unemployment. I hope that both of them begin to abate. I think that if one discounts to some extent the last increase in the consumer price index because of the impact of certain indirect taxes, inflation is declining rather than rising. I believe that over the next 6 months the employment situation also will begin to improve. However, if both improve it will not be due, in any degree, to anything that this Government has yet done. 
One of the editors of a newspaper referred the other day to the fact that this was the first time that a government had been elected without having to produce a program. I suggest that that editor is too young to know that the only potential governments that have to produce programs when seeking election are Labor Party governments. When we were the Opposition at election time we were always faced with this question: 'Where is the money to come from?' We have a very illuminating indication in the Bill before us of just how much mysticism or mythology surrounds this situation. If I may I will take just one example that is referred to in the second reading speech on this Bill by the Treasurer. He referred to the National Welfare Fund. My friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  mentioned this earlier. I am going to present some factual information from the last report of the Auditor-General for the year ended 30 June 1 975. The Auditor-General has to report each year on the operations of the Fund and in that report he said: 
The National Welfare Fund was established by the National Welfare Fund Act 1943 as a Trust Account for the purposes of section 62A of the Audit Act. Moneys standing to the credit of the Fund are applied under the National Welfare Fund Act in making such payments as are directed by any law of the Commonwealth to be made from the Fund in relation to health, social services and other welfare services. 
I would like to begin by asking the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, how closing the Welfare Fund off in the way suggested by the Government can be said to be serving the legal purposes of the Fund which are supposed to relate to health, social services and other welfare services. From a purely book-keeping point of view I have no objections to the closing oK of the Fund but in my view it is to be closed off for purposes that are not legal, considering the reason for the Fund's being established. 
Broadly, the National Welfare Fund was built up in years when we collected more in taxes than we were able to find purposes to spend, so in one sense there now is a logic in doing the oppositewhen we have more expenditure than revenue we simply transfer. I say that it is a mere bookkeeping operation that makes no jot of difference whatever to the Budget deficit or to the kind of ominous portents that somebody sees in the Budget deficit. I do not see the portents in the Budget deficit as it was; I see them as I think my friend the honourable member for Oxley suggested: What is going to happen in the next several months in order to bridge the deficit that has occurred already? The Government at least has to act in the opposite way and has somehow to reduce the volume of money. 
It is easy for honourable members in Government to come in and say what an awful house and so on that they inherited. The Australian economy, while it was not as healthy as it ought to be, was by no means as bad as the Government and its supporters like to make out, and it will get worse unless those people begin to apply much more practical remedies than just to live on the inheritance of large unemployment and more inflation than they would like. I said during the course of the election campaign that Australia is not alone in the Western world in having inflation higher than it would like or unemployment greater than it would prefer to see. These matters are endemic at the moment to all Western capitalist economic systems. I must say that I have been nauseated by the spate of speeches in this House- I will not say that they were maiden speeches because not all of them were maiden speeches- bestowing such great virtues on something called private enterprise. Good old private enterprise is so good that the first thing that the Government has done is to give it an artificial stimulus, a subsidy called the investment allowance. Why cannot good old private enterprise which does not want the interference of government, do without the investment allowance? 
The honourable member for Macarthur is a maiden no longer; he is now in the ruck. I am not too sure that market forces, as he wanted to interpret them, worked out in quite the way he thought. It is nice to blame the Government. I happened to attend a church service on Sunday morning. I was walking down Collins Street and saw a notice on one of the windows saying: 'Closed forever. Thank Gough'. It is easy to suggest that there was nothing wrong with the business, that all that was wrong was the terrible Labor Government that the Australian people had. I suggest there is going to be no decline in the rate of business failures as a result of anything that this Government has done so far. 
-Well, many of them are. It is nice to be able to blame somebody else for the failures. I suggest that in the measure before us we have a very interesting case study about how large scale government finances itself. I suppose it is a truism that most of what governments require they have to get from taxes, but insofar as there is a difference, and the differences can be circumstantial according to time, there are times when it is wise to spend more than you get. Governments are a bit luckier than most people in that they can do it. Individuals do not last too long, unless they find a benevolent banker, if they spend more than they get, but a nation as a whole can do so. If a government is able to bridge by loans the difference between what it spends and what it gets in taxes you can get a circumstantial shift in the pattern of the economy. 
I notice that there is coming into the economic jargon now- I heard an honourable member on the Government side mention this in the course of this debate- something that is called 'crowding out'. It is a sort of suggestion that if governments go too far in what they spend, every million dollars that they spend reduces the total activity by more than that million dollars because private firms, presumably had they not been taxed, would have spent it more extensively, more wisely and with some multiplier effect. With all respect, these things are theories rather than realities. If there is evidence of economic decline or unused capacity- it is not easy to measure economic decline- I do not think anybody can say yet that capacity is unused because of a failure on the part of consumer demand rather than anything else. Maybe the greatest stimulus to consumer demand is more Government expenditure on welfare or the reduction of taxes. But there is no certainty about any of it. 
Iii the last month or two I have had a little more time to catch up on my economic reading than I had when I had the onerous job of being a Minister of the Crown. I must say that economic literature is no more enlightening in 1976 than it was in 1970, and I doubt whether it is really any more enlightening than it was in 1930, as far as that goes. It is a matter of trial and error rather than a matter of certainty. I hear people who, to say the least, ought to be uncertain, saying so much with such great certainty. I sometimes wish I was as sure of anything as the Treasurer seems to be about everything. I suggest that this is a great difficulty. The problems that face Australia are not easy of solution. I suggest that they are compounded because we have the sort of Federal system we have. 1 do not want to argue that at the moment. I hear all sorts of suggestions that somehow we are persuading the States that by giving them back what they had before they are somehow going to be better off. Candidly, I do not think the States care much how the cake is cut; they are more concerned about the share they get as against what goes to the Federal government. 
I think a lot was left to be desired under our Government and under previous governments on this question. But we do not solve the problem by taking over $1 billion worth of debt. It is another piece of book-keeping. Let us not get bamboozled by book-keeping. I am not one who has ever been opposed to growth; I think there could be arguments about the directions of growth. What everybody is striving for is real improvements in the gross domestic product. Real improvement in the gross domestic product means using our available skills, manpower, materials and machinery to the maximum advantage. I suppose the commodity that is almost in the greatest supply is money. It is not always easy to apply it properly in the places to which it ought to go. 
I suggest that the difficulty in Australia at the moment is a lack of confidence on the part of the great private enterprises. When I was on the other side of the House I used to say that people would be sorry in 1976 about decisions they could have taken but did not take in 1975, 1 believe that basically is still the situation. Private enterprise has its praying sessions to itself and extols its virtues but it always has the hand out and wants the Government to do something for it. What is not always asked is whether what is done for private enterprise is done at the expense of someone else? To have done the sort of things that the Government is now proposing to do with the Income Tax Act as first priorities would not be my priorities. I think Australia could have lived longer without the superphosphate bounty and without the restoration of the investment allowance. I think in restoring it the Government ought to have been a little more selective as to where it is restored and the conditions on which it is to be given. 
Should any firm get an investment allowance on new plant if its net depreciation is greater than its installation of plant? I submit that these are questions that the Government needs to examine much more closely. As our friend from Queensland has said, this debate is mainly about book-keeping. I was a little intrigued to hear the Treasurer being critical of our measure because it was open ended. He said he was specific about the sum in the first Bill. But then he introduced a second Bill, Loan Bill (No. 2), that contains no limit at all. To my mind it is an exercise in semantics when the end in the first Bill is closed but an open ended proposition is left in the second Bill. The only reason the end of the first Bill has been closed is that the sum of $700m, as was said by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  is greater than the Government will be likely to need for the remainder of this year. The sum can be devoted only to defence expenditure. But Loan Bill (No. 2) can divert expenditure unlimited. I am not suspicious of the Government's intent as it was of ours. I have the greatest admiration for the capacity of the people in the Treasury. I worked with them for a long time and I pay them tribute here. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I do not want to pursue the course which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has just taken. I see these 2 measures as part of the problem of Commonwealth-State relationships rather than an excursus into Australia's overseas investment situation. As in most of the debate on Commonwealth-State relations it is easy to become bamboozled. It is easy for broad generalisations to be made as though they are great revolutionary changes. I would submit, in the first instance, that the transfer of $1 billion of State debt to the Commonwealth sounds like a magnificent gesture to those who still think $1 billion is a large sum of money, but let me relate this to the total debt situation in Australia. I should like to quote figures from the latest issue of the document  Government Securities on Issue at 30 June  1975 that came out with the Budget. It showed that at that point Australia's total debt, internal and external, was of the order of $17.7 billion but $16.5 billion or nearer to $16.6 billion of that amount was held internally, and of the $16.6 billion that was held internally only $5 billion belonged to the Australian Government as distinct from the States, and of the $5 billion that ostensibly belonged to Australia an amount of $3 billion was in the short term, not the long term. So Australia's internal funded debt was less than $2 billion whereas the States' funded debt internally was $11.6 billion. I simply suggest that to transfer $1 billion of State debt, or if you like less than 10 per cent, is in my view again the kind of obfuscation that goes on in Australia instead of facing up to the realities of Commonwealth-State relationships. 
The 2 measures before us are the National Debt Sinking Fund Amendment Bill and the Financial Agreement Bill. The legislation seeks to amend the National Debt Sinking Fund Act. As the honourable member for Mackellar said, the National Debt Sinking Fund has been in existence since 1923, apparently a belated sort of recognition then- I would suggest that thinking may be different in 1976 from what it was in 1923- that even governments perhaps have to repay their debts. The Fund was set up. at least with the ostensible virtue of extinguishing the debt, I think, over a 58-year period. This of course was before the Financial Agreement which came into existence at the onset of the Depression when it was realised how stupid it was for 6 separate Australian States to seek funds externally and that it was far better for this to be done neatly. One reason for the passing of one of the very few referenda in Australia that has been passed is I think that people did not really know what it was about. Surely this again is a great reflection on the then political maturity. Whether it is any greater now I do not know, but when one analyses the nonsense that is talked by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of giving the States back certain powers one realises that all he wants to do is take the odium from himself and put it on to somebody else. I am sure that what the States are concerned about is how much they get in total rather than whether they get it directly themselves. 
I hope we never go through the nonsense again of having a diversity of income tax structures in Australia as we had prior to the uniform taxation arrangements, but that is the kind of thing that willy-nilly sometimes is the course on which you set yourself. If ever there was a government in Australia that could do what it wants to do, perhaps for 3 or 6 years undisturbed, it is the present Government but it seems to be prepared to woo popularity now on a shorttime basis rather than face up to the realities of Commonwealth-State relationships in Australia. As far as I am concerned, I would say definitely that it is a retrograde step to go back on the uniform tax arrangements. There can be a lot of argument about what the Government collects and how it is distributed, but to think that you solve the problem by formulas like the one now proposed by taking a $1 billion debt out of nearly $12 billion as though you have made some great contribution to the problem, shows the essential short-sighted nature of the problem. 
I always pay tribute to the honourable member for Mackellar because I think he does his homework on measures of this sort but I think sometimes he is inclined to make the same speech irrespective of the Bill before the House. Nevertheless, he did indicate that at least as far as the National Debt Sinking Fund was concerned there really was no change at all. I would have thought that in presenting these 2 Bills, particularly the Financial Agreement Bill, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  would have made this clear. Clause 12b (2) in the Schedule headed Sinking Funds reads: 
The sinking fund contribution payable by a State in the year commencing the 1st July 1973 shall be the amount in respect of the State set out opposite the State in the following table- 

<graphic href="098131197603165_55_1.jpg"></graphic>

If honourable members read the Schedule they will wonder really where those figures come from. If they do as they ought to do, and that is go to the annual report of the National Debt Sinking Fund, they will find that those amounts are roughly what the States were paying at 30 June 1975, and of course the payments unfortunately increase year by year because the debt increases. Under the same section of the Schedule there is set out in clause 12c (2) what the Commonwealth has to pay in respect of its contribution to the various States. It reads: 
The sinking fund contribution payable by the Commonwealth in relation to a State in the year commencing the 1st July 1975 shall be the amount in respect of the State provided in the following table- 

<graphic href="098131197603165_56_2.jpg"></graphic>

That is a grand total of $30.2m compared with what the States in aggregate have to pay, that is $121. 5m, or approximately one out of five as a share. So much for generosity. Surely we ought to be facing up to the reality of the situation. We all talk about what we call a co-operative federalism and this seemed to be part of the issues at the recent election. Then we get into the nonsense that somehow this will be changed simply by a change in a formula. What is being done here is being done by the agreement of both sides. It was something initiated by Prime Minister Gorton and honoured by our Government but I do not think the new Government proposes to honour it. What one government does sometimes ought to be contractually acknowledged by the next government. At least we accepted the reality that Prime Minister Gorton said in 1970 or 1971 that over a period of 5 years he would make this magnificent gesture of transferring $1 billionless than 10 per cent of the total State debt- out of the hands of the States on to the Commonwealth. This is what this legislation primarily does. Meanwhile of course the States' debts rise by more than the $1 billion a year or certainly something of the same magnitude. I have heard the honourable gentleman talk on other occasions about the inequity of paying out of revenue for what he calls capital works. I suggest that it is sometimes not quite as easy to draw the same sorts of conclusions about government finance as one would draw about individual finance. If a person buys a motor car he is wise to set aside some provision annually so that at the end of three, four or five years- whenever he can afford to buy a new car- he has the capital sum to replace the asset. The situation is not quite the same if instead of having one motor car a person has five or six. He probably did not buy them all in the same year and it becomes a point of some debate whether there is much difference in setting aside a fifth of the cost of each car annually rather than simply buying a new one to replace one of the five every now and again. 
The same sort of argument, of course, applies to government activity. If a government has to build hundreds of schools every year, which it has to do in a growing community, it becomes a matter of bookkeeping rather than a matter of economic sense. Either it sets aside a certain sum for the life of each school building or it says: 'All we have to do is have enough annually to pay for whatever number we want to provide. ' 
I feel that the honourable gentleman sometimes still thinks in terms of the depression thinking of  Sir Bertram  Stevens' day when I understand that gentleman was a very prominent member in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly rather than in today's terms when people demand more and more from governments in the way of public provision than they did many years ago. We may some day reach the stage in Australia- we are certainly not there yet- when we have all the schools, hospitals and welfare institutions we want. The accounting problem may then be somewhat different. Despite what this Government says about cutting down on government expenditure each week there are instances of it increasing such expenditure and it is never specific about where the reductions will take place. This is the problem of Commonwealth-State relations. I suppose one of the early lessons we all learn as students of economics is that there is a difference between what are called wants and needs and that there is also a problem that there are always scarce resources in relation to the things that one would like to do. One has to make some sort of rational choice. One has to have schemes of priorities. I have thought for a long time- I thought this in Opposition and I tried to do it in Governmentthat the body we call the Loan Council, instead of being an annual wrangle about sums of money, ought to consider rationally what has to be done at all levels of government- not just the 2 levels. After all, the previous Government was the first to acknowledge that local government, formerly the poor relation in the system, was significant. 
They are all value judgments but some cannot judge as well as others and some do not have the right sense of values. This is what politics is about in the long run and it is also what priorities are about. It is about things like liberty, justice, democracy, equality of opportunity and so on. It is not just about who has the billions and who does not have the thousands. My wife used to say to me: 'You are pretty good about the billions but not too good about the hundreds'. I suppose that is the difference between private housekeeping and national housekeeping, but this Government should be concerned about national housekeeping and that means looking after the interests of people in local government areas, in State areas and in national areas. There are supposed to be sensible divisions of functions but we have not come to a sensible decision on how to allocate finance to the functions. I think that even this Government will slowly learn that it is a lot more convenient to have the finance in one hand rather than in several. I warn the Government that it should not be too easily offhanded about placating people in the name of a theory. It is the practice that matters and the Government should not give away the benefits of uniform taxation as it has operated in Australia for something like 30 years. Of course there are arguments about how what is collected should be shared. 
One needs look only at the very bulky document that is furnished every year with the Budget- 'Payments to and for the States'- to see the variety of changes that have taken place. Even in the so-called beneficence of the Commonwealth taking the $ 1000m from the shoulders of the States it is never clear in the Australian context that if there is a shift of function and finance in one direction the functions that are left will necessarily receive the same finance as it was thought they would. We had this problem in our own Government. If the Commonwealth Government takes over tertiary education from the State governments in the name of efficiency it does not mean that the money that the States formerly spent on tertiary education will be left for them to spend on something else. 
These are the kinds of problems that the Government is not honestly answering at the moment. It is making great noises and doing great window-dressing about the new deal to the States but what the States want is the finance for the functions that they wish to perform. With all respect, I so not think they care much where it comes from as long as they get it. This is supposedly an exercise in changing CommonwealthState relations but I suggest that all it is is a little bit of humbug and bookkeeping rather than reality. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the total amount of subscriptions to Australian Savings Bonds and Inscribed Stock, Series 1, 10.5 per cent per annum, maturing at 1 February 1983. 
What was the total number of subscribers to the Series. 
In addition to the total number in part (2), what was the number of subscribers by levels of subscription, viz: (a) less than $1000, (b) $1,001 -$5,000, (c) $5,001-$10,000, (d) $10,000-$20,000, (e) $20,00 1-$40,000, (f) $40,00 1-$50,000 and (2) over $50,000. 
What was the total amount of subscribers in the various levels of subscription indicated in part (3 ). 
-I have listened to this debate, which has gone on much longer than I should have thought it would. I take my text from the previous  speaker  who suggested that politics should be kept out of Aboriginal affairs. I would put the proposition the opposite way: Aboriginal affairs should be kept out of politics. I think that, unfortunately increasingly, it is the opposite that will happen. I suppose that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has more Aborigines or Aboriginals- I am never too sure of the terminology- in his electorate than anybody else. I have probably fewer in my electorate than anyone else. But I believe that basically every Australian should hold his head in shame at the way in which this matter has been treated. I sometimes despair of what the solution will be. I have travelled in the electorate of the honourable member for the Northern Territory from time to time. I have travelled in the electorate of Kalgoorlie. I must say that when I went to places like Derby and Broome the attitude of the white community in those towns to the non-white community was almost like apartheid. 
We have all this business about land rights and so on. I have not yet read Professor Blainey 's latest book about Australian pre-history, but I have read reviews of it. He estimates that the maximum Aboriginal population was never any more than three hundred thousand. These days, when we take into account the full bloods and pan blood Aborigines and so on the figure is something like that again. It is a serious problem for Australia. On one occasion when I was Treasurer I examined the total amount that was being expended on dealing with this problem. It amounted to several thousand dollars per head of the people. I say with all respect that I do not think that we are getting value for the money nor is the money being disposed of in the most sensible ways. I hope that, as the honourable gentleman says, politics will be kept out of this matter. Surely one of the best ways of seeing that politics is kept out is to have a joint committee from both sides of the Parliament. At least one cannot be unaware of the powerful economic forces that are now in operation in some of the areas that are supposed to be the land areas of the Aboriginal population and the problems such as whether we will take uranium, whether we will take bauxite, whether we will take some other minerals without consideration for the rights of these people. I think that my friend knows that there are some difficulties involved with regard to that. 
I do not think that it is as easy as you suggest. 
-Well you did not, but you did suggest difficulty. I would take you up and say that it is not easy and that surely the approach cannot be a paternal one any more. I must say that when I was in the honourable member's part of the world some years ago, there was a disposition to say: 'If only you southerners would keep out of the area we would solve the problems ourselves'. 
I am surprised that the honourable member should take that attitude. I thought that he was formerly a principal of a college of advanced education. I would say that it is  unadvanced  education to think that in 1976 we can have a paternalistic approach to this problem. We on this side of the House take the view that irrespective of where people are born, irrespective of the circumstances in which they are born, they are people; they are individuals who have a vote, who have a right, and the right cannot be exercised paternally any more. I do not want to be hostile in this debate but I suggest that this committee, when it is established, has to do a lot more hard thinking, has to have a much more humanitarian approach and has to be more realistic in 1976, given that Australia can be a beleaguered place so far as some other parts of the world are concerned. I hope that this committee, when it is appointed, will get down to hard work instead of, as I think in the past, too many platitudes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-May I begin where the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  finished. He said that certain restraint that was now thought to be necessary should not be described as a credit squeeze. In my day as Treasurer I had hurled at me the charge that something that was being done was a credit squeeze and I did endeavour to point out that credit squeeze is one of those witch words for which there is no very nice alternative. What does one say? Nobody thinks of attaching opprobrium to particular acts when money is easy to get but when, as a consequence of making it too easy to get, you decide to work the opposite way people use this nasty term 'credit squeeze' which I agree has high emotive overtones and possibly psychological effects. This is one of the difficulties, I suppose, of using too much economic jargon and of not perhaps getting down to what are some of the fundamental problems. 
I would like to join issue with the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his assessment of the situation as this Government found it when it came to office. He said: 
The results of this abandonment of all sense of budgetary responsibility led, in the ultimate, to a drying up of demand in the private sector and a quite devastating loss of confidence. 
He then said: 
Consumer spending fell away. Business investment slumped. Production fell. Job opportunities vanished and unemployment soared. 
I suppose that is all summed up in the glib phrase that was used during the election campaign, that is, that the Australian economy was on its knees. I think the honourable member for Berowra used those fine words. To suggest the Australian economy was or is on its knees now is utter nonsense. The Australian economy is still one of the healthiest economies in the Western world and I would submit that nothing has been done yet by the Government now in office that in any way has changed the economic situation for the better. 
The honourable member for Berowra referred to the investment allowance. There has been great praise of private enterprise in the abstract, but it has to have subsidies to keep it going. That is what the investment allowance is. It is time that these things were acknowledged. How else does one, in economic realism, describe the action of a person who buys a piece of plant for $10,000, who puts it in the books at $14,000, and straight away claims $4,000 as a tax deduction? Then he claims the normal depreciation on the $10,000, the true historical cost of the piece of plant. That is what the investment allowance is. It is a naked subsidy, yet apparently it is welcomed by the apostles of free enterprise who believe that government should not interfere. Apparently, assistance does not mean interference if the assistance is of that kind. I do not know whether the honourable member read in the  Australian Financial Review  this morning that two cement plants are likely to be constructed where only one is needed, because each is being lured by the investment allowance. Surely, this points to the need for some selectivity in the application of some of these concessions or benefits. Maybe the allowance should be given to only one out of the two but then there is the nasty decision as to which one of the two it is to be. We do not want to reach the situation again where there is over-capacity in some areas at the same time as there is under-capacity in others. 
Among the usual bundle of papers that we receive every day- I think it was issued yesterdaywas the latest issue of the  Round-up of Economic Statistics,  a publication which I am responsible for initiating and which I am pleased to see has been taken up and is a monthly bulletin. This is number 38 so it has been going for quite a while. There is an addendum to this issue. Certain facts came in too late to be incorporated in the main text. They deal with the national accounts for the December quarter. I read from that addendum: 
Preliminary national accounts statistics for the December quarter, which are subject to revision and should be interpreted with caution, suggest that total final demand for goods and services, seasonally adjusted at constant prices, fell by 1.3 per cent in the December quarter, following a fall of 0.7 per cent in the September quarter. 
On a half-yearly basis it suggests that the half year to December showed a decline of 3.1 per cent at an annual rate. I am not arguing about the last 12 months. I think we have to go back to before 1970- the period when the present Government was previously in office- to find a real physical decline in total output. I think it is time we stopped this nonsense of suggesting that the economy is on its knees. Until the last six months- I suggest it will begin to climb upwards again- it was producing more goods and services than ever before which, after all, is what should happen. 
In real terms. 
That is what should happen in an economy. The honourable gentleman should listen instead of exerting his complexes without really listening to the facts. At the end of June 1975 the gross national product corrected for price changes was higher than it had ever been before. That was during the period of the Labor Government- those terrible three years that are talked about. Unfortunately, the last twelve months has been the first year for a considerable time that total employment was less than in the year before but even that has begun to be reversed over the last several months. 
The honourable member for Berowra talked about ideological problems. I say categorically that there will be no fundamental change in the Australian economy either in my lifetime or in his and he perhaps has a bit longer to go than I have. Essentially, it will still be a Western capitalist system and the greatest single economic problem that will confront it then as it does now is what share of the total product goes to wages. Wages are the biggest recipient of the gross national product. Wage earners are also the biggest single source of consumer spending. This, of course, is the great dilemma. The Government wants to cut costs but it also wants to increase consumption and as long as one of the principal costs is wages it will always face a difficult problem. The Treasurer at some stage in his remarks- he referred to what he thinks are excessive wage claims- said that during the period 1974-75 the share of wages, salaries and supplements of the gross domestic product rose from 61 per cent to 68 per cent. I suppose one could argue that 61 per cent was an unfair figure and perhaps 68 per cent was going too far the other way. But nobody can categorically assert what proportion of the GDP should go to wages. Eighty-five per cent of the working population are wage earners or income recipients. The squeeze on profits did more than just alter the relative shares of the national income. In 1974-75 company incomes, recorded in a conventional accounting manner, fell in absolute terms by 7 per cent while wages, salaries and supplements increased by 28 per cent. These trends forced businessmen to reassess the expected future profitability of their enterprises, the key ingredient in decisions to undertake investment projects. 
The  addendum to the document I have referred to which bears the date 12 March and which was issued yesterday says that the gross operating surplus of trading companies rose by 2.3 per cent in the quarter in current dollar terms- this is to the end of December 1975- and now stands at 11.9 per cent of gross domestic product at factor cost. Again, it is difficult to determine whether that is a fair or unfair figure but it is certainly a better figure than that at June 1 975. 1 suggest that this makes the analysis of the Treasurer rather silly. He based it on what was happening when company profits were falling as a share, whereas now they are increasing. Compared with a year earlier the gross operating surplus of companies showed a rise of 10.4 per cent. Whether that is a good figure or a bad figure it is certainly a better one than it was. The future attitude to wages- in the analysis that the Treasurer indulges in- contains some very serious implications if, as the honourable member for Berowra said, the real uplift in the economy must come from rising real consumer demand. 
One of the things achieved by the Labor Government was to get some kind of compactsome people call it a contract; some sort of arrangement- the Government keeping the ring, between employers and employees as to how price increases should be met via the wage structure. This, after all, is what indexation was about. It was an attempt to take the inflation factor out of the wage process and to make wage increases dependent on work value, on productivity increases or something of the kind. That worked for some months, until the figure in the last quarter was 6.4 per cent. That seemed to horrify the Government. The unions had indicated that as long as the figure was less than one per cent they would not sue for the increase; it had to be more than one per cent in a quarter. When the figure gets to 6.4 per cent the Government is horrified as to the future. 
-I am not to sure that the majority of the population always understands these questions. There are times when the majority opinion is not right. A survey was undertaken recently of trade unionists in Great Britain. They were divided nearly half and half as to whether inflation or unemployment was the more serious matter with which the British Government had to grapple. The present Government seems to see inflation as the great danger, and I am trying to warn it that if it pursues the kind of policies which it is pursuing it will increase unemployment and probably will not do much to halt inflation. There is no easy answer to these sorts of questions. Least of all do I expect any constructive attitude to come from the people who are now the Government of this country, because I do not believe they understand the fundamentals of the matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I support the measure that is before us subject to the amendment moved by my colleague, which simply draws attention to the fact that there may be some who will suffer detriment by reason of the introduction of this scheme. At least the position of those people should be looked at. There is a clause in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefit legislation that when a change was made there should be no detriment to a particular contributor by reason of the new scheme as against the old. That is all that this amendment seeks. It is nice to be able to score political points by saying that the amendment is obstructing the BUI. Nobody has any doubt that the Bill is going to go through this House. Fortunately for them honourable members opposite have not got the position in 1976 that we had in 1975 that what we got through this House could be frustrated in another place. So to the extent that one plays politics, I shall play it to that extent. But all we are trying to draw to the attention of the House is that there are some people- this includes some attendants in this House- who claim that they suffer a detriment in their retirment by reason of the introduction of this scheme as against what would have happened under the previous scheme. Whether that is the case or not, and the individual details of it, I do not know. All that my colleague is trying to draw attention to is that there are some people who claim that they suffer a detriment. All I am sorry about is that this Bill, in a somewhat better form, was not passed more than a year ago. Whilst a certain amount of unction can be taken now about the reasons for rejecting our Bill, I simply say that it was politics played by those who now accuse the present Opposition of playing politics on this matter. 
I do not want to go into the detail of this Bill to a great extent. I find it a little hard to believe that it can be rationalised that 45 per cent payable at age 60 years is somehow more equitable than 50 per cent payable at age 60 years and 60 per cent payable at age 65 years. I leave the honourable gentleman to tread on his own points of the needle so far as those fine distinctions are drawn. I simply point out now that the objective to which both Parties claim to be working with regard to social security benefits is a pension that will be one-quarter of average weekly earnings. For a married couple this means they will have 50 per cent of what the earnings are at retirement- not over the last several years, but what the average weekly earnings happen to be from year to year. 
What I do want to draw attention to is the awful mishmash that exists in Australia with regard to provision for retirement. Attention is drawn to this kind of difficulty in chapter 2 of the interim report of the Committee of Inquiry on National Superannuation in Australia. The report shows, for instance, that in 1971-72- that is some 5 years ago now- Commonwealth, State, local government and semi-government schemes covered something like 678 000 contributors and 115 000 pensioners. At that stage fewer than one-third of that total number of contributors were covered by the scheme about which we are now talking. I concede that many details would have to be analysed before one could say precisely whether the State or local government schemes are better or worse than the Commonwealth scheme. But at least I think it will be agreed that governments, be they State, local or Australian, were the first to recognise in a systematic way the need to provide that those who. had wrought in their years of strength in the service should be adequately looked after in their retirement. I hope that we will get around to implementing this principle as a nation very quickly. Whatever virtues we try to take ourselves I think we are almost the last example of a Western democracy that has not got a comprehensive national scheme covering all people. 
The chapter to which I referred in the Hancock report contains statistics for the whole of Australiathey are certainly rudimentary and are based largely on an inquiry undertaken by a Canadian expert in Victoria in 1968- which show that only one-third of the total population of Australia was covered for retirements benefits and that many of those people were covered most inadequately, and that even in an age of equality of the sexes provision for retirement benefits was predominantly for males and the number of females eligible for this benefit was almost negligible. So we have a long way to go. I believe that Australia is capable of providing for all a retirement scheme that will give them something like one half of whatever they were earning at the point of retirement. But at present retirement benefits are provided by a hotchpotch of processes. 
The Hancock Committee points out that well over half of the males at age 65 qualify for a full pension irrespective of the operation of the means test. The means test has been liberalised. I would say categorically that I was never a great supporter of the abolition of the means test. However, this objective became part of the doctrines of both the major political parties. In no area was political advantage more blatantly used by the present Government than in its use of the abolition of the means test as a central pillar in respect of social equality in the social system. I believe that far more important than the abolition of the means test is the need to make the basic pension adequate for those who require it. We can add the other refinements after if we want to. But the reality of the situation at the moment is that because of the failure to provide systematically for retirement in Australia the majority of people on retirement do become recipients of the age pension. The cost of providing for this benefit is increasing considerably. 
Those people who provide for themselves by way of superannuation, life insurance or some of the various forms of savings can take advantage of certain tax concessions. When we take into account the tax provisions as far as life assurance is concerned- I have said this before and got into a certain amount of hot water over it with people in the life assurance industry who are living in the last century rather than the present century I believe that life insurance in the rest of the 20th century and into the 2 1st century will be a very different sort of system from what it has been from its introduction up until the present time. By that I do not mean to denigrate in any sense the service that life assurance has provided over recent years. But life assurance would not have been as extensively used and would not be a very effective form of saving today if it were not for the tax concessions attached to it. One only needs to look at the last annual report of the Life Insurance Commission to see that the return on investments is not very substantial. If it were not for the tax savings that are made by the person who pays a life assurance premium this area would not be a very effective way of mobilising savings in the community. 
I repeat that while life assurance may have served a role in the past I think that role has to be very different in the years ahead. The sooner both sides of the House and the life assurance industry in particular realise that the more we will avoid the sterile sort of debate and activity that took place in the last election in which life assurance clerks were mobilised as Liberal ticket holders and pushers on the day of the elections. 
Much of general insurance in the workers' compensation field is virtually bankrupt. This again is something that requires closer examination by both sides of the House in the future. I believe that the role of insurance in the remainder of the 20th century will be a very different one from what it has been. The industry should vacate many of the fields which it now occupies. It should be much more imaginative in the fields in which it wants to remain. 
The honourable member refers to the question of nationalising insurance companies. When one looks at the preponderance of their investments either in Government securities or in debentures of multi-national societies or mortgages, one really wonders how much private enterprise there is. 
I want to say a little about the investment policy being pursued by the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund at the moment. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in his second reading speech seemed to suggest that there would be a liberalisation of this policy in the future. I suggest that that remains to be seen. If I may say so, there is a far better yield on investments of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund than the yields on the investments of the life assurance industry taken generally. But when one finds that part of the return to the Commonwealth fund is by investment in mortgages, in some cases returning 15V4 per cent, I sometimes wonder where we are getting to in this so-called freedom to invest in other than government securities. I sound a warning that it is extremely doubtful whether investment in equities is necessarily a better proposition for a life assurance or a superannuation investment policy than investment in the last sort of loan that was floated by the Government. Honourable members opposite can crow jubilantly and get a little grandiloquent about the great release and amount of the funds, but after all, as I see it, there will be roughly $ 120m to $ 125m of new funds annually in the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund as against total available annual investible funds in Australia of something like $15 billion. I do not think we should get too carried away by what this new freedom in the investment policy will mean in reality. I believe that at times euphoria overcomes commonsense in the evaluation of these things. I have heard in many speeches in the last few weeks comments about this great animal called private enterprise or free enterprise. The life insurance companies have chosen to put their investments into the multinationals or the safe debentures rather than in risk-taking enterprises. 
There is one matter to which I want to draw attention because I believe it is a matter that should receive the scrutiny of both sides of the House. When there exists a scheme such as the Commonwealth superannuation scheme, or ultimately, as I hope, a national superannuation scheme, what then is the role of social services and the pension-free means test? I believe that it is over-generous that people in government employment should receive a pension which, taking into account the provisions for refund of contributions, is a fully government pension, and when they reach the age of 65 years they believe that they are automatically entitled to that pension as well as to the social service pension. I think that there has to be a rethinking of that aspect. It ought to be possible to compute on a given pension- whether it is from a private source or a government source and taking into account past tax provisions and so on- how much of that pension is being paid directly from Consolidated Revenue. That should be taken into account as an offsetting factor before determining people's eligibility for a direct contribution from Consolidated Revenue via the social service provisions. Unless that is done there will be a maldistribution of resources and the criticism may well be made that the community as a whole cannot afford it. 
I am prepared to say categorically that a community can pay to people in retirement something that has some relationship to what they earned in the last years of their economic activity. Whether it is in the last year or the last several years seems to me to be a quibble, but if no provision is given to them directly then it has to be given indirectly through various sorts of social service systems and relief schemes with onerous means tests and so on attached. I believe that it is a mark of an enlightened community that it will pay to people in retirement sufficient to enable them to live at the standard to which they believe they are entitled and towards which they contributed during their active years in the community. It is possible to put arguments as to whether people should retire at 65 years, 60 years, 67 years, 62 years or some earlier age. Those matters are always debatable, and I wish that at times greater emphasis was placed on those sorts of nuances than on the sheer political differences that sometimes emerge. 
The Hancock Committee report drew attention in its introduction to the fact that matters of final retirement had technical, actuarial, economic and legal aspects. I should like to add sociohuman attitudes as well. Those are the sorts of things we should be examining. We are only doing justice to our own servants, our direct employees, in the provisions of this Bill, but this 
Parliament has an obligation to try to do justice to all sections of the community, to see that the national cake is distributed properly. The work force at any time has to support children not yet active and people who are retired on the social contract assumption that when they retire they will be treated in an adequate way. There is therefore an obligation to make proper provision out of the existing cake, both at the early end for education and at the latter end for adequate retirement. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  on his maiden speech. He certainly showed some courage in delivering it in a debate of this kind rather than choosing the path chosen by most of his colleagues, namely the AddressinReply debate. I commend him for what he said. The subject of foreign investment in Australia is intriguing enough, I suppose. I must say that I have been greatly intrigued by what are called the new guidelines. Having read the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  very carefully, I find it a little hard to know what is the difference between the procedure now and what it was previously. I would say that the best guideline for any foreigner who wants to invest in Australia is still: First find a suitable Aus.tralian partner. There should not be any more go-it-alone type of foreign investment in Australia. For too long- it applied under previous governments for a long time- did we allow the eyes of investment opportunity to be picked out by the foreign investor. After all, no foreigner invests in this country unless he believes that there is something in it for him. There is nothing wrong with that as an objective, as far as I can see. Equally, Australia ought not to be interested in that foreign investment if there is nothing in it for us. So it is a 2-way street. Foreign investment should advantage the foreigner. Foreign investment, if allowed in Australia, should be useful to Australia. 
I have heard a lot today about the significance of foreign investment in Australia. I would not deny that Australian economic development in 1976 would not be what it is without the great deal of foreign investment that has taken place; but I do not think that should blind us to the reality that the majority of investable funds employed annually in Australia is found within Australia. The latest figures showed the Australian gross domestic product as running at about $60 billion. Approximately one-quarter of that, $15 billion, was investable funds. Of that $15 billion, something like two-thirds- that is about $10 billion- went into private investment and $5 billion went into public investment. Of course, foreign investment does not find its way into public investment; it goes exclusively into the area of private investment. When one takes out of the private investment part- the $10 billion- the part that is attributable to private dwelling construction, of course what is left is the beginning of the part that adds to the structure of industry in Australia. This is why I agree with the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  that the sums that have been invested overseas, whilst marginal to that total, perhaps have been unusually significant as far as the infrastructure or structure in industry is concerned. 
Of course, there was a difficulty with the legislation that was passed in this field. It was passed by the McMahon Government in a great hurry a matter of a few months before an election and was a makeshift piece of legislation which we were not really able to amend until almost the end of the Labor Government's period of officenot that there was no intention to alter it but the parliamentary program and the resistance in the 
Senate made it difficult. I must say that, makeshift and all as it was nevertheless that legislation served Australia very well. We set aside certain fields in which we said there shall be no foreign investment. I still believe that it is right that there should be no foreign investment in these fields. We had never allowed it in the area of aviation. We had not allowed it in banking. We had not allowed it in broadcasting. I certainly hope that no government in Australia in the future will ever allow any foreign investment in the media, whether it is Press, television or radio. I think they are things that should be owned entirely by Australians for Australia. I hope that certain Press gentlemen who have done well outside Australia will not attempt to buy Press in Australia. I hope that some day there will be legislation that will see that they cannot do so. 
The previous speaker referred to the word 'multinational' being a dirty word. I back away from that sentiment. I do not regard 'multinational ' as a dirty word at all. As I said earlier, I believe that, had it not been for some of the multinationals operating in Australia, Australian industry in 1976 would be very much different from what it is. Most of the multinationals, so called, as they operate in Australia in my view are more 'national' than they are 'multi'. Let me put it this way: General Motors in Australia is more concerned about the Holden than it is about the Opel or some other car that General Motors makes somewhere else. Another factor is the vast amount of plough-back that now occurs. Multinationals operating in Australia are no different from Australian companies operating in Australia. Like everybody else, if they make a profit they pay tax. The tax is paid at the company rate in Australia. Most of them, if they are prudent, do not distribute everything that is left after they have paid their taxes; they plough some of it back. Sometimes the shareholder gets a bit by way of a dividend. 
I would think that much the larger part of the increment in foreign ownership in Australia in recent years has come from ploughed back profits or, if you like has been taken out of the hides of the consumers in Australia, rather than from new capital from overseas, although it appears in the statistics as capital inflow. I do not know how difficult it would be to have one, but I think it is about time that some sort of register was made in Australia as to the overseas ownership of assets as equity in Australia. I do not know what the figure is, but in what might have been called the golden days of foreign investment it was running somewhere in excess of $ 1 billion per annum and it ran in that way for some of the last few years of the then Liberal-Country Party Government. I would think that the United States investment now in Australia is probably as great as the United Kingdom investment. The United Kingdom investment began a long while earlier, mainly for historical and traditional reasons, but the relatively fast grower in recent years has been the American companies that are domiciled in Australia. 
I would hazard a guess that in aggregate the equity is probably well in excess of $10 billion. I suppose that is a substantial enough figure, but one thing that I think ought to be remembered sometimes is that we have a great advantage in the mining area in that we are concerned not so much about equity alone as about the fact that we still own the hole in the ground. Whatever might be the book value of General MotorsHolden's, International Harvester and the petrol companies of one kind and another, they certainly cannot pick up the stumps and leave us. At least the assets are worth more in Australia than they are worth anywhere else. In fact, apart from their physical existence in Australia, I suppose they are probably worthless anywhere else. They cannot just sell themselves up. That is not likely to happen. But there does have to be some sort of accommodation with the realities of the situation. I think one of the weaknesses of the takeover legislation is that when it was passed there was not much left that was worth taking over. The damage already had been done. At least there is now scrutiny. 
I repeat what I said at the beginning. In my view the golden rule of advice to any foreigner still is: First find an Australian partner. I have never been a firm believer that the partnership should be on a 50/50 or 5 1 /49 basis. In my time as Treasurer I used to say that it could be anything from 100 to 0 or 0 to 100, depending on the circumstances. Each case was examined case by case. The same words as I used to use are still being used by the present Treasurer. The honourable member for Ballarat might even have heard me say that kind of thing in those secret days that he cannot talk about to some of the people who used to come to see me. I do not think there has been any shortage of people wanting to invest in Australia over the last 10 years. They were just as prevalent in the last 3 years as I believe they were in the previous 7 years. I think some difficulties were experienced, and in my view experienced quite rightly, in the mining area, but mining is somehow different from the rest. 
Whatever may be said about the capital that is necessary to develop, say, iron ore on a large scale, I do not think the same sort of thing applies as far as coal is concerned. I believe Australia has the technical capacity and the availability of capital to do coal extracting itself. As my colleague the former Minister for Minerals and Energy has said, we should be much more careful about the price we get than we have been in the past. But a curious idea somehow seems to exist in the minds of both the Japanese investors and the West German investors that somehow, unless they have part of the equity they cannot be sure that they are going to get the goods. It is easy to disabuse them of that kind of thinking. We always said in the trading area that we were not closing our doors to those countries' access to iron, steel and coal but we were entitled to say to them, if we wanted to say it, that we did not want any of their equity in this field or that field but we may want it somewhere else. It seems to me that the problems are no different for the present Government from what they were for the Labor Government. Some great apostles of free enterprise have suddenly entered this House. I am already getting nauseated by the use of the phrase 'free enterprise'. I say again that if those who claim to believe in free enterprise had shown a bit of enterprise Australia would not have been so overridden in some areas by foreign investment. I believe that foreign investment often has come about because no one in Australia was willing to take a risk. I think it is time that those who believe in enterprise got off that sort of horse and got down to showing a bit of enterprise instead of just talking about it as a great political shibboleth, which I am afraid it is becoming. 
I had not intended to speak in this debate but I was provoked a little by what my friend the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  said about the banking legislation. While he may have some difficulty in getting consolidation of all the banking legislation, the one thing the law has not been able to do is to define a bank. Despite all the zeal tonight for simplification there are some matters that are complicated. Whatever is done about altering citations, complicated subjects are not made simple by the use of this sort of device. 
I had some experience in this matter when writing an Act, which I think is going to be very significant in the future, about what are called non-banking financial institutions. I am pleased to see my colleagues the technocrats sitting in the gallery but no one has yet defined a bank. They can tell you what a bank is not. With all respect to my friend the honourable member for Fraser I hope we can get simplification in the banking legislation and that we can get little pamphlets that will contain it, but I hope too much is not expected of this change in title dealt with in the Acts Citation Bill. The objective is simple enough but certain of the matters upon which we have to legislate contain complexities of their own. It is not easy to get clarity. One of the great simple clauses in the Constitution is section 92. It is known as the layman's clause. However, until recently it caused much more complication than many other clauses. I hope too much is not expected of the simple change of title. 
-My colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  indicated on behalf of the Opposition our opposition to this motion on the basis that there already is a committee set up to examine committees- I think it is called, rather tautologically. the Committee on Committees or the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System- and we members of the Opposition believe that until that Committee comes to certain conclusions it is premature to set up a new committee on expenditure. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  tried to see great virtue in a Committee on Public Expenditure, and that may well be the case. All I suggest, with all respect to the Government or to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  is that the role of this proposed Committee really has not been thought out. The Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System, which did produce an interim report of some kind, was not very favourably disposed towards the creation yet of a Public Expenditure Committee. 
If we are to set up a committee, surely we should have some idea of what its role is to be. In the parliamentary process, to some extent these issues relating to the control by Parliament over the expenditure become rather fundamental. This issue arose about 6 months . ago. There is a rather comforting democratic theory that Parliament has the power to control the public purse. Maybe, with some limitations, it does. I think Parliament has about the same ability to control the public purse as it has to govern the country. You cannot govern a country unless you have an Executive and you cannot really operate the public purse unless the Executive decides initially what policies and so on need to be implemented. It seems to me that this has not yet been decided. The Prime Minister has said much about expenditure and, before he got to his present position, about excessive expenditure. It will be rather interesting after 30 June 1976 to find out by how much he really has reduced expenditure by that time and, when he writes his Budget for 1976-77, to find out how much less that Budget is than was the sum he did not like for the current year. I hazard the guess that the deficit to 30 June 1976 is not going to be anything like what the Government so far has crowed about it being. We had an admission of that yesterday from the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I must say that 2 months ago I said to the Treasurer that I thought the deficit would be closer to $4,000m than the extravagant figure of $6,000m which he suggested at one stage. 
Be that as it may, one of the realities to be faced these days is the growing size of the community. After all, there is a deputation here in Canberra today whose intention is not that the Government should spend less. If anything its intention is that the Government should spend more. When one looks at the anatomy of total Commonwealth expenditure in Australia, one sees that one has not anything like the mobility needed to reduce it. I think the Parliament should be pretty careful in considering what it is going to scrutinise. I draw attention to the table on page 3 of the statements attached to the last Budget Speech. It shows that for 1975-76, out of a potential total estimated outlay of $2 1,1 77m, domestic outlays account for $4,5 15m. The rest, $ 16,662m, was what were called transfer payments and net advances. By far the biggest single item is payments made to the States. What sort of scrutiny does this Committee imagine it will have of expenditure which is not proposed in the next Budget? The Government provides the money but the expenditure is incurred by somebody else. The next greatest single item- and this is potentially nearly $6 billion- is cash benefits to persons. Surely, once the level of an age pension, child endowment or even a funeral benefit has been decided upon not much of the total expenditure can be scrutinised. The expenditure depends upon the living and the dead rather than upon any subsequent examination by an expenditure committee. 
With all due respect, what has not been clarified- I think the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  was beginning to touch upon this- is whether this Committee is to try to examine expenditure before it has happened, while it is happening or after it has happened. It is easy to examine expenditure after it has happened; whether it is useful is a different thing. But at least a committee designed to examine certain expenditures after they have happened is already in existence. I am a little intrigued to see that in paragraph 15 of this motion one of the suggestions for this new committee is that it should be provided with necessary staff, facilities and resources. I hope that something will be done to endow existing committees with the necessary staff, facilities and resources. My friend, the present  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  may say something about the present inadequacy. It may well be that the need to have a new committee arises out of some deficiencies in the provisioning for the committees already in existence. I submit that that is something that ought to have been contemplated also before the Government launched the proposal for this committee. 
I have no doubt that the Prime Minister has what might be called a fetish about expenditure and he thinks that it will somehow add virtue to himself if he goes down on record as having set up an expenditure committee. With all respect to the previous Prime Minister, he had a fetish or two. If he wanted something he thought he should get it so I suggest that presumably there is no difference between one Prime Minister and another. I do not think that the present incumbent of the office has adumbrated what he thinks the duties of this Committee properly should be. 
Like most people, I have not had a great deal of time to look into this matter, but I commend to the attention of the House and perhaps even to the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who, at least, is a very zealous Minister I know from longer personal experience than he has that Ministers Assisting the Treasurer can perform very useful tasks because a vast amount of work has to be done, much unfortunately minutiae rather than substantialthe second of several articles devoted to the question of public spending which appeared in the November issue of the very influential journal 

 The Banker. One article in particular draws attention to the British committees, one of which has the rather dubious title of PESC I do not know whether it is regarded as pesky but is initials are PESC it being, I think, the Public Expenditure Survey Committee. That Committee got into the realms that the honourable member for Curtin foreshadowed. If such a committee is to be useful and different from the Public Accounts Committee or the Estimates Committees of the House in their annual examination, it may begin to involve the very sacred realm of policy. Members of the Public Accounts Committee have always taken the view that while they may think that policy is foolish, it is not for them to comment on it. They are supposed to examine whether money spent in terms of that policy has been efficiently spent and properly deployed. 
According to the learned author of the article in  The Banker  the task of the functional subcommitteesthere is reference here to a subcommitteewas to be threefold. First it was to study the expenditure protections of the department or departments in its field, compare them with those of previous years and report on any major variations or important changes of policy and on the progress made by the departments towards clarifying their general objectives. The second task it was thought might emerge was to examine in as much detail as possible the public expenditure implications of the policy objectives chosen by Ministers and assess the success of the departments in attaining them. The third task was to inquire, on the lines of the Estimates Committee- the Expenditure Committee superseded the Estimates Committee in Britain- into departmental administration including effectiveness of management. How those 3 objectives can be essayed successfully without putting a critical finger on policy occasionally I do not know. Maybe in the long run there has to be more scrutiny by Parliament as such of policy if its democratic theory of control of the public purse is to have any meaning. Perhaps there will have to be more scrutiny and criticism of policy before it is implemented, bearing in mind that policy once begun can sometimes take years to achieve and, as I think this Government will soon learn, can also take years to reverse. There is a certain rigidity in government structures, particularly those which involve expenditure of the magnitudes I have outlined and where there is not nearly the amount of mobility in changing them that one thinks. 
The other difficulty that the writer of this article points to is that civil servants or departmental heads and their top echelons in particular become very skilful in evading the issues one wants to bring out rather than illuminating one upon them. I suggest that this again points to the need to have skilled staff at the outset and I believe it would be better so to endow the committees already set up. I do not denigrate in any sense the work that they have performed with limited facilities. 
Paragraph 16 of the motion proposes that the committee in selecting particular matters for investigation should take account of the investigations of other parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. Again, this seems to me to be a salutary reason why this Committee ought not to be established. I appeal to the Prime Minister, despite his zeal for creation, to take the sensible view that it would be better to let the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System examine the proposal for this committee and suggest what its role may be in relation to the Public Accounts Committee. I have not been a member of the new Public Accounts Committee for long- I was a member of a Public Accounts Committee a long time ago- but I find that a difficulty now is to get quorums for committee meetings because most members are on more than one committee. The committees tend to meet only when the House is not sitting which I think is correct. There are difficulties. How is the gentleman who is to be both the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee and a member of the expenditure committee to attend meetings of both these committees? I understand also that the  Chairman  of the expenditure committee is to have a seat on the Public Accounts Committee. Therefore the 2 committees will not be able to meet at the same time. I am not too sure that there will not be a certain duplicating of membership of both committees, other than the members necessarily designated. This seems to me to make the task more difficult. I would therefore appeal to the Government to reconsider the matter rather than to move hastily. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I must say that I am rather sad that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  blamed the previous Government for the slowness in the introduction of this measure. Unfortunately there has been very little haste in adjusting superannuation payments and, if I may say so, superannuation systems over a very long period and during the term of office of more than one kind of government. The honourable member for Herbert and I were members of what is known as the Jess Committee. Once the Jess Committee had put in its report some difficulty was experienced in finally getting the necessary legislation passed. I think the honourable gentleman ought to acknowledge that. After all a Labor government has actually been in office for a total of less than 3 of the last 26 years and the Labor Government in power in those years was scarcely in power in the sense of having the numbers in both Houses. 
I would say that governments have been reluctant in the past to make adjustments. I think that the sensible thing about the present Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill, to give it its proper title, is that, like the new Superannuation Bill, which is not yet through the Senate and in relation to which there does not seem to be any reason why it should not be through the other place, it now places the contributions on a flat rate basis rather than a unit basis. The honourable member knows, as well as most of us do, that the old Act was bedevilled by what were called pre- 1959 contributors and post- 1959 contributors. At least the post- 1959 contributors did take the unique step many years ago of relating contributions to a flat percentage, which I believe is the only sensible thing to be done. It seems to me that the more contributors there are to funds, the more the constituency of contributors changes over a period of time and the more uncertainty there is about the value of money the more it is impossible any longer to regard these sorts of schemes as actuarially based in any sense. I do not think they are, and the concepts of what is actuarial no doubt will change. 
I was a little intrigued to hear the words used by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in his speech. He was a man of few words. He must have noted Pistol's observation that men of few words are the best men although I hope he does not scorn to say his prayers lest he be thought a coward. He did say: 
I am bound to tell the House in simple candour that the Government would be anxious to stand back with the method of adjustment. 
In other words, there would be a distinct preference for a permanent and regular method of adjustment. I hoped that he would give us a foretaste of what that permanent and regular method of adjustment might be. I will give my view on the matter. I believe that once it is decided to have pensions on the present methodthat is, that there is a flat percentage and some part of the final payment, in fact a major part of the final benefit, is met by government rather than by contribution- they should be adjusted for changes in living costs and whether the consumer price index, average weekly earnings or the minimum wage is used the adjustment has to be applied to the whole pension. I think that one is drawing fine distinctions that cannot be sustained when one attempts to say that this is not so. One should not get into fine arguments about whether the adjustment is made only on the government's portion. 
I think the Minister might have explained the magical formula of 1.4 per cent at the end of his speech when I interjected. In my view it was simply a fiction to acknowledge that the Government paid roughly five-sevenths of the pension and the contributor two-sevenths, so to make the whole pension adjustable by one times the amount of the CPI 1.4 per cent was applied to the five-sevenths of the pension. This was equivalent to applying one times the CPI to the whole pension. I believe that is the right device to use and I do not know why the Government does not simply say that in future pensions will be automatically adjusted according to changes in the CPI, if the CPI survives. Instead, it says that it has suddenly done something which the previous Government shelved doing. I do not think it was shelved; I think it was simply the difficulty of getting anything sensible through the previous Parliament because of obstruction. But now, having the flat rate of contributions and believing that those who contribute to pension funds are entitled in their retirement to some standard that had relation to their end earnings, the only sensible thing to do is to adjust the whole payment by whatever one decides to be the fair living index reference. 
I hope that the Minister will get us out of our agony and that his simple candour will prevail upon his colleagues in the Cabinet as quickly as possible so that we will never again have to worry about these adjustments which will be automatically embedded in the legislation. This, I think, is the proper course to take. My colleague, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, referred to the complicated nature of these schemes. I have had to deal with them, once as a contributor in a State scheme many years ago, and certainly in Opposition and in government. In varying these schemes and in seeking to maintain the fiction that they were actuarially determined one certainly got into great complications when the scheme was on a unit basis rather than a flat rate basis. We overcame that situation and I believe that the remaining block should be removed as quickly as possible; that is, that the pension as a whole should be adjusted in relation to changes in living costs generally. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. It concerns a statement contained in the Government's submission to the National Wage Case concerning the terms of trade. The document stated that a sharp rise in import prices is 'a likely and worrying possibility'. Given that it appears that world inflation rates are declining, will the Treasurer explain on what grounds the Government believes that a sharp rise in import prices is a likely and worrying possibility and in what specific areas of import? 
I want to confine my remarks to the financial aspects of these measures. There are 2 Bills before us, Appropriation Bill (No. 3) which provides for an expenditure of $344m and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) which provides for an expenditure of $16 1.7m. The expenditure totals about $507m. We also have this other curious document called  Treasury Information Paper  entitled 'Statement of Savings Expected in Annual Appropriations'. I suppose no such document has ever been presented to this Parliament before. It purports to indicate that there will be savings of $266.8m under Appropriation Act (No. 1) and $21 1.4m under Appropriation Act (No. 2), a total of approximately $478m. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  rather glibly summed up the effect of these things in this way in his speech on these Appropriation Bills: ... the net effect of the additional appropriations I am proposing, and the savings we now expect to be realised, is an increase of $28m on the expenditures provided for in Appropriation Act (No. 1 ) and Appropriation Act (No. 2). 
Further on in his speech he said this: 
One would have to go back a long way to find a year when outlays were in fact less than the Budget estimated. 
With all respect, I suggest one can place no value whatever upon that document entitled 'Statement of Savings expected in Annual Appropriations'. I suggest that some of the savings are occasioned simply by the political paralysis that took place in this nation from about the time of the introduction of the Budget until 11 November last year. The savings are not savings in any legitimate sense; they simply mean that Government activity that ought to have been undertaken in fact was not undertaken and that the program has been slowed down. I suppose that is one way of saving. It is rather like the saving as a result of closing the National Library 2 nights a week and not worrying about the value of the books in the Library or the students endeavouring to use them. A few man hours can be saved by closing the Library. If these things are savings I suggest it is time that this nation had a look at the kind of philosophy that seems to underpin this Government's approach to financial affairs. 
I heard before this afternoon a rather pious justification of what this Government is supposed to have done given by a former Treasurer and Prime Minister. I would say, and I have said it before in this House, that there is no single economic act done by this Government since it came into office that in any way has improved the Australian economy. By that I do not mean that the Australian economy has not improved. I am saying that the improvement has nothing whatever to do with what this Government has done or has not done. It is about time we got away from this nonsense of attributing every malaise in the economy to the previous Government and every slight improvement that has taken place since the change to this Government. 
Unemployment existed when the Labor Party came into office. It was rising when we came into office and it continued to rise during our period of office. It is continuing to rise during the period of office of this Government. Investment has been stagnant in Australia for several years. The Jackson committee adverted to the fact that there had been a lack of enterprise and a lack of satisfactory investment in Australian manufacturing industry not just over the last several years but over the last 10 years. There has been a failure to face up to the structural changes that are implicit in the Australian economy. This failure to some extent has resulted in things like inflation and unemployment. I do not deny that when we were in Opposition we sought to get some political advantage out of unemployment. We are not the only Western country that has unemployment but we have not got it at as high a level as some other countries. We are not the only country with inflation at unsatisfactory rates. No government has been able to solve those 2 problems given that we want to maintain what is called a free economy and a market operated economy. 
The big single question always is the share of the total cake that goes to wage earners on one side and profit takers on the other side. I have never regarded the word 'profit' as a dirty word. Neither have I regarded it as a term very easy to explain. But as I have said before, I am getting a little nauseated by what is called ' free enterprise ' in this country and the insinuation that somehow it disappeared and now it is going miraculously to return. 
Whatever the Treasurer says about Budget expenditure this year actually being less than was expected when the Budget was drawn up, I want to say something about the 2 sides of this Budget transaction because they are what are involved in the deficit. Expenditure is going to be roughly the same as that set out when the Budget was drawn up. There is to be an increase of something like $2 8m. If the deficit is going to be greater than originally thought then it will be greater because taxation yields are less than was expected. One of the reasons that taxation yields are less than was expected is that wage rates have not risen at the rate anticipated this financial year. I do not know whether anybody consciously sought that to happen but I do believe that what is known as indexation had something to do with it. 
Like the former Prime Minister to whom I referred earlier, I think it is about time the Government came a bit cleaner about what it calls tax indexation. I have been a little bit intrigued to see certain proposals, not specific proposals; I can rely only upon the figures that I have seen quoted. Indexing personal taxation is said to be going to save $ 1,200m but indexing company tax is said to be going to save $ 1 ,000m to the companies. I contrast that with the fact that in the Budget it is estimated that we will collect $10 billion from personal taxation and slightly over $2 billion from company taxation. So it is said that there is to be a saving for individuals of $ 1,200m via indexation and $ 1,000m for companies. One does not need at this stage to go into how company profits are distributed among a relatively small number of companies getting large profits and a large number getting small profits. I think that again this is indicative of the approach. It will be nice if one happens to be in the groups that get indexed. It will not be so nice if one does not get indexed equally. One may be indexed unfairly and what about the sections that will not be indexed at all? If everything is indexed in fact maybe nothing will be indexed. I think it is time that there was a little clearer thinking on this subject. 
The Treasurer may brag this year that this is the first year that expenditure has fallen short of anticipation. I suggest that there may be reasons for that happening. However I would say that he is going to face great difficulties in preparing his first Budget in reconciling promises about tax reductions and promises that there is not an intention to cut back on Government expenditure drastically. I suggest that he will face a deficit of some magnitude before he starts. Candidly, I have never been a person who condemns a deficit. When loosely talked about it becomes a rather meaningless concept. In the last years of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government it was nice to talk about something that that Government called the domestic deficit. It no longer seems to be a popular thing. It is now called the local deficit. People can make the Labor Government's performance appear to be worse by relating deficits to the old domestic basis and ignoring it now. The former Treasurer's statement about the matter reveals a difference of some $700m. 
Surely one of the matters that is significant is how the deficit is financed. I think I have referred in this House to the process that is known as 'crowding out' whereby if you get to a certain level of activity and you engage in more government expenditure, in essence all that you do is to reduce private expenditure by as much or more. With all respect, I doubt whether we can necessarily be thought to have reached that stage in Australia at the moment. The Government seems to be going through a kind of trauma of its own as to whether a recovery has to be investment based or consumer based. The clever Treasurer the other evening made it an amalgam; it has to be a bit of both. I suppose it has to be a bit of both in the finish but I still think it is simple enough to suggest that no entrepreneur expands his capacity unless he believes that he is going to sell the additional products that his extended capacity will provide. There does not seem to be much doubt in the finish that a consumer induced expansion has to occur. 
I do not think the previous Government was given full credit for this: It was not until the end of January broadly that the effects of the new taxation deductions began to have effect. They did have some stimulus as far as consumer expenditure is concerned. On the other hand, there was not as great a stimulus as might have been desired because wages had not risen as fast as had been expected. In some respects some people would regard that as a good thing because they claim that it is the rate of wage increase that in the finish is the regulator of the rate of inflation. Again, I am not quite sure that it can be summed up as neatly as that; but that passes for logic on the other side of the chamber at the drop of a hat. Nevertheless, I submit that we do face a great problem in Australia in the next several months. 
The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  used glorious phrases during the general election about the Australian economy being on its knees. What that picturesque phrase was supposed to conjure up I do not quite know, but I submit it is sheer nonsense to suggest that the Australian economy is among the worst economies in the world. It is not. It is not as healthy as it ought to be but it is much healthier than are some other economies. It is not as unhealthy as it is simply because there was a different government to what we have now. Nor is the recovery likely to be as rapid as it should be because Government supporters literally do not know what they are doing and where they are going. 
I think it is time we got better answers at question time than we now get when Ministers say: 'Who are you to ask a question about inflation?' or. 'Who are you to ask a question about employment; you produced the greatest rates of inflation in history?'. That is not true. The greatest rate of inflation in Australian history occurred in 195 1 during the period of the Liberal-Country Party Government. Unemployment in Australia is now higher than it has ever been. Nobody denies that, but do Government supporters believe that they will reduce the unemployment figures to under 100 000 within a 12-month period? Do they unctuously claim that they need 3 years to govern? They denied us any right to govern for 3 years in order to carry through a consecutive plan. Despite what the previous speaker said about morality, I would say members of the Liberal Party as a whole should be the last people to speak about public morality. Such were the actions perpetrated by the Senate in the first place and by the Queen's representative in the second, that certain people who did have faith in the parliamentary system of government now threaten to take their own actions. I think at times that these sorts of situations ought to be contemplated when actions are taken. 
I think my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  began by referring to the events of 1 1 November. I say this- it is not the first time I have said it and it will not be the last time- that for this parliamentary system to be workable, no Senate can ever dare to think it can refuse Supply. I think it is time the Government examined the structure of expenditure, the continuity of expenditure, the permanence of employment, the permanence of commitment to pensioners and so on. It thinks you can take a few annual statements and say: 'Until you appropriate that dollar, you cannot do this or you cannot do that'. The second thing that would make parliamentary government workable in the future in Australia is that the numbers in the House of Representatives shall determine who the government will be. In 1976 nobody should take the powers that were discarded by the monarchy as far back as 1776, in fact constitutionally even earlier than that, and say that he can dismiss a government. The only feasible ground that the Governor-General had was that he was listening to the whispers in the Press gallery and the kind of nonsense that went on here about corruption and so on. 
I join with the previous speaker in suggesting that it is time we talked less about corruption and so on. The Labor Government was not corrupt. The Labor Government, in one or two of its actions, may have been foolish. I have said this before in other places and I repeat it. The Khemlani affair was the only leg upon which the Governor-General had to stand for his actions. If the Khemlani affair had not existed, he could not have done what he did. In any case, he should not have done what he did. He still should have acted on the advice of his Ministers. There are no prerogative powers. If the Australian parliamentary system is to be a modern working one, if it is to maintain the respect and the confidence of the ordinary people of Australia, the sooner the House of Representatives asserts its proper rights about financial powers and about the dismissal of Ministers, the better. It ought to be acknowledged on both sides of the House for the good of the institution as a whole. 
I want, as I have always done in this House, to indicate my root and branch objection to the whole principle of the investment allowance. It is nothing else but a naked subsidy to good old private enterprise. It is contrary to what are called market forces. I draw the attention of the Committee to what this allowance means. It is very well set out on page 28 of the explanatory memorandum. An example is given of a piece of plant which purports to cost $10,000. The investment allowance automatically treats the thing as though it had cost $14,000 and allows the purchaser to write off the hypothetical $4,000 straight away which, at company rates of tax, is near enough to a direct subsidy of $2,000. 
Who will really get the advantage of this. It is not the small man. We hear all this junk about putting in a section covering amounts of $500. If the Government were dinkum it would have doubled the $500 allowance and tapered the rest. Of course, this Government always gives the maximum advantage to those who are already best able to look after themselves. The lie is given directly enough in the Jackson Committee's report to the myth that it is only in the last couple of years that there has been a decline in fixed private investment. I refer to page 2 of the report, which states: 
The stagnation of fixed investment in constant prices is not new; it is of 10 years standing. Manufacturing has tried to maintain earnings by running down its capital stock. Much of the equipment in factories, consequently is old, inefficient and overdue for replacement: desirable technical innovations have been delayed: and physical conditions for the work force leave much to be desired. For 10 years the rate of growth in labour productivity of Australian manufacturing has been far below that achieved in Japan, France and Germany, and marginally below Britain and Canada. 
I point out that that state of affairs existed while the investment allowance was in force previously. Sometimes I wonder about the honesty of those people who support or claim to support private enterprise. I had the experience when I was Treasurer of being told by industry that it would much have preferred accelerated depreciation to the investment allowance. Yet- I would say for sheer political expediency- the Government has chosen to re-introduce the investment allowance. I am told by the experts that in the first year the investment allowance will cost revenue in the taxes that otherwise would have been collected if it were not allowable something like $470m. How do honourable members opposite reconcile that with the sort of stuff the Government is going to put over tonight about giving with one hand purportedly to the poorer families in the community and taking away from the same group in another way, that is, by the imposition of a levy on Medibank that is probably going to be something of the order of $ 1, 000m. 
Who will benefit to the greatest extent for this investment allowance? If honourable gentlemen look at the information that was provided in the last annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation they will find in the classification called 'public companies' that there were 10 661 public companies of which 668 or 0.65 per cent paid $95 lm out of the $ 1,300m in tax that was paid by all public companies. A table in that document has a classification for the depreciable assets held by those 668 companies out of the 10 000-odd companies and it shows total depreciable assets of $ 1 ,46 1 m of which $ 1 ,077m or three-quarters is held by those 668 companies or that 0.65 per cent of the companies whose taxable profits exceed $lm. It is contrary to any logic that with something that costs $1,000 or $100,000 one should go through the fiction of treating it for taxation purposes as though it cost $14,000, $140,000 or in many cases $1,400,000 and immediately allow that $4,000, $40,000, $400,000 or whatever it is to be written off what would otherwise have been the proper taxable profits for that year. 
Why should this particular group of taxpayers be treated differently? I heard an honourable member opposite speak as though there was some virtue in having a deferred tax. It is tax that ultimately legitimately has to be paid. We would all like to defer the payment of our taxes. The same sort of thing applies to paying company tax in advance. Why should a company not pay its tax in advance in just the same way as the PA YE earner pays tax in advance? He pays his tax as he goes along, but sympathy is sought in the name of private enterprise for the giving of concessional treatment to particular sections, of taxpayers. Candidly that is what the investment allowance is. It is a fiction. It is using the Income Tax Act to do something that ought to be done openly a different way. Clause 10 takes 20 pages- from page 9 to page 29- of the Bill to put in all the qualifications, exemptions, exclusions, inclusions, tapered rates and so on. However, the net effect of it is to increase the potential Budget deficit next year by something of the magnitude of$500m 
For the last two or three years we have heard a lot of bellyaching about this deficit, as though it is the great iniquity, and a lot of froth about private enterprise and allowing market forces to prevail. The investment allowance is the contrary to market forces. It is undiscriminatory. There might be a case for giving a concession, for instance, if the Government wanted to encourage a particular industry to a particular place. But it seems that what will happen here is that some investment that otherwise would not have taken place will now take place, and it may be more than we need. Most of the investment that would have taken place will take place and get the advantage of the investment allowance, to the cost to the revenue of the magnitudes that I have said. 
It is time that the Parliament started to look objectively at tax measures and to see that what the Government is doing here is giving a naked subsidy. When subsidies are given they should not be concealed; they should be revealed. The investment allowance conceals the facts. It goes equally to the brewery, whether you want the brewery to expand, as it does to some other industry that you do want to expand. Maybe your ability to move in one direction is limited because you have been too indiscriminate in the general way in which you have applied it. This sort of thing may have a kind of yo-yo effect on the economy. It ought to be an annual enact: ment, not promised for several years forward. Let industry wait on its toes a bit rather than being featherbedded for the next 5 years. Maybe the featherbedding will be at the expense of a lot of other general welfare in the community. I ask the Committee to look closely at who will be the beneficiaries of the major part of this $470m. It will be the small group of fewer than 1000 companies which are already earning profits in excess of $lm a year. The Government is prepared to make life easier for them and at the same time, tonight, to make life tougher for the majority of  131A  million Australians. 
I must say that I am a little bit surprised that this matter should be resumed at 10.20 p.m. when at 10.30 p.m. the question will be put that the House adjourn. However, I am the next on the list to speak so nobly I step into the breach. But I think that the way in which the Government conducts the business of the House is a little casual. 
If I may I will plunge into the substance of the economic statement made the other night by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I want to separate what seemed to me to be the major aspects of his statement. First of all, the statement on the one hand makes substantial improvements in respect of child endowment and on the other hand it takes away the tax rebate system for children. Secondly it purports to give its own variant of what it calls indexation of the tax schedules. Thirdly, it imposes a new tax under the guise of sustaining Medibank. 
This afternoon I listened to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who chided one of my colleagues for saying that he made 4 propositions all of which were contradictory. I would suggest that the basic measures that were encompassed in this statement are contradictory as far as any improvement of the economy is concerned. First of all I want to take the question of child endowment versus tax indexation. We are told that the combined cost of child endowment plus the tax rebate system is of the order of $ 1,021m of which something like $240m, or about one-quarter, is attributable to the child endowment bill and something like three-quarters of the total cost is attributable to the tax rebate system. These 2 items make up the net cost of $ 1,021m that was given in the Treasurer's speech. It is now proposed that we should introduce a child endowment system that will have approximately the same total cost but will distribute the overall benefits somewhat differently. It rather surprised me that the Liberal Party, of all parties, would introduce this system the way it has done. 
I was not shocked; I was rather surprised, particularly when I listened to the sorts of arguments that were used in this House about 18 months ago when the new system of taxation was introduced. I simply make the point rather categorically that from now on the difference between married and single taxpayers as far as the tax system is concerned is no longer contained within the tax schedule but is contained within the payments for child endowment. I do not know whether this is an equitable way in which to meet this circumstantial difference. All I suggest is that not enough credit has been given or attention paid- and I think this is implicit enough in the kind of explanation that was given in the Treasurer's speech- to what was done recently by the tax rebate system that was supposed to operate, and will operate certainly for the year ended June 1976, but will be terminated with respect to children as from 1 July 1976. I would have thought that the logical step would have been not only to remove deductions for children from the tax schedules but also to have removed deductions for wives from the tax schedules and put some kind of cash benefit upon what a wife is supposed to be worth. 
-Exactly. All I am suggesting is that as usual the Government has not - 
-The Government believes that we can value children but it does not believe that we can value wives. All I suggest is that this situation simply shows the hotchpotch that can emerge if things are done in haste. When one looks at the - 
-I think they are 2 different arguments but I do not think that the Government has examined one of them. I am trying to suggest that the Government has been pushed hurriedly into doing something - 

 - Mrs Crean does not have to because we have no children left of a dependent age. But I still have her apparently valued as a tax rebate to me of $500. 
I thank the House for the courtesy of allowing me to finish my speech this evening. I have another question to ask: Given that the child endowment costs approximately the same as the child endowment plus the rebate, what will be the effect on 1 July when the tax deductions no longer apply for children? There will be an immediate withdrawal of take home pay to the extent of $780m. 
-No, at the annual rate. Surely to goodness you have enough intelligence to know that I am talking about an annual rate. They are your sums after all, not mine. 
You cannot. Anyway, I hope you do not. This seems to me to be one of the matters which has not been thought through. Every married taxpayer will lose his entitlement to claim for children and therefore his weekly deductions will be so much less. Carried through on an annual basis it will mean a withdrawal of $780m, matched presumably by that sum being transferred to the mothers of the community. I suggest that it is a bit hard to say whether there will be much net difference in the consumer - 
The honourable member can argue this later. The other thing I want to talk about is what I call the Government's swindle of indexation. I heard it suggested here this afternoon that it means that people will be paying 13 per cent less in taxation. 
The former Prime Minister said that this afternoon in his speech. I hope that the honourable member believes that he is wrong. I have suggested here on other occasions that tax schedules should be adjusted annually. It may be done by the mythology of calling it indexation. If I may say so, it is a curious form of indexation. The Government chooses its own figure- 13 per cent- which is the consumer price index minus the effects of indirect tax. That is a dubious kind of application, to say the least. The Treasurer chooses as his prime example an income that may go from $10,000 to $1 1,300. What he does not say is that something like two-thirds of the population earn less than $ 10,000 anyway. It is nice to be able to choose your own example. What the Treasurer does not indicate, although he does it in the kind of odd lines, is that if a person happens to be somewhere between his range of $5,000 to $10,000 less than $1 1,300 there will be no change in his marginal rate of tax at all. The main advantage is in the lower down adjustments. Again, the effect of this indexation is to give the greatest advantage to the highest incomes. 
-Well, the honourable member should work it through. All the junk about average rates being the same as before is, if I may say so, sheer nonsense. It is not the case that average rates for higher up will be somewhat less but rates for lower down will be much the same. Candidly, I do not know how the Government sells this kind of junk. Honourable members should consider this themselves. If a person's income goes up from $10,000 to $1 1,300 he still pays additional tax on the $1,300, whatever the case may be. 
I desire to address a question to the Treasurer. Both he and the  Deputy  Prime Minister have foreshadowed changes in the Export Market Development Grants Act of 1974 and have forecast cuts in expenditure for 1976-77. Is the Minister aware that the thrust of the present scheme is to foster initiative by exporters in the development of new markets? It is not simply an export subsidy program and it is only of modest proportions. In view of the Treasurer's stated intention to foster initiative and get the economy moving with as little Government intervention as possible, can he explain the logic of cutting this modest program? 
-My comment is more in the nature of a question to the Minister. I am wondering whether he is protecting the integrity of local stations or the immunity of those stations from outside program intervention. If I may use a simple example, there is always a lot of argument that if one can see a football match called Australian Rules as against locals going to their own match, there is some difficulty economically. I can understand that one program can invade another, but I am wondering about the nature of the programs invading or the integrity of the local areas in relation to that invasion. Perhaps I have not put the point as clearly as I might have, but this seems to me to be a fairly fundamental question. I take the example of Geelong in the electorate of Corio. If one is to develop local drama, or something of the kind, on a regional station and it is suddenly invaded by  Power Without Glory- to  use the great classic of the moment- is that detrimental? Is that what the Minister is seeking to protect here? 
I understand that we are taking these amendments  in globo.  My concern mainly centres on television and not broadcasting. I want to draw attention particularly to new section 105AAC and to amendments Nos (7) and (8). Amendment No. (7) reads as follows: 
Clause 7, page 3, after sub-section (3) insert the following sub-sections: '(3a) In making recommendations under this section the Board shall have regard to the principle that subject to the necessity of ensuring that the needs of the community in the area concerned are adequately served, it is desirable that a broadcasting translator . . . 
I understand that this applies to television and not to broadcasting. I ask: How does the Board decide upon the necessity of ensuring that the needs of the community in the area are adequately served? Amendment No. (9) seeks to add a sub-section which reads: '(2a) Where the Board is of the opinion that satisfactory reception of television programs from a commercial television station or commercial television stations is being obtained in an area, but the Board is also of the opinion that those programs do not adequately serve the interests of the community in that area by reason of the fact that they are designed to serve primarily the different interests of a community in another area, the Board may recommend that a licence be granted . . . 
How does the Board decide where there is a conflict between 2 towns, for example between Ballarat and Geelong, to take the State which I know best, or between Lismore and Grafton? The Bill refers to television. I think that everybody accepts that there is a difference between television and broadcasting. A broadcasting station can almost be set up in a back room but a television station cannot be set up in a back room and a commercial television station cannot be set up unless it has an assurance of advertisers. I ask again: How does the Board decide between what I referred to earlier as the immunity of the area from an invasion of programs and the integrity of the local area to maintain its own programs? This seems to me to be something which is essential in each of these amendments. I do not know the reason why, after due deliberation, the Government had to make these amendments but now that they are before the Committee I think that we are entitled to know on what sort of grounds the Board will decide in these very intricate situations. 
-At the outset I must say that I do not expect as much of budgets as other people seem to. I have long thought that believing that something you do on the second or third Tuesday in August will irrevocably set the pattern for the economy for the following 12 months is sheer nonsense. By and large, a Budget at best is a statement of projected receipts and expenditure. These days an inordinate amount of discussion is devoted to the difference between the two, to what is rather generally known as the deficit. Candidly, I would not have thought that it would matter a great deal if this Budget had a deficit of $3 billion instead of the projected $2.6 billion when one looks at some of the things that might have been done. Another $400m could have been spent on things plenty of people can think of or tax collection could by $400m less, which in some respects can have the same effect. 
Mainly I want to direct my remarks to this famous document, Budget Paper No. 2, which has already been misquoted and misunderstood. Some of the more relevant parts of it have even been ignored entirely up to date. I would like to say one or two things about the parts of that paper that seem to me to be the subject of argument at the moment. The rate of increase in employment this year is projected at something like 2 per cent. In numbers, apparently that means an increase in total employment by the end of June 1977 of about 100 000 people. It is easy to say these things but I think occasionally one should have some concept of reality. 
For the benefit of the House I want to cite some figures for total civilian employment in Australia covering a 5-year period which embraces the life of the previous Labor Government and some 2 years of the Government prior to that. A kind of myth has developed that all the ills that have developed have been due to the last 3 years of the Labor Government and that somehow prior to that was a golden age. In the 5 years from 1971 to 1976-the period to June 1973 can largely be identified with the present Government in its then period of office from 1971 to 1972- male employment, which is the major part of total employment in Australia, rose from 2 924 000 to 2 940 000-an increase of about 16 000 or something like  ¥2  per cent. From 1972 to 1973 it increased by 44 000, from 2 940 000 to 2 985 000-about  1 1/2  per cent. But in the first year of the 'terrible Labor Government'- that is, from 1973 to 1974- total male employment increased from 2 985 000 to 3 068 000-a rise of 83 000, or more in that single year than for the 2 previous years put together. 
Let me say to those who decry what happened under the Labor Government, that in 1973, the first full year of the Labor Government, more houses were built in Australia than ever before in Australia's history and there were more people in total employment in manufacturing than in any previous period. The decline has taken place since. Of course it is nice and easy to attribute all of that decline to the Labor Government as though we are the only country in the world with either unemployment or inflation as a problem. The sooner honourable members opposite disabuse themselves of that mythology, the sooner they will realise how difficult it will be for them to do some of the things they claim they are doing and some of the things that are called the 'assumptions' of this Budget in Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget Speech. 
Government employment in the 5 years from 1971 to 1976 increased by something like 18 per cent whereas total male employment in the private sector of the economy increased by only  3Vi  per cent over that period. We still claim that the basic work unit in the community is the married male. There are more of them in employment than any others, but their prospects are not very rosy. It will not be easy to find 100 000 more jobs, which is what a 2 per cent increase means, putting faith basically in the private sector. It will be a task of much greater significance than the Government seems to estimate. In Statement No. 2 the Treasurer said in a quaint way: 
The longevity of recovery therefore depends on the achievement of steady, sustainable growth in both private consumption and private fixed capital expenditure. 
I am not too sure sometimes what is meant by 'consumption', just as I do not think there is always great clarity as to what is meant by 'savings'. We have not quite discarded the Keynesian concept that savings equal investment and people do not save in the abstract unless there is something into which to put their savings which somebody else invests for them. 
On page 6 of Statement No. 2 there is this comment: 
The introduction of Medibank resulted in a smaller proportion of hospital services being recorded in private final consumption, and a larger proportion in government final consumption; this has had the effect of reducing the  level  of recorded consumption since the September quarter 1 975. 
It would seem to me that the obverse of that is that when the new Medibank scheme begins to operate from 1 October, this will reflect in statistics as an increase in consumption. Is that the sort of increase in consumption that the Government believes will lead to this longevity of recovery and will stimulate the economy? It seems to me that we have to look a little more deeply at some of the analysis in this document. Let me start with one statement on page 25 which says: 
In their nature monetary forecasts tend to be even more fallible than activity forecasts. 
I have tried to suggest already that one of the activity forecasts of a 2 per cent lift in total employment between now and the end of June 1977 seems to me to be a very fallible concept. Equally, there is a sort of reliance on this blessed quantity called M3. I am not too sure whether everybody knows what M3 is, but broadly it is the total of trading bank deposits, the total of savings bank deposits and the total of cash and notes in the hands of the community. At 30 June 1976 the aggregate was near enough to $33,000m. The projected increase in M3- that is, in the volume of those rather curious figures that are not self-generating but which tend to be generated upon- is 10 per cent to 12 per cent. An increase of 10 per cent would be of the order of $3,300m and an increase of 12 per cent would be of the order of $4,000m- a not very small difference of $700m. But there will be a lot of difference in the consequences to the economy as one or other eventuates. 
What are called the 'assumptions' on page 24 seem to me, instead of being realistic and fundamental concepts, to be a little bit of what might be called 'by guess and by God'. Even the weather, for which God rather than the Government can claim responsibility, is a factor as it is stated that 'seasonal conditions will permit little if any increase in aggregate farm production'. That is one of the assumptions underlying the Budget. It seems to me that the critical one which underpins all of them is the fifth one: 
Some form of partial indexation of award wages will continue, as will restraint in increases in other wages and conditions of employment. 
It goes on to underline all of the 5 assumptions. I do not have time to quote all of them. Of all these assumptions the most crucial is clearly the last one. In other words, all the eggs are in the basket of partial indexation. I believe that the union movement, agreeing to indexation under the previous Government, was the fundamental factor that led to the relative decline in aggregate wages for the year and to some hope that inflation is beginning to lessen. But that, in essence, was some kind of compact of faith, if you like, between employer and employee, with the Government holding the ring fairly. But what will happen when the Government seems to be going in to hold the ring unfairly- that is, in favour of the employers' side, or profits if you like, against wages? There is no certainty that that great underpinning assumption can be relied upon. I believe that the Government has got to come clean in this regard. How 'impartial' is it going to be in its definition of the meaning of 'partial indexation'? All the evidence to date throws a lot of doubt- at least in the minds of the unions- on the impartiality of the Government in determining that fundamental part of the equation. 
The other assumption, which seems to me to be a very dubious assumption in these days, is that there can be an increase in total consumption in real terms at the same time as there is a decline in wages in real terms. After all, whether honourable members opposite like it or not, wages are still the biggest single source of consumer demand. It seems to me again to be putting a lot of faith in savings being spent. After all, 18 months ago it was apparently a virtue to save; now apparently it is a virtue not to save, in the interests of the economy. I do not believe that enough study has been made in this country, or in other parts of the world for that matter, as to what might be called the anatomy of saving. As I said earlier, people may save for a rainy day but, as I have said before, in the words of the poet T. S. Eliot, 'people are ready to invest but most people expect dividends' or returns. The same thing goes for people who save; they expect to get some return on the investment. Last year the Government induced them to do so by means of issuing a new kind of savings bond, on which it offered an interest rate of 10.5 per cent compared with the going rate of 9.5 per cent. Apparently the people who took advantage of that offer can cash in their savings bonds after another month, or if they hold them until the end of this month. Maybe there will be a tremendous surge to add to the lower real earnings out of savings. Of course, the mistake may be made that the people who have the savings are different from the wage earners. I think too many easy assumptions are made in that regard. 
When one looks at the Budget document to ascertain what induced the increase in private consumption last year, one finds that in the first half of 1975 it 'was supported by some expansion in exports but also, and more significantly, by a strong growth in total government expenditure, which accounted for half of the increase in domestic expenditure in that half-year period'. That statement can be found on page 6 of Statement No. 2. While it is easy to put together those assumptions in the nice neat parcel in which one finds them on page 24 of Statement No. 2, it seems to me that there has not been enough homework done on what might underpin it. Some reference is made for instance to what might happen in overseas countries. If there is a lift in their economies, that will impact upon the fortunes of the Australian economy. 
To return to the first of those assumptions, 'the general stance of monetary policy will be such that the banking system is able to meet the financial needs of the economy while being less than fully accommodating to the inflationary demands'. What does that mean? Does that mean that if the Government or the bank managers believe that the credit demands on a particular firm are due to the fact that it is paying higher wages than they think it should, it will not be so easy to give that firm bank accommodation? But if they think that it is genuinely investing in expansion they may be more disposed to do so. While it is an easy assumption to make, I do not think that in the realities of practice this sort of thing is thought through at all. 
Who put this easy document together? It is always interesting to ponder on that question. For a considerable number of years I have found it to be a central part of the anatomy of the Budget, but very little discussion is ever heard about it, other than the picking out, as have already been picked out, one or two figures to gloat upon if you want to, and to defend if you have to. How to get back to the real things that are going to make happen in Australia what the Treasurer, and presumably the Government, see as the longevity of recovery in Australia- that is, the achievement of steady and substantial growth in both private consumption and private fixed capital expenditure- has not, I believe, been worked out in depth. In these days it is common to say, of course, that we can always have a 'mini Budget'. The only virtue I see in a 'mini Budget' is that at least it implies that 'maxi Budgets' are not as good as some people think they are. The lesson has to be learned in Australia that the Australian economy can change, for reasons internal and external, in the course of a year. It may be necessary to change tack sustantially within that year, and I think the sooner that lesson is learned the better it will be for the level of discussion in this House. 
Generally I am not in favour of censorship, but I believe that the television program called  Alvin Purple  has neither talent nor wit. I must say that I am a bit disappointed. I watch the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television programs. I sometimes say that the best programs shown on ABC television are those which come from the British Broadcasting Commission. Nevertheless, I could find no merit whatever in the program  Alvin Purple.  I do not know what it cost to produce or what the principal actor receives. I have seen only one episode of the series. Fortunately I saw it in black and white and not in colour. 
I repeat what I said before: I am not in favour of censorship. However, I find it a little hard to believe that people of so-called talent as actors could perpetrate what I saw in the second or third episode of the  Alvin Purple  series. I hope that we have potential for better things from both our actors and producers. I found neither wit nor talent in what I saw of the second or third episode of the series whichever it was. I do not normally agree with censorship. I think that there are times when producers and those who call themselves actors should at least have a little cognisance of the people for whom they are producing and the audience which will witness their work. I say with all respect that I am not normally in favour of censorship, but I wish sometimes that those in charge of productions would have a little cognisance of the intelligence of the people for whom they are supposed to be producing. 
-If I may say so,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you have been very indulgent to the previous  speaker.  I would at least like to indicate the title of this Bill. It is to grant financial assistance to the States in connection with expenditure of a capital nature and to authorise the borrowings of certain moneys by the Commonwealth. My friend who has just spoken is comparatively a new boy to this place. Nevertheless, I think it is pretty rough, candidly, if the honourable member can make what is really a Budget speech on what is a specific Bill. I would like to confine myself as far as possible to the terms of this Bill and to put it in what I think is its rather narrow perspective. I would like to begin with much the same 2 paragraphs as my friend began with, although he got a long way away from them in the end. I quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson): 
The effect of the grants is to relieve the States of debt charges which they would otherwise have to pay, and the f rants accordingly have a substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial positions. 
I would like to take those latter works of his and say that I dispute that this measure has any very substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial positions. If I may go further and quote the next phrase, as did my friend: 
The grants were introduced to help the States ' finance works such as schools, police buildings . . . 
At least I admire the conjunction. I suggest that the less you spend on school buildings the more likely you will have to spend on police buildings. It is a magnificent juxtaposition of the incongruous, to use Haslett's phrase, if I may, and the like which has not been described beyond that point. 
I think it is time we got a little perspective in this House about the financial measures that come before it. One thing that the House is presently debating is Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). I suggest that within a few minutes of the House disposing of that it will go on with Appropriation Bill (No. 2) which it will appropriately dispose of, probably without debate. 
I would hope so. I have no great respect for the Senate in financial matters. I hope that sometimes people will read section 53 of the Constitution intelligently and will not allow for the implication of words that are not there and will not distort the meaning of words that are there. My understanding of the section is that when it says that in all other matters the Senate has equal powers it means in the paramountcy of financial matters that it has no powers and to my mind that is the sensible interpretation. But the highest legal luminary, if I may say so, is lending credence to the belief- because the words are not there- that the Senate may not reject a money Bill, therefore the words could be there. The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  who is interjecting belonged to the Mother of Parliaments- the House of Commons- which long ago sensibly established which House should have paramountcy in financial matters. When a House starts to invoke in 1975, and carries into 1 976, powers that were discarded nearly 200 years ago in the Parliament on which we model ourselves I think it is time that this House asserted its rights against the other place. 
I will keep to the Bill in this respect, that it provides in one column for a sum of $452m and in another column for a sum of $226m which add up to the grand total, as is described specifically in clause 6 of the Bill, of $678m. First, I would like to put that total in the perspective of total Commonwealth expenditure of $24 billion- $24,000m. Again putting this in perspective, Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) provides for a total expenditure of $7.5 billion, or to be precise an amount of $7,502,130,000. Appropriation Bill (No. 2) provides for total expenditure on the capital account, and if I may say so, separated again only for the reasons that the Senate has been more strenuous in defending what it thinks are its rights against the House of Representatives in that it separates what are called ordinary annual expenditure and capital expenditure. The sum in that Bill is $ 1 ,725,446,000. Out of a total of $24 billion the 2 appropriations amount to $9.2 billion. If I may say so, that is the only sanction this Parliament, in both places, gives in a total expenditure of $24 billion. To those who are prepared to defend what another place did on a recent occasion I say that all you do in these 2 Bills is basically to legitimise the payment of money to people whom you cannot sack, payments to the defence forces which you do not want to reduce, but the remainder goes on independently of either House. I again think this is one good reason why section 53 needs reassessment. 
In relation to this measure- and I come back to this- does anybody candidly believe that the measure that is now before us has the effect which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  underlines- a substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial position? Let me look at the voluminous material that is provided with the Budget papers. I think a lot of people have read it. One of the annual Budget documents- it has been given now for a good number of years- Budget Paper No. 7 headed 'Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities 1976-77'. It shows on page 6 the grand total of funds for States and local government authorities on a net basis estimated for 1976-77 at $9,077m. If I may say so again, the amount of $452m shown in column 2 of this Bill is 5 per cent of the total. I hope some honourable members will read the curious clause in this Bill, clause 6 (2 ). It reads: 
The aggregate amount of moneys that may be borrowed under sub-section ( 1 ) is reduced by the sum of the moneys 
These words are carefully in brackets - (if any) borrowed by the Treasurer in accordance with subsection 6 ( 1) of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act 1976 . . . 
Apparently all honourable members opposite are sitting there piously substantiating the Treasurer's belief that this measure will 'have a substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial position'. As the apostrophe is placed after the s it means all the States. Candidly I suggest this is nonsense. What we are getting in this House is confusion over bookkeeping. Would anybody suggest that if this measure were not before us there would not be some difference in some of these other categories of expenditure? But because it is nicely segregated- and I think segregation in this country as in another place is confusion rather than illumination honourable members opposite are saying patronisingly, 'We are bearing the interest burden for the States'. If the Government did not do this it would have to give the States more money under some of those other categories rather interestingly described in this document as 'specific payments', 'general revenue assessment' and 'general purpose capital funds'. I suggest we ought to get away from humbug in these debates. I think the honourable member for Balaclava could well have spent his time debating the substance of this measure rather than preparing a speech he was not able to make or has yet not been able to make on the Budget. 
This legislation is a very small part of the totality of government expenditure. It may be a significant contribution to the starved States but I can think of no more humbug at the moment than this doctrine that has been called new federalism. I happen to believe, and believe quite categorically, that uniform taxation is the most sensible thing ever introduced as far as Australia is concerned. 
-I thought the honourable member would not have needed to ask that question. At least it makes it so that any individual in Australia whether he is in Tasmania, the northern parts of Western Australia, Queensland or in the electorate of the honourable member, given the same economic circumstance, makes the same total contribution in terms of what is regarded as the most equitable tax of all- personal income tax. If the honourable member needs to ask why, I would like to know what the contrary explanation is. I suggest to honourable members opposite that at the moment the States, upon which they are trying to foist this system, are anything but satisfied about the likely consequences. 
If my friend wants to argue this, I am prepared to talk quietly and privately to him at a later stage. In my limited time, I affirm what I said earlier, namely, that uniform taxation in my view is the most sensible thing for Australia. I do not think we can get away from this in the tax field any more than we can in the economic field. We heard a lot of talk yesterday about a wage policy. In the finish, that boils down to how we divide the total economic product equitably between those who are employees and those who are employers. There is no easy final answer to that, nor is there any easy, simple answer to what the States should get out of the total financial cake which I believe is most sensibly collected in a single hand at the Australian level. 
I repeat that the measure before us now is a piece of bookkeeping. It is no more and no less than that. The Treasurer's pious declaration that it has a substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial position is incorrect. I hope that any other honourable member who follows me in this debate will not talk about the employment level and what happened somewhere else, but will justify the statement that this measure has a substantial beneficial effect on the States' collective financial position. I would suggest this is nonsense. The States will never be satisfied. Nobody is ever satisfied when he does not have to collect but only has to spend. When I was a student many years ago in the Melbourne University when this sort of thing was emerging, my lecturers used to describe something they called the vicious principle. The vicious principle was that those who spent money should be responsible for collecting it. I think that this would be the case in a working federal system. I hope that this is what this Parliament is about. If I may go back to where I began, let me say that I am not quite sure that the Senate is deeply appreciative of the intricacies of a federal system. But in a federal system, the acknowledgment is that God in his infinite wisdom- if there are believers in this place- did not bestow economic resources quite equally among all the States. The federal system is one of the means of using the strength of the stronger to help the deficiencies of the weaker. 
My friend opposite said that this is socialism. I cannot see anything wrong with that as a principle. Candidly, I believe that the whole of democratic government in the finish is about equity and fair sharing. We can get into all sorts of interesting debates, when there are not extreme poverty and extreme wealth, as to whether direct taxes are necessarily the best form of raising revenue. I would be interested some time to discuss that thesis. Nevertheless, the game is about equity. I am sorry that the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Balaclava, has now left the chamber. He referred to the subject of currency devaluation. I happen to have been a former Treasurer. I believe that the present Treasurer could come into the House tonight and emphatically deny that he was going to alter the exchange rate but tomorrow he might have to do that. I do not think that is the situation. But on the other hand, I do not think it is a thing that should become the subject of speculation in the community. I believe that what we take as the sensible interpreter of economic facts in Australia, the  Australian Financial Review,  has been very recreant in its treatment of this sensitive issue. I believe that even sacred cows can occasionally tread on the wrong toes and the wrong people can be advantaged by speculation concerning changes in exchange rates. I think that, if anything, the speculators lean in the direction of the wrong distribution of the total social product. 
As far as this measure is concerned, I do not think that the thesis is proved that it will have a substantial beneficial effect on the financial situation of the States. The elements are still the same. The States have a variety of needs. They are like everybody else. They have to do more than they have the resources to provide. But we happen to be the ones handing out the money. 
-In the absence of the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee I wish simply to say- I am sure the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  will agree- that there is some conflict of interest here as to how this was done. Nobody is debating the tribute due to him for getting these relics here, but he has bragged before about being an expert in Treasury procedure, and I think there was some irregularity in the way the financial transaction was carried out. I simply indicate on behalf of the Committee that all we were doing was observing how the thing should have been done. 
-I support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  For the benefit of my friend .the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  I would point out that, as he says, we are not opposing the Bill. We do disagree with the suggestion that the Australian Telecommunications Commission has to go on to the loan market. In other words, we are disputing in some respects the borrowing mechanism in the Bill before us. I point out also that the Bill, as it is framed before us, is a very flimsy thing comprising of only 1  lh-  pages and the sum of $200m- the proposed loan- is not even mentioned in the Bill. It would seem to me that the Bill should not have been necessary because the borrowing could have stood under section 72 of the Telecommunications Act except, of course, that this Government now wants to remove from clause 3 the word 'Australia' and insert the words 'the Commonwealth' and it also wants to protect itself against a technicality that apparently was not thought of at the time section 72- was framed that unless section 80 is amended the borrowings might in some circumstance become liable for certain stamp duties that could be charged by the States. It would seem to me that in essence all the Commission has to do is, with the approval of the Treasurer, borrow moneys that are from time to time necessary for the performance of its functions. 
The Bill does not say how the money shall be borrowed- whether the Commission has to go on to the loan market or whether it can do it directly by borrowing from the Treasurer. The honourable member for Wimmera read from the document that was brought down with the Budget headed  Australian Telecommunications Commission, Service and Business Outlook for 1976-77.  The document points out that the Act specifies that the financial policies to be followed by the Australian Telecommunications Commission are as follows: 
Revenues to cover all operating expenditure; and at least 50 per cent of capital expenditure to be financed internally by the Commission. 
As the Commission has pointed out, of the total capital expenditure of $9 10m anticipated this year, some 54 per cent of that amount is being found internally. There is a nice diagram at the end of this Telecom loan brochure which I suppose passes for the equivalent of a prospectus about the loan. It shows that in essence 54 per cent of the capital funds amounting to $9 10m will be generated from internal operations. So at least the Commission is meeting the stricture or requirement that at least 50 per cent of all borrowings are to. be found internally. The other 46 per cent of capital funds is to be found in 2 ways. In a near enough to half and half situation- it is 22 per cent to 24 per cent, which is not very much different from a 50-50 basis- 22 per cent of the required money, amounting to $200m will be borrowed on the domestic market and 24 per cent, which presumably is an amount in excess of $200m will be borrowed from the Treasury. It would have been quite possible for the whole 46 per cent of the part of the funds not found internally to be financed directly by borrowings from the Treasury. Of course, had that been done the effect would have been, as my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide pointed out, that the deficit would have amounted to $200m more than the $2.6 billion, which is the deficit nominated in the Budget Speech. 
I think I said during the course of my speech on the Budget that it would not seem to me to matter greatly whether the deficit was as high as $3 billion instead of the nice sum of $2.6 billion. One can think of things upon which the additional $400m could be spent. Instead of this $200m being found by Telecom going on to the loan market directly, it could have been funded directly from the Budget. The effect for Telecom would have been exactly the same because the Treasury would have charged interest at approximately the same rate as the interest on the money borrowed. The Commission might have been saved the brokerage that it incurs on the raising of the loan. That brokerage or commission could range up to one-quarter of a per cent which, in aggregate, would mean an amount of something like $500,000. This would be the cost or the amount deducted from the loan if it were raised by members of the various stock exchanges. 
The first pan of the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide, goes to the heart of this question of the Budget deficit. As he says, the previous Opposition made great play, almost month by month, as to what the deficiencies were and it forecast all sons of portents as a consequence. One of the principal critics who indulged in that sort of excess was the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I must say that I am pleased to see that, under the tutelage of the Treasury, the Treasurer is learning to be a little more responsible. I quote from Treasury Statement No. 166 the words which I think were quoted also by the honourable member for Adelaide. The Treasurer is a great issuer of statements. One hundred and sixty-six statements in less than 7 months of Government is not a bad performance. This statement by the Treasurer, the Honourable Phillip Lynch, is headed  Statement of Financial Transactions- August 1976,  that is, for the first 2 months of the new financial year. It states: 

 Mr Lynch said, however, that for seasonal and other reasons (including the factors mentioned above) the figures for the first 2 months did not provide a meaningful guide to the likely deficit for 1 976-77 as a whole. 
I might say that objectively anyone who claimed to know much about the nature at which revenue comes in and expenditure goes on would be disposed to say that it is really not until the beginning of May that an honest forecast can be made of the final deficit outcome. However, an unscrupulous practice was indulged in of measuring the amount of the deficit at any time, proportionately for the whole of the year, and multiplying that figure by whatever fraction of the year it happened to represent. For instance, if the figure were for 2 months, to obtain the total deficit for the year, it would be multiplied by six. If the figure were for 3 months, it would be multiplied by four. If it were for 6 months, it would be multiplied by two, and so on. This gave a rather grotesque picture of what the final Budget outcome would be. But it was a pernicious habit indulged in almost perpetually for the last 3 years or so. 
I am at least sticking to the fact that this is a Bill which deals with the borrowing of $200m. I am trying to suggest that this money could have come out of the Budget allocation, in which case we would not have had this measure before us separately. But it has been chosen to go on to the loan market to find the money. A good case can be made out for creating a new sort of commercial paper called, for example, the telecommunications loans. This would be a new venture. I suppose that such loans would be as good as gilt edged because legislation would give the backing of the Commonwealth to the loans. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  delivered the second reading speech. He said: 
Annual borrowings of the Commission have reached a very substantial figure in terms of the Commonwealth Budget and, in the Government 's view, it is appropriate that the Commission should seek a portion of these funds this year from the capital market as an alternative to direct funding from the Budget. 
If it is legitimate enough for the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to have made that observation, surely it is responsible enough for honourable members on this side of the House to suggest at least that what is being done here represents an attempt to camouflage the level of the Budget deficit. My colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide, observed the position in his amendment in the correct order. In paragraph (a) of his amendment he states: for stressing the importance of the magnitude of the deficit instead of the method of financing the deficit. 
Of course, the effect would be the same presumably. If the Commonwealth loaned the $200m to Telecom, it would appear as a loan item in the Budget. A second course would be for the Commonwealth to go to the loan market in various ways to find that same amount of money and instead of following that first course it would pay the money directly to Telecom out of moneys that it had raised separately. A third course, and it is the course chosen here, is for Telecom itself to go directly on to the loan market. Perhaps the Treasurer is being shrewd here. He may think that by doing this he can tap a source to provide this $200m that he might not get otherwise. This gets us back to the whole central question concerning the deficit. It is not only the level of the deficit but also how it is financed that is important for the totality of the economy. I hope that as the Treasurer slowly learns about the difficulty of interpreting the deficit month by month he will come to the reality of acknowledging the difficulty involved. The lesson that he read this morning on the constituent parts of M3 shows that he is learning. I am afraid that when our positions were reversed I read the same lecture to him one day. I think I had more understanding of the situation then than he had when he asked me a question. I hope he had a better understanding of the situation when he answered the question today than he had when he previously asked me a question on this matter. 
Surely the ultimate question is: How much does one finance one's Budget by going on to the loan market and by resorting to what was unscrupulously called the 'printing press'? Of course, the reference is to borrowing a sum from the Reserve Bank. One might say, if one accepts this crude term, that one goes to the printing press for the first several months of the year but cancels what has been printed in the last several months. Surely it is only the balance on a 12 months basis that is of any significance. 
I think my colleague, the honourable member for Adelaide, has done a service to the House by pointing out the nature of this measure. As I tried to suggest at the beginning, had it not been for the fact that this Government has a thing about the word 'Australia' and a preference for the antiquated word 'Commonwealth', I doubt whether it would have been necessary to institute the measure other than to cover the fact that the Federal Government might have become liable to pay State duties because of this new sort of security which perhaps had not been covered when the Act was written. But it would seem that if Telecom does this again we will not have another Bill before us. I am sure that this will not be the only example; it is more likely to become an annual event. The Telecommunications Commission will simply be able to go to the Treasurer, negotiate with him and get his consent with regard to that part of the Commission's total capital resources which the Commission believes needs to be raised directly. 
Finally, I should like to say something about the capital market or the availability of capital funds in the Australian economy. Information on this matter is quite interestingly set out each year in this document which for this year is entitled 'National Income and Expenditure 1975-76'. Table 5, which is entitled 'National Capital Account' shows on the one hand the capital funds that are spent in Australia each year and, on the other, the sources from which they are derived. For the last year for which we have figures- 1975-76- the total gross fixed capital expenditure in Australia was $ 16,697m- a pretty substantial sum, which, for the most part, is generated internally. That total is divided into what is called 'private' capital expenditure and 'public' capital expenditure and a certain pattern has emerged over a considerable number of years. Two-thirds of total capital expenditure in Australia is in the area known as 'private' and roughly one-third is in the area that is called 'public'. I would think that over the years the Post Office and, in particular, the telecommunications side, was by far the biggest single user annually of capital resources. This year is no exception because the anticipated capital resources are $9 10m. That figure is fairly close to 6 per cent of the anticipated capital expenditure and something like one-fifth of the part that is spent by public authorities. 
I think this House needs to be a little bit thorough in its examination of the capital expenditure of this great enterprise. Over the years I have been an admirer of the operations of the Post Office. I am not too sure that the Commissions are better than the old departmental arrangement. However, at this point, those questions seem to me to be technicalities rather than realities. The same things are broadly being done only the Telecommunications Commission is now called a 'statutory authority' instead of a 'government department'. But the Telecommunications Commission is just as insatiable a searcher for capital resources year by year as was the department. It has the restriction that existed even in the days when the Commissions were not in the statute: Something like one-half of what the Post Office spent capitally had to be generated by itself. The other half was found by the government and not by separate transactions of the kind that are debating now. I believe this is an opportunity to investigate some of the philosophic assumptions that underlie the financing of this very important, but very gigantic eater of limited capital resources with regard to the totality of the Australian economy. 
My question addressed to the Treasurer concerns page 26 of that famous Budget Statement No. 2, which I am sure he keeps in his head in the same way as my colleague keeps it under his pillow. Under the heading 'Prices and Incomes', reference is made on the one hand to increases in the consumer price index and on the other hand to increases in more broadly based price indices. The document expresses the hope that these might move by similar orders of magnitude in the year as a whole. I ask the Treasurer, firstly, will he indicate whether he is dissatisfied with the CPI as a measure of inflation? Secondly, what are the other more broadly based price indices? Thirdly, does he believe that the other more broadly based price indices give a better or a worse or even a different indication of the rates of inflation in Australia? 
I must say, with all sad respect, that I find what the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  has just said a bit ludicrous. C. J. Dennis was one of the great poets of this country. It is offensive to travesty what he wrote. I wish the honourable gentleman had quoted from a poem called  The Austra-laise.  It was about what were called 'blokes an' coves an' coots'. I am not quite sure in what category the honourable gentleman would fall. The C. J. Dennis centenary- I presume it is the centenary of his birth- is being celebrated with, I hope, a certain degree of solemnity, not with the sort of nonsense that was perpetrated a few moments ago. I think this is typical of what passes for a kind of pseudo culture at the moment. 
It may be a communist orientated society but at least the honourable gentleman should know that we are living in a changing society. The late C. J. Dennis was one who typified the nature of the change of that society. I do not know whether the gentleman who has just indulged in that so-called pseudo comic speech saw the recent Australian Broadcasting Commission presentation of  The Sentimental Bloke  in a musical form. Perhaps he did not. I suppose he was out dining with tycoons on the only night on which the show was shown. 
He may have been down 'Little Lon'. But with great respect I do not quite know why this speech was made tonight, what it was supposed to typify and why it was of such importance that it should have taken the limited time available in this adjournment debate. 
I have a great respect for C. J. Dennis. At least he was a representative of the working class of this country which still contains the great majority of Australians. When one finds that kind of travesty perpetrated and hears the kind of laughter that accompanies it one is concerned at the levels to which this great Parliament can sink. I say no more about that. But I just wonder what point the honourable member was trying to make. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Foreign Minister visited Jakarta in April 1976? During that visit did he hold discussions with the Foreign Minister of Indonesia,  Mr Malik?  Will the Prime Minister confirm, as  Mr Malik  has now stated publicly, that the Foreign Minister told  Mr Malik  that the Australian Government understands that East Timor should be incorporated into Indonesia? Finally, is that the basis on which the Prime Minister's talks will be held in Indonesia in October? 
I support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  namely that this item be reduced by $10 which is the standard pattern to show your root and branch objection to something in these estimates. I have even heard my name quoted in support of the doctrine- it was repeated by my friend, the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)-  that inflation is the main cause of unemployment. I think one can only say that inflation can be a contributing factor to unemployment but I think it is quite wrong to suggest that inflation is the main cause of unemployment. 
Part of the shadow Minister's amendment deals with the functioning of the Bureau of Census and Statistics. I sometimes think that rather than having too few statistics, we have far too many. Perhaps we do not analyse them as critically as we should. I briefly want to point to the most recent figures of unemployment in Australia. They show that at the end of August the number of unemployed persons registered was 267 886. Nearly half of that total number who were unemployed were in 2 categories described as semi-skilled- there were 70 282 in that area- and unskilled manual where there were 62 314. For the number of unfilled vacancies requiring semi-skilled workers from the 70 000 seeking jobs, there were less than 5000 jobs available. Similarly, in the unskilled manual category for the 62 000 people seeking work there were slightly over 1000 jobs available. I submit that there is not enough analysis done on the nature of unemployment in Australia. It is easy to say that the Labor Government started it all. I bring to the memory of people that the Labor Government won the election in December 1972 because members of the public in Australia thought at that time that unemployment was higher than it ought to be. Unemployment had reached over 100 000. What has happened since that time- this happened under our Government and it has continued under the present Government- is that the total number of unemployed has continued to rise. Government supporters claim that the Government is doing something to reduce inflation. If inflation is reducing and unemployment is still rising I think it throws a little bit of suspicion on the thesis that inflation is the main cause of unemployment. I submit that it is time that we looked a little more closely at these tilings. 
Part of the thesis of the Budget, it seems to me, is that the Treasurer is looking for a lift in consumption. The main bulk of consuming units in Australia are the families with a male breadwinner and the families where the wage is the source of consumption expenditure. At least there is some kind of a dilemma between wanting the rate at which wages increase to lessen and at the same time wanting consumer expenditure to rise. I think what is curiously mixed up in this thesis is that somehow the Government is looking for the lift in consumer expenditure not to come out of wages but to come out of savings. I must say that I am a little intrigued by the fact that this year in the Treasury estimates there is no provision for what used to be called in other years the 'national savings campaign'. It is cut out altogether. Apparently it has been so successful that instead of teaching thrift we now have to encourage people to be spendthrifts. Apparently the Government is saying to the people: 'The money that we wanted you to save, we now want youtodis-save'. 
With all respect to the Treasurer and to the Government, I think there needs to be much more examination in Australia about this item which is rather intriguingly called 'Saving'. One of the very important documents published each year with the Budget is headed  National Income and Expenditure 1975-76.  Table 3 in that document shows that the total saving by the Australian community for the period ended June 1976 was $ 10,971m. One can see from Table 5, headed the  National Capital Account,  where the main sources of this saving are set out, that the biggest single item- something like threequarters of the total- is an amount of $7,546m under the heading 'Household saving'. That is a very substantial sum. In looking at the description of how the item 'Saving' is made up, much of it, I am sure, is not what people would like to regard as 'Saving'. If the mortgage payment goes up, according to the statistics so does 'Saving' go up. In my view it is a rather peculiar definition of Saving', particularly if it is in this area that the Treasurer is looking for a boost in consumer expenditure. If the mortgage payment goes up I suggest there is less left over for the consumer to spend. I think it is about time that we did a bit more study in this country of this vast item Saving'. 
I believe that the patterns of expenditure change and that they will continue to change, that people do not save because they are frightened that tomorrow they are not going to have a job. That is quite often said, but candidly I do not believe it to be the explanation in Australia. Savings have increased in Australia over the years. They grew quite spectacularly in the first 2 years of the Labor Government when the levels of unemployment were not as high as they are now. Savings rose because increasingly people get long service leave and can have anything up to 3 months to 6 months holiday. Increasingly they go on caravanning journeys within Australia or take trips overseas and so on, and of course they have to build up their savings to meet the cost involved. I think the old consumption patterns are changing, that less is expended on the sorts of consumptions that perhaps were popular 10 years ago and that new forms of consumption spending are coming in. I think it is about time that we did a little more analysis of the sons of statistics that do exist, rather than quibble about the ones that we do not have and ultimately whose responsibility it is. I happen to be one of the people who are defenders of the Treasury. I was with Treasury for quite a while. I was an admirer of its capacities and I certainly do not knock it here today, but I think often too much is expected of it, and too little real thinking comes from people like ourselves who, after all, are the ones who are chosen by the people of Australia to solve these great problems. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I want to support my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  in his defence of Professor Manning Clark. I am glad to see the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  here. I must say that I have never been a great one for performing on the adjournment debate, but one of the earliest speeches I ever made in my life on an adjournment debate was in the 
Parliament of Victoria in 1947. I spoke in defence of this gentleman. He was not Professor Manning Clark then; he was  Mr Manning  Clark. I happen to have been a student of  Mr Manning  Clark. I understand that he came from a great school called Melbourne Grammar School. He was one of my tutors in the days when I was a student in a subject called British History D. The last term of British History D was devoted to all that was taught in Melbourne University of Australian history. The new boy who came out to be my tutor was Manning Clark. Since then he has produced not only these 2 volumes of Australian history that I hold in my hands but also a third one. In my view, he is one of the great Australian historians. 
Speaking candidly, I do not know why there have been these moves in the last few days to try to denigrate him. I think that a great tribute has been paid to him in asking him to give the Boyer lecture for 1976. Sometimes, a lot of nonsense is talked about what people stand for and what they do not stand for. Volumes 1, 2 and 3 of Australian history by Manning Clark contain some of the best contributions made to Australian history. I do not know what the nonsense that went on in another place was about. I am pleased to see the Minister for the Capital Territory at the table. He at least knows the quality of the contributions that Manning Clark has made to Australian history. I think at times a lot of nonsense is talked. Some honourable members might not like the interpretation that he gives to history. But to suggest that this gentleman lacks intellectual integrity to my mind is a denigration of democracy in Australia. It is impossible for us all to agree with the views of people and their interpretations of history. But I think that Manning Clark has made a significant contribution to Australian history. 
As I say, in my school days, all that was taught of Australian history was contained in the last 3 months tutoring on one subject. Now, at least there is a great literature about Australian history. A comprehensive course in Australian history can be undertaken now. In my view, one of the persons who contributed to that and made it possible is Manning Clark. We never all agree with the views of other people historically, but at least the integrity of other people should be acknowledged. This man, who is now retired from academic life, went to a meeting the other night. Surely, in all freedom he is entitled to go to that meeting. Honourable members opposite might not have liked the meeting, they might not have liked what he said, but surely they do not deny his right to go to the meeting and say what he said. Surely, if anybody wants to get up tonight and deny the integrity of these documents, he is entitled to do so. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the absence overseas of the  Deputy Chairman,  the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  I present on behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory the report on proposals for variations in the plan of the lay-out of the city of Canberra and its environs, 60th and 6 1st series. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask leave of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  a short statement in connection with the report. I do this because the matters are particular and local but interesting. 
I wish to address my remarks to the estimates for the Department of Overseas Trade. Having just listened to the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory and the Department of the Northern Territory and the replies of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  and the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  I wish that people sometimes would not think that everything that is wrong with this country can be remedied in this place. It is nice to extol the virtues of the honourable member for here, there and so on but there are many problems in Australia that are aggregate problems. I suggest that Australia's overseas trade falls within this category. The Minister for the Capital Territory said that when his forces came into Government they found an economy in desperate straits. I suggest that in many respects the economy still has to face very serious problems. With all respect, I do not think that these problems are being faced up to. 
Australia happens to be one of the countries which has a very large proportion of its total economic activity determined by international trade. For instance, in 1975-76 our exports totalled $9, 555m. On the other hand, our imports for the same period totalled $8, 240m. In other words, there was an international trade aggregate of something in excess of $17 billionover one-quarter of the total gross domestic product. This trade has shown substantial changes in patterns over the last 25 years. I think it is about time that we gave some serious thought to where it will go in the next 25 years. In the past we were dependent- we are still heavily dependent- upon the export of certain primary materials, the principal ones being wool, wheat and dairy products. These products still form a substantial part- I think it is about 40 per cent -of our total exports. Australia is also one of the few countries in the world which is still an exporter of food on a large scale. I think members of the National Country Party would acknowledge that in the areas of beef, sugar and wheat, to mention only a few, by far the preponderant part of what is produced in Australia is not sold in Australia. It is sold overseas and it is sold in markets in which, to date, we have had little influence. I think that the situation that has been reached in Australia with regard to beef has emerged largely because some assurances were given years ago that the United States would become an importer on a grand scale of beef from Australia. Unfortunately, when there is an economic recession in the United States there tends to be a decline in its absorption of products, including beef, from other parts of the world. 
That is only one example of the difficulties we face. Candidly I do not think there is any difference in the policies being pursued by the present Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  from those which were being pursued when I happened to be the occupant of that position. The former Labor Government was endeavouring to get certainty from those who were to be our customers about the quantities they were likely to require. I am afraid that is not very easy to do. It will become much more difficult in respect of other products which Australia may become dependent upon for export in the years ahead. I think honourable members are familiar with the formidable document called the Jackson report- the report on manufacturing industry. If one may summarise such an omnibus document, I believe that what it meant to convey was that if the manufacturing industry in Australia is to employ in the future the same share of the labour market as it has in the past, it must rely on exports for expansion. It is easy enough to say that but it is not very easy to come forward with the candidates in the manufacturing area who are likely to achieve successful increases in the years ahead. 
I believe that these are the serious sorts of problems to which Parliament and the people responsible for the economic destinies of this country have to give more serious consideration in the future than they have in the past. I have a great admiration for the Department of Overseas Trade and for its overseas trade commission service in particular. Sometimes it is criticised rather unfairly. If one looks at these estimates totalling $65m and takes out of that figure the $28m set up for export encouragement one realises that the Department is a fairly cheap one to administer, considering the services it provides. 
We have had a great spate of documents in recent times in Australia. We have had the Coombs report on the structure of government; we have had the Borrie report on future population; we have had the Jackson report on manufacturing, with all its allied documents. One might say about all these documents that the authors are very good at pointing out problems, but they are very short in providing solutions. Maybe it is not their task to provide solutions; perhaps it is the responsibility of the community to delve a bit deeper and get solutions. I do not believe that economies can be run anymore on what in other days used to be called hunches. 
I did not observe the remarks of  Mr Charles  W. Robinson, the United States  Deputy  Secretary of State, when he was in Australia some time ago, but today I was rather intrigued to receive in my mail a copy of the  Journal of Commerce,  New York, dated 16 August which contained a summary of the address he gave to the National Press Club in Canberra. It is very rare that Canberra gets a headline in a New York paper. This is what  Mr Robinson  said: 
I have developed a very firm conviction that interdependence means involvement of government in what might have been hitherto free enterprise areas. 
I submit it is about time that sort of lesson was underlined in this Parliament. Since the change of government I have heard speeches  ad nauseam  on free enterprise. I suggest that there has to be more co-operation between government and business in the future, particularly in this area of overseas trade. I would hope that this Government would have second thoughts about a measure which its members rejected when it was introduced by the Labor Government. I refer to the setting up of an overseas trading corporation. I believe that Australia is at a great loss in markets where currently it does no business. No one is complaining about the markets we have already but there are vast areas of potential trade that Australia has not yet reached. In my view it will not reach them unless there is a greater degree of co-operation, with government representing economic interests in Australia rather than those economic interests always directly finding their own markets. I would commend to the present Minister for Overseas Trade, because a lot of work was done on this subject, the suggestion that he look at the files about the overseas trading corporation. At least now he has been to places like Russia and China and is willing to acknowledge that Australia has to live with these parts of the world which contain more than a quarter of its population. Perhaps he will have second thoughts about that matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I want to speak briefly to this Bill. When this Bill is disposed of in a few moments what is called the Budget will have been passed as far as this House is concerned. I point out that the Bill which has been disposed of already- Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1 976-77- accounts for an aggregate expenditure of $7,502m. This Bill provides for an expenditure of $1,725,446,000. Between them the Bills account for an expenditure of $9.2 billion out of a total projected expenditure this year of $24 billion. Honourable members will find set out in detail in the statement entitled 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure' how that other $15 billion or so is to be spent. There are 2 large items, of course. One concerns what goes into the National Welfare Fund, mainly for the payment of social services, which aggregate nearly $6 billion. A further $6 billion-$6, 1 40m- relates to payments to or for the States. 
The largest single item in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) relates to the salaries and wages of people whom one cannot sack but who technically one cannot pay until Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) is passed. This House in particular went through a traumatic experience recently because of the refusal of what is rather loosely called Supply. The point I want to make is that this literally allows 60 per cent of the total expenditure to pass without any discussion, but certain people will still gang up and say that another place that cannot introduce these measures somehow has the right to refuse them. I believe that it is time that this House began to assert some rights. I think it is time that common sense occasionally prevailed against the opinions of lawyers, not matter how eminent they may believe themselves to be. At times they are very unworldly as far as a working parliamentary system is concerned. I still happen to be one who believes that the parliamentary system of government is the best system so far devised by mankind. But it is not a system that should be fractured or ruptured occasionally to suit political advantage. 
I believe that any commonsense understanding of a working Constitution in 1976 can come to only one sensible conclusion; that is that Supply cannot be refused and ought never be refused in another place. Of course there is a tendency to believe that because certain things happened as a result of the election on 13 December, somehow that vindicated the action taken on 11 November. I hope that that will never be so regarded generally. I hope that when constitutional conventions and similar bodies are meeting they give some consideration to what I think is essential, and that is that paramountcy in financial matters should reside in this House, the 
House of Representatives. Governments are made and unmade by the success of the numbers in the House of Representatives. I believe you cannot have a system with one set of ground rules when there happens to be some difference in the political opinion of the other House as against this House. If we are to protect what we have and to make workable what we have I believe that never again can it be contemplated that Supply will be refused. 
I tried to point out how flimsy is the part called Supply in regard to the totality. I noticed the other day that a senator sitting on an Estimates Committee pointed out much the same thing. These large sums of money are never really debated in this House. Candidly I think that this House yielded when it agreed to split the Appropriation Bill and to have Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) separate from Appropriation Bill (No. 2 ). The distinction is supposed to relate to what are called ordinary annual services, dealt with in Appropriation Bill (No. 1), and what are vaguely called capital works, which are dealt with in Appropriation Bill (No. 2). The reality is that government these days is a continuum and a major part of what goes into these Bills merely represents the financial sanctioning of programs and processes begun some years ago and which may well continue for a good number of years. There is very little new initiative in either of the Appropriation Bills. 
I hope that at some time this House will show a bit more concern about the anatomy of its accounts and will at least acknowledge that we are talking about a continuing system. When somebody rather fecklessly believes he can refuse Supply, in essence what he is doing is denying the validity of what previous parliaments have done. He is putting into prejudice the payment of salaries to people who have created no offence but simply are carrying out the duties they are supposed to carry out. I have simply taken this opportunity to say these few words because in a moment Appropriation Bill (No. 2) will be carried virtually without debate. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is overseas and I accept that situation but if he were here he would heave a sigh of relief as far as this House is concerned and say: 'At least I have got rid of the Budget and at least on this occasion I can sleep content knowing that nothing much is likely to happen to it in the other place'. In my view that is how every Treasurer ought to be able to sleep. As far as financial affairs are concerned, this is the only House that matters. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-If I may say so, I regard this legislation as one of the most shameful measures ever introduced into this Parliament. My friend from the National Country Party, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O 'Keefe),  if I may say so, tediously read out a speech. I do not know what interest he was serving by reading it. It might be said that the measure that was introduced by the previous Government was somewhat crude in its application. Nevertheless, surely every member in this House should have at least some consciousness about the retention of our abundant resources of coal. 
In some respects, what was done- and I was a member of the Cabinet at the time- was an attempt to apply an excess profit tax to a particular company. I have been rather astonished by the sorts of interjections that have been made about this matter, particularly by the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  who seemed to be applauding what was being done but was not explaining why it is being done. Australia is one of the countries that has as abundance of coal. The tax is about coal. We happen to have an abundance of coal in certain areas which are easy of access. Because of the actions of certain State governments, entry or access to those resources was made available on what I regarded as most favourable terms to those companies. 
Let me explain what the Labor Government attempted to do through this legislation. Candidly, I applaud what we did, although it might have been crude in its application. I would like to quote a paragraph from one of the briefest speeches ever made in this House by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  in which he said: 
As indicated in the Budget Speech, this action is the first step towards phasing out this levy which the Government regards as an entirely inappropriate form of tax in that its effects fall in a quite haphazard manner as marginal fields pay the same rate of duty as economically more profitable fields or in some cases more. 
I can accept the fact that marginal fields should not pay the same rate of duty as economically more profitable fields. But why do not we do something about taxing the economically more profitable fields? As I understand it, this is what the issue was all about. While it is not always nice to mention names, one company at the moment -Utah Mining Australia Ltd- is making profits of hundreds of millions of dollars. The company is making such profits only because it obtained easy access to a particular area. What is the objection to making the companies that are obviously making excessive profits pay more than those companies which are making marginal profits? 
-You do not define 'marginal'. All I am suggesting is that the Government ought to look a little more sensitively and sensibly at the position. A company is taking something like $200m - 
Let us get down to proportions. The amount of $200m represents one-third of 1 per cent of the total gross domestic product of the nation. Why should a foreign company- that is what Utah is- take this out of the nation without the imposition of an excess profit tax? Honourable members opposite are the great ones when it suits them who talk about excess wage payments or excess profits. But they are not prepared to let what I may call a foreigner - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Of course you move that the question be put. 
If I may say so, the debate was somewhat circumscribed. I want to draw attention o something - 
Motion (by  Mr Bouchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I wish to observe that in 3 weeks time it will be 1 1 November. That day commemorates one of the most shameful days- 11 November 1975- in Australia's constitutional history. The honourable member for MacKellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is a great fighter for somebody else's battles. Today I noticed that he wants to be the mover of a Bill that will put Australia back even further. He wants to make the Senate exercise some responsibility for financial affairs in Australia. Candidly I regard that proposition as a retrograde step. I hope that, in what he said, he was talking about constitutional government in other countries. I want to talk about constitutional government in Australia. 
I believe that what happened almost a year ago put Australia back into the colonial age when its position is compared with that of Western democracies. If the motion that the honourable member for MacKellar moved in the House today is any guide, he seemed to be prepared to accept that. The honourable member proposes that if there is a refusal of Supply in this place or in the other place there will be grounds for a double dissolution. I might say, with all respect, that not only is he becoming metaphysical but also he is, I think, a bit atavistic about what Australia in the twentieth century is supposed to be about. One can have all sorts of views about what happened in Hungary, how it happened and why it happened. But if the honourable member thinks that, in Australia, he is to be a freedom fighter for some other parts of the world, I suggest that he should look at what some of the circumstances in Australia are. 
I believe that between now and the end of this century, Australia faces most critical situations internally. With all respect to those who are now in government, I say that they do not seem even to acknowledge what those factors are. Those opposite won the last election; I am not arguing that fact. I think they won it on the falsest of pretences. They won it without tanks and without force, but I think they won it by what might be called a conspiracy. I am not arguing who took part in that conspiracy. All I hope is that it will be acknowledged in Australia in 1976 that, when one looks at the realities of the situation, the upper House, which ostensibly is supposed to be a States house, but which has become a Party House, should not be able to refuse Supply. I say to anybody who seeks to justify in 1976 the argument that a Governor-General in Australia can exercise powers which the Queen in the United Kingdom cannot that his synthetic sympathy about what is happening in Hungary or anywhere else in the world is very misplaced when he is taking part in the death of democracy in Australia. 
I said yesterday- I support this view- that I still believe that the Parliamentary system of government is yet the best devised by mankind. But it is not a system that can have different rules when different parties happen to have the majority in this House. I hope that nobody here will deny the reality that the Government of Australia is determined by who happens to have the majority of members in this House. If you contrive to make some sort of silly sentiment that because you do not like what is happening here and you happen to have the numbers in another place you can pervert the system you should rethink your thoughts. 
-The Opposition offers no objection to this measure. I support generally the contention of the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  that it is a bit unfair that what is basically the same estate should be taxed twice in a short period of time and that in many respects the clever people can avoid paying double tax if they want to, simply by making proper legal arrangements in the first place. I want to say something about this form of taxation generally because I think most honourable members have been pestered from time to time over the years by people who somehow seem to see something iniquitous in the fact that estates are taxed at all. Candidly, that is a point on which I will never yield. I believe that in the absence of a proper system of capital gains taxation, estate or probate duty is one of the very few measures left for redressing the maldistribution of wealth and incomes that exists within a community. Also, it seems to me- 
At least you cannot kick when you are dead. With all respect to the honourable member for North Sydney, that is scarcely a rational answer to the argument I am trying to put. Most of the objections that were being raised by people tended to be applicable in the State field rather than in the "Federal field. If people were to look at the statistics that are published in some detail each year in the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation-because it is he who has charge of Commonwealth estate dutiesthey would find that whereas approximately 120 000 people die each year in Australia, the number of estates that are liable for estate duty is between 12 000 and 16 000. In other words, nine out of ten, or certainly seven out of eight, of all Australians who die do so in circumstances in which they are not liable to pay estate duties because their estates are smaller than the minimum subject to taxation. Even the tax, when levied, does not take away a great deal of the estate. In fact, for the last year for which the statistics are published there were 12 052 estates with a gross value of $964m and the amount of tax raised on those estates was $65 m. So it is really not a very heavy form of taxation, to say the least. 
One of the problems which this Bill remedies is the problem of the matrimonial home. These days one does not need to have much of a property for it to be worth perhaps $60,000 or $70,000. One might not have paid that amount to build it in the first place but these days the value of any sort of property in metropolitan areas is likely to be between $60,000 and $70,000, at a minimum. This measure does something to remove the difficulty which arises if the husband pre-deceases the wife and the main asset is a dwelling place. In that case, the widow is often forced to obtain a mortgage to keep a roof over her head. I think that kind of difficulty, at least, is overcome by this Bill. The other area in which problems arise is in the application of this tax to rural properties. I do not know how easy most people believe it is these days for a boy to become a farmer, if he wishes to do so, and if his father does not happen to be a farmer. It is not very easy for a boy or girl to attain that desire. 
-As the honourable member for Riverina says, it is almost impossible. 
-Yes, he would need at least $100,000 to start something like a poultry farm these days. 
Maybe having no brains is an asset in that circumstance. It requires a great deal of courage to set out on such a course. I sometimes wonder what will be the reality in a society in the finish. In Australia today over 70 per cent of people who have homes either own them outright or are paying off a mortgage. What will happen at the end of the road when everybody has a house, including the sons and daughters of those who are about to pass on? What are we to do with these kinds of accumulation of property? After all the logic behind the imposition of estate or probate duty in the first place was the belief that the dead hand should not rule the current generation. It was regarded as a matter of equity that some tax should be imposed upon large inheritances. Whether the tax should be based on the value of the estate at the time of death or ought to be imposed differently upon those who inherit is a matter that I think requires a great deal more systematic examination than has been given so far. 
I understand that a committee of the Senate inquired into this whole area some years ago. I think its members were divided in their opinions as to what ought to be done. Some thought that the Commonwealth ought to get out of the area altogether and leave it entirely to the States. That would mean giving up something like $70m or $80m a year because that is about what is collected from it. On the other hand there are great difficulties because there is not much uniformity amongst the States as to how they levy the various probate or estate duties. I certainly do not think that any community that is interested in questions of social equity can decide to abandon the field altogether. 
The honourable member for Ballaarat has suggested that what was thought to be a minimum size estate ten or fifteen years ago should be adjusted upwards to allow for changing money values and so on. There may be a case for doing that. If the exemption were as high as $100,000 one would not lose a great deal of revenue. One might then be able to be a bit more scientific about the larger estates upon which one decides a tax ought to be imposed. When one looks at the fact that something like twenty of the estates of 12 000 people were valued at over $ lm each, I do not think that one necessarily can be too sympathetic about the amount in tax that is levied upon them. Those estates had a dutiable value of $35m and the tax that was raised from them was less than $5m. I doubt whether anyone can say that that is a very harsh impact by the tax upon what are very large estates. I think it is certainly true to say in respect of the rural areas that the best holdings in the best farming areas still tend to be held in very large aggregates and that there are still properties of 10 000 or 15 000 acres whose capital value, if they are in the right sheep or cattle country, must be well over $lm. They therefore tend to be family inheritances rather than an opportunity for anybody to buy into them and, as it were, start from nought. 
I believe that occasionally we ought to have a look at the logic behind taxes that have been imposed for a long while. Primarily that is why I have chosen to make a few comments today. I do not object to what is being done in this respect. I think that it is a logical enough extension of the amendments that I made when I was the Treasurer to apply a larger exemption to the matrimonial home than previously was the case. The present Government seems to regard that move as being inadequate or having some anomalies in certain circumstances. I am not too sure that what is being done in this respect is necessarily better, but it is certainly a tendency to move along in the right direction. I have always had the view that it is wrong to tax what is really the same estate twice in a short period of time. I go along with the honourable member for Ballaarat on that aspect. Perhaps that anomaly ought to be removed altogether in the future. The honourable member for Ballaarat acknowledged that one may have to take certain safeguards in doing so. It is amazing what the ingenuity of lawyers can sometimes do with what is the good intent of legislation. The shrewd lawyer and accountant can often drive the proverbial coach and horse through the spirit of the law by rigid adherence to what is known as the letter of the law. But I do not believe that any modern community can afford to do away with some form of taxation upon estates, particularly large estates, because of the existence of large estates does pose very many difficult problems in a society that claims to give support to equity and social justice. 
-Like my colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  I support the measure before us. I should like to commend this very fine socialist enterprise- the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation, as it is now called. I had the honour to be its Minister for some time and in February, I think it was, last year I was able to have amendments made in this House which added to the types of undertaking that the organisation was able to finance. 
I am afraid that I cannot support altogether the statement of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  that inflation is crippling Australia's ability to export. For the most part Australia's exports are in areas where unfortunately we do not determine the price that we get. If one looks at the very admirable report of the Department of Overseas Trade one will see Australia's exports and imports listed in some considerable detail. Of course, the main Australian exports are still primary products and raw materials. Although manufacturing has improved somewhat, much of what is loosely denned as 'manufacturing' in respect of exports tends to relate to raw materials that have had some processing. As a result these raw materials rank as manufactures. But they are not the sort of manufactures that for the most part provide large scale employment in Australia. 
The report of the Committee to Advise on Policies for Manufacturing, known as the Jackson report, which was recently tabled in this House, made the observation that if Australian manufacturing industry in the future is to maintain its relative position economically- I presume by that the report means as a contributor to gross domestic product and as a provider of employment- it will only do so if there is an increase in Australia's exports of manufactures. However, none of the various manufacturing groups very readily come up with candidates that are likely to be successful exporters of manufactures in the foreseeable future. It may well be that there will be a considerable time lag before 
Australia takes off in finding new sorts of manufactures that it will be able to export. 
The new credit arrangement that EFIC now undertakes enables the financing of exports from Australia in the machinery type of area where the contract tends to be over a long period of time. Of course, the difficulty of the Australian producer is that he wants to get his cash fairly quickly. The annual report of EFIC draws attention on page 18 to what is called 'unconditional guarantees to banks'. It points out that the practical effect of that facility can be twofold- it may be the only basis upon which the bank is prepared to finance its customer if a large amount is involved and from the exporter's viewpoint it turns a credit sale into a cash sale. In other words, it is the organisation that bears the credit risk until the buyer at the other end is finally able to pay. Meanwhile the producer in Australia can be paid in cash and, of course, he can get on with further production. In the next section of the annual report the corporation goes on to note what are called 'buyer-credit facilities'. It would seem to me that this may be one of the areas that will have to be expanded in the future. I know from my own experience while administering the Department of Overseas Trade that often people nibbled at the prospect of Australian contractors being able to supply them with capital goods over a period of several years but then we found that other countries were able to offer better terms on the credit side. It was not that Australian costs put us outside the market. What finally put us outside the market was the availability of long term credit over considerable periods of time and for relatively large sums of money. I believe that this is the area to which we will have to devote our attention in the years ahead. I am one who believes that some industries in Australia have declined over recent years in the manufacturing area. Some industries may yet continue to decline. But we now ought to be looking systematically at what industries we can establish in Australia on a longer term basis. I believe that it is in that sort of exploratory area that our future will lie. 
It is interesting to note that Australia, for instance as a sugar producer, has also been successful in exporting sugar harvesting machinery to a number of countries. I think that we have sold such machinery to Latin American countries. According to the annual report Australia recently sold sugar milling equipment to Thailand amounting to about Sim. This was not a tremendously large amount of money but nevertheless it was a move in the right direction. I do not agree with all of the nonsense that is spoken about Australia costing itself out of the market because of high wages. Does anyone seriously believe that there will be a drop in real wages in Australia in the years ahead? We are stuck with the structure as we find it at the moment. When labour costs are high there is always a challenge to industry to install labour-saving machinery. I believe that this is the direction in which Australia has to go. Perhaps instead of Australia believing that it can continue as a producer of textiles it may well have to become a manufacturer of textile equipment and supply countries like Indonesia and India where there are considerably large populations. The economic history of most countries has been to start with light industry and then to get progressively into heavy industry. Some years ago motor cars produced in Australia were exported to other countries. But now we face competition externally in the motor car field and it is very difficult for Australia to export competitively motor cars. 
In fact in the golden days of the early 1970s when the export of manufactures was a bit larger than it is now, motor cars were exported principally to 3 places. Firstly they were exported to New Zealand which is our closest market. The price at which our cars were sold to New Zealand was competitive because of the transport problems which other countries faced. Secondly, we sold motor vehicles to South Africa. We were able to do so competitively because of the export incentive scheme that existed at the time. Thirdly, of course, we sold them to Papua New Guinea. Now we find that New Zealand is not disposed to take as many motor cars because of its general adverse trade position. The country is in a very difficult situation. We do not export to South Africa now because the export incentive scheme has changed. In some respects we were achieving exports in earlier days on a marginal costing basis. The incentive scheme made some exports payable propositions that otherwise would not have been profitable. That scheme was abolished. Candidly I believe that was the right decision. It was costing a tremendous sum and in my view it was not the sensible way to be assisting Australian industry. 
We began in Australia a year or so ago to tinker with what is called structural change. I believe that Australian industry in the years ahead has to face up very seriously to structural change. I believe that government assistance and encouragement will be needed for that sort of structural change to take place. It will not occur by accident. I believe in the final analysis that Australia can still be one of the world's great exporters of foodstuffs and raw materials. The problem here again is finding customers who have money in their pockets. This is one of the reasons why it seems sensible to me that Australia should be in the forefront of things such as multilateral trade negotiations and bodies like the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Of course every time someone suggests altering any single tariff in Australia there is bound to be a cry from the industry that is affected. 
The annual report of the Department of Overseas Trade shows that about 28 per cent of the gross domestic product of Australia is made up of export and import trade. Countries cannot expect to export if in tura they do not import. There has to be at least some sensible give and take in the process. I am not sure that in the long run there is a great future for expanding manufacturing industry in the export direction. I do not think any categorical answer can be given. It certainly is difficult at the moment to nominate the areas in which an increase of any spectacular kind is likely to occur in the next four to five years. It may be that we will have to resign ourselves to manufacturing industry supplying only the local market. Perhaps there will have to be a tj tapering off of manufacturing as the major single source of employment in Australia in the future. If that is the case we have to begin to do a lot of hard thinking about where people will find employment in the years ahead. 
I was rather astonished the other day during a meeting of the newly-formed House of Representatives Standing Committee on ExpenditureI think the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  was present at the same meeting- when Professor Karmel told us that in Australia in 1976, despite the large amounts that we have spent on education, of every 100 boys and girls who start the high school course, only 35 pupils complete it. What will be the fate of the 65 out of 100 pupils in Australia in the years ahead who have less than the full high school educational qualifications? In Japan he told us by contrast that out of every 100 students who start high school 9 1 students finish. This seems to me to pose a very serious problem in the future. Certainly some of the 65 pupils who do not complete high school go on and do apprenticeship courses and so on, but again the intake of apprentices is less than most people believe will be required in another five or ten years. If people are not trained now a shortage will occur in five or ten years in some of the skilled areas. We have to consider the purpose for which people in Australia are being educated. There can be a lot of argument about the quality as well as the quantity of education. We still unfortunately have to have a work ethic whether we like it or not. I believe that for a long time in Australia we have been training people for jobs that are not there and have not been training people to fill jobs that will be needed in the years ahead. I think this sort of thing is suddenly coming home to roost in Australia. 
It is easy to moan about what are called high wages and inflation. I say categorically that real wages in Australia will not be allowed to fall to any extent despite reading between the lines of Budget Statement No. 7. The workers of Australia will not see their real standards decline. I believe the challenge is there for a greater efficiency in Australian industry. A lot of speeches are made by members opposite about private enterprise. In my view it has been anything but enterprising over the last 10 or 15 years. The Jackson report shows that all the faults found in Australia at the moment are not due to the 3 years of Labor Government. I do not know how long this Government intends living on the kind of mythology that everything was wrong when it came to office and that it was the Labor Party's fault and not the coalition's. I cannot think of any single substantial action that has yet been taken by this Government which can be said to have improved the way in which the economy will operate. I tend to be a bit optimistic about the future not because of this Government but because I think that the Australian economy still is so good that even a Liberal Government cannot muck it up. After all we had 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government. In many ways they were the best years of economic performance but they were anything but the best years of political performance by the government then in office. 
I believe it is time for us to get down to some of the real fundamental problems that are afflicting us. I do not think we can continue to say that we have inflation higher than we would like and unemployment greater than ever before. Unemployment is greater now than when the Government came to office. It is a bit dubious that inflation is much different from when the Government came to office. The Government has been in office near enough to a year. When we reach the dividing mark when no longer the Government can blame everything on the period when it was not in office we may begin to look at some of the serious problems. In my view we should extend this long-term credit facility for Australia's exports, particularly in the heavy machinery area. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
-I support the Bills that are beforeus. While I appreciate what the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  has just said about a particular instance of aid not being rightly applied, I am afraid that that sort of thing happens. The honourable member is on a committee, as I am, and we sometimes wonder whether everything spent in Australia is properly applied. When one looks at the totality of what Australia supplies in terms of the needs that are evident one can come to the conclusion only that Australia's efforts in the aggregate are pretty piffling. The Government publishes annually a document entitled  Australia's Official Development Assistance to Developing Countries  and the other day I took out the figures for Australia's official development assistance over the 10-year period from 1967-68 to what is estimated for 1976-77. They show that over the 10-year period Australia has devoted to official development assistance what appears to be the very magnificent sum of $2,395m. I also happened to look at the figures of the national income account and found that in a single year in Australia- not a 10-year period- we spend $3, 600m on tobacco, cigarettes and alcoholic beverages. That is SO per cent more in a single year than we spent in aid in 10 years. I simply give this as a comparison. Over 10 years we spent roughly $2,400m on aid but in a single year on cigarettes, tobacco and alcoholic beverages we spent $3,600m. If anybody thinks that by this standard Australia is stinting itself to provide assistance to other countries he needs to re-think the matter. 
The Bills before us deal with the Asian Development Bank which seems to me to be one of the better endeavours in the field of international aid. We have had the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund but at least with the Asian Development Bank we endeavour to provide assistance on what are called soft terms or less than normal market rates of interest to areas adjacent to Australia, fdo not think that we always realise that Indonesia has more than 100 million people, that Japan has more than 100 million people, that India has something like 700 million to 800 million people taking into account various other areas, and that China has 800 million people. All of them are adjacent to Australia. Something like half the world's population is reasonably adjacent to us, yet we seem to think that we are doing remarkably well with the sums we assign annually to what is called official development assistance. Certainly a fanpart of it goes to one area, Papua New Guinea, where we do have economic, moral and social obligations. However, when one takes that expenditure out of what appears to be a large sum devoted to aid, there is not a great deal left to devote to other areas of the world. 
The Government has recently taken great unction to itself for spending $12 billion on defence in the next 5 years. If one divides $12 billion by five, one finds that as much is spent on defence in a single year as has been spent in the past 10 years on official assistance overseas. I sometimes wonder when people are debating these issues whether Australia would be less safe or more safe if it spent another $250m on aid to these countries and spent $2S0m less on defence. If Australia reduced defence expenditure by onetenth and doubled its assistance overseas, would Australia be safer in consequence? In my view, it would. When we talk about these great sums for defence expenditure we never ask ourselves against what we are supposed to be defending ourselves. We certainly haggle about what we will defend ourselves with and we certainly can get into some great arguments in this regard. 
However, I think we have become unduly complacent about measures like this which add another $30m to Australia's assistance to the Asian Development Bank in order to assist areas that have populations twenty times greater than the population of Australia. A schedule at the end of Budget Paper No. 8 which details Australia's assistance to developing countries in 1 976-77 shows that Australia is the fourth largest shareholder of the Asian Development Bank after Japan, India and the United States of America since the inception of the Bank. It is Government policy to give high priority to the Asian and Pacific regions in its foreign assistance and to co-operate fully with multilateral agencies, such as the Asian Development Bank, in the region. 
Pretty cursory attention is given to these matters in the Parliament. With all respect, one only has to look around the House at the moment to see how few members are present. This Bill was brought on suddenly because we ran out of business this evening. It ought not to have been debated for another day or so. Unfortunately, it is typical of the attitude of the Parliament to these great problems that we become involved in all sorts of heated debates about the cutdown on defence expenditure and whether a certain proportion of the gross domestic product should be spent on defence. I would like an honourable member to justify one night why it is so much better to have a S-year plan for defence and to spend $12 billion. Why is this money being spent? What is to be done with it? 
-Exactly. But we give with restraint to assist those countries to raise their own economies. Nearly every honourable member in the chamber at the moment has been at some time to places like Indonesia, Kuala Lumpur, Thailand, Cambodia and India. Does any honourable member seriously believe that India is going to invade this country or that China does not have enough on its hands in looking after its own internal problems? What the blazes are we supposed to be defending ourselves against? We get into highfalutin arguments about whether there are submarines in the Indian Ocean. Surely the oceans are free to everybody once outside the 200-mile limit. Surely it is no worse to have Russian submarines than to have American submarines, except that this Government happens to like American submarines better than the Russian submarines. 
Surely we are blinking our eyes at what is the real problem of the world today. The real problem of the world today is that at least one-third of the world's population lives at a level below what a Christain country would call human dignity. The piffling amount that Australia is providing is all we give to raise the standards in those countries to something resembling preferable economic opportunity. I was astonished the other day when I added up the figures of Australia's official aid to find that in 10 years in that area Australia spent two-thirds of the amount spent annually on beer, cigarettes and other consumable pleasures. 
The House is discussing the expenditure of $ 12 billion or an average each year of $2,400m on defence, as much as has been spent in the past 10 years on international aid. I believe that, in the long run, Australia's security will be built up by establishing friendly relations with its neighbours. We will not make friends by having more submarines, more battleships, more aircraft carriers or anything else. Unfortunately, the attitude is that we still like to talk loud and big about what we can do. Australia is a country of nearly 14 million people. I sometimes use as an illustration when I talk to groups other than political groups that in many ways Australia would be the least missed country in the world if, by some freak of geography, the Australian continent was turned upside down one night and we all drowned. The only people who would grieve for us would be a few relatives in Italy and Greece of recent immigrants. The Scots, the English, the Irish and the Welsh would hardly give a damn for us because we left there 100 years or more ago. Australia's contribution to the world is best made by sensible trading with the rest of the world and by assisting those parts of the world that are less fortunate than ourselves. 
I hope that Australia will become more progressive with regard to the amount of assistance it gives and less aggressive when talking about what other countries are supposed to be doing towards each other. I applaud both these Bills because I think they are moves in the right direction but they are very small moves in terms of the totality of the problems that we face. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I believe that the Treasurer is long past those days when he used to multiply monthly figures by twelve or quarterly figures by four to get horrendous annual results. I think he has now learnt to compare like with like. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I should like to say a few words about this measure. If I may say so, I think I was one of the architects of the Prices Justification Tribunal. I do not think we ever had any extravagant ideas that it would stop inflation. It was part of our election program in 1972 that just as wages have to be justified in the arbitration mechanism, equally there should be some justification on the part of those who fixed the prices of the goods and services that the wage earner was supposed to buy. The term 'justification' was used deliberately. The criteria of the Tribunal is, I think, well set out in its annual report for 1 975-76 in which it was stated: 
The Tribunal's attitude to criteria is conditioned by the fact that it is concerned with prices justification, not price control, and by the fact that the Prices Justification Act contains no guidelines, criteria or tests to be observed by it. 
If I may say so, we made the Act deliberately skeletal. In fact, I often said that it seemed to me that everybody seemed to know what the PJT ought to do, except the members of the Tribunal itself. This was the reason that we did not establish criteria. The annual report of the Tribunal continues: 
In particular, the Tribunal believes that the legislation under which it is established is not intended to restrict companies unduly in using pricing methods which they have found most suitable for their circumstances provided they do not appear contrary to the public interests. 
After all, one should be concerned occasionally about public interest. The report states further: 
Thus, while the Tribunal must and does have general criteria by which it evaluates whether prices are justified, it does not believe that at this time they can usefully be reduced to a rigid code. 
The Tribunal's general approach was briefly summarised in a passage in the report concerning General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Sales Pty Ltd . . . which was cited at page 20 of the first annual report of the Tribunal and which is still largely appropriate. 
I think it is sensible, therefore, to refer to what is said at page 20 of the first report of the Prices Justification Tribunal which states: 
In considering this case we have had regard amongst other things to the following matters as being relevant, namely whether: 
the cost increases were known to have occurred rather than merely expected; 
such increases were unavoidable; 
such increases could be offset by greater efficiency; 
sufficient accounting allowance was made for the effects of improved productivity on costs and whether in general the benefits of improved productivity were being sufficienty passed on to the consumer; 
the price increase is justified having regard to the profitability of the Company including the return on investment. 
I simply cite that paragraph in particular. What is now being written into the Act has been followed already by the Tribunal. I would have preferred that it had been left that way. The first report of the PJT states further 
We point out that such considerations are of a general nature and should not be applied in a rigid or mechanical way. 
I also was rather interested to read a document prepared by a gentleman who I understand, in one of his roles, is an economic adviser to this Government. The gentleman to whom I am referring is  Dr Neville  Norman, senior lecturer, Department of Economics, University of Melbourne. In the document entitled  The Prices Justification Tribunal Stage Two,  the learned doctor refers to the rather confusing situation that exists in Australia at the moment- that the Prices Justification Tribunal, after all, is not the only body in Australia concerned with prices charged. There are two other bodies, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Trade Practices Commission.  Dr Norman  states: 
The IAC believes that prices of most industrial goods in Australia are set with reference to the duty-inclusive price of imported goods - 
That is rather interesting in the face of the recent devaluation and the great potential there is now for the setting of new prices by Australian firms if, as he says, the firms have acted on the assumption they can set prices nearly as high as the tariff would otherwise permit.  Dr Norman  continues: 
. the premise behind PJT operations is that market power and cost increases are used in a fairly simple fashion to enforce higher prices . . . than would otherwise be the case. 
The third body, he states:  . . the TPC acts to investigate various arrangements or practices that may be seen as preludes to the exercise of market power. The implied view of the price mechanism differs widely between the PJT and the IAC especially in reference to the relevance of cost movements. Here the theories used by the IAC dispute that movements in domestic costs in individual industries are reflected in prices; the PJT has built its operation largely on the premise that they would be. 
I think that the time has come in Australia when we have to reconcile the operation of a number of economic control bodies. On one hand we have the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which is resigned to regulate or justify the payment of wages. Wages are still the major source of income in Australia and wage earners are still the major source of consumer expenditure in Australia. On the other hand there. is the Prices Justification Tribunal. Its annual report contains some rather interesting figures on the number of firms which come within its ambit, and it states: 
At the end of June 1 976, the Tribunal had 480 prescribed enterprises recorded in its register. The term 'enterprise' is here used to include single companies and 'groups' of companies as described in section 5 ofthe Prices Justification Act. 
Associated with these enterprises were 4427 related companies. A breakdown of the enterprises by recent annual turnovers, according to information available to the Tribunal, is set out below. 
There were 34 firms which had a turnover of between $20m and $25m, 48 firms with turnovers between $25m and $30m, 52 firms with turnovers between $30m and $35m, 44 firms with turnovers between $35m and $40m, 25 firms with turnovers between $40m and $45 m, 16 firms with turnovers between $45m and $50m, and 261 firms, close to two-thirds of the total, with turnovers of $50m or more. One can make the rough economic calculation that two-thirds of the total activity is within the ambit of those 26 1 companies and their alliances. 
On the other hand, if one is talking about the consumer price index, for the most part we are talking about retail prices. Many of the prices that the Prices Justification Tribunal is concerned with are not so much retail as wholesale prices. In fact, had I had my way in regard to the Tribunal I would not have put retail pricing within its ambit. I believe retail pricing is better controlled in the hands of the States. This simply shows the difficulties we have in a federal system. It is all right for the Government to take great unction to itself about new federalism and saying that it is neatly encompassed in giving back a little of the income tax to the States. The variety of economic activity in Australia is diversified. There are 2 important places still as far as prices are concerned and they are the cities of Sydney and Melbourne. I have long believed that State governments have been very recalcitrant in not doing anything in the great arena of retail pricing. After all, what can be done in Canberra about the prices in the supermarkets of Melbourne or Sydney? Perhaps  Mr Wran  will be able to set a leading example in this direction to the State of Victoria. 
I believe that the time has come when there has to be some co-operation and cohesion between the various mechanisms operating in Australia. After all, we set up the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission because of the belief that the community, while applauding the virtues ofthe market system, knows that in practice it does not operate. The big operators are very big and the small operator has very little chance in the face of the existence of the big operators. One of the means of slightly mitigating things in favour of the small operator is to have restrictive practices legislation. I regard as sheer nonsense the views uttered at the level of government at the moment about inflation causing unemployment, as though the whole of the unemployment in Australia would go away tomorrow if by some miraculous means we were able to eliminate inflation. The structural problems inherent in Australian industry are not being looked at at the moment. It may be a sort of truism that people are not going to invest more in a particular aspect of industry because they cannot get a high enough price for what they sell to recoup their costs, including their capital costs. For a firm to come along and merely say that if the Government lets it have the price it will guarantee to re-invest, in my view is not a sufficient sort of test. 
I must say, from reading in detail over a period some of the cases of the Prices Justification Tribunal, that that Tribunal, in granting companies a profit kind of assumption, at least wanted to be assured that the investment was going to take place. On the other hand I think we have come to a stage in Australia now where occasionally we have to say that maybe it is time we stopped expanding investment in certain industries and encouraged it in others. These seem to me to be the kind of things we have to begin to work out between the 3 bodies. 
We have the Industries Assistance Commission to encourage and assist Australian industry. Now we have the great riddle presented by the Jackson Committee which tells us that if manufacturing industry is to have much of a future it has to have it in export industry rather than in local industry. Until the recent devaluation, at least, it was pretty hard to come up with likely successful candidates to expand exports of manufactures in Australia in the foreseeable future. I am not too sure that altering the currency ratio by the stroke of a pen is going to produce the miracle either as far as manufacturing is concerned. It may be that in Australia we will have to reconcile ourselves to manufacturing being a smaller total provider of total employment in the future than in the past. We ought to be planning where the jobs are to be found for those who want to seek them. I have long said that in this country we have been training people to do jobs that will not be available and nave not been training them for jobs that are necessary for the future. I suppose that involves getting down to a study of the education system in relation to industry and its needs. 
The Government has gone through traumatic experiences. It has been very nice for it in the last 12 months to blame everything that has gone wrong on the fact that we had a different government for the last 3 years. I have said over and over again that the problems in Australia are not essentially different from the problems in the United States of America, in West Germany and in the United Kingdom, to take only a few examples. The problem is that increasingly the pattern of industry in the manufacturing arena is large scale with a tendency to have more in the service and tertiary fields. I have had it thrown back at me for saying, as I did on one occasion, that one man's increase in wages may be another man's job. Nevertheless increases in wages are going on in some areas. The fact that the wage is as it is, at the margin, and may preclude an additional one or two people being taken on is not the answer to the 400 000-odd people in Australia who are out of work. 
I think we delude ourselves by using easy sorts of slogans, just as I think the views of honourable members on this side are rather exaggerated at the moment in thinking that there will be some immediate impact on prices in Australia because of the devaluation. If one looks at what is imported into Australia one finds that producers ' materials are 40 per cent of total imports and that capital equipment is 29 per cent of total imports. About  II  10ths of what is imported into Australia is the potential for new investment in industry in Australia. That is where the hurt will be as a result of devaluation. After all, the Government was claiming that it wanted to stimulate investment. Insofar as investment means new capital equipment, a fair part of which unfortunately still has to be imported, it certainly will be dearer in future by something like 17½ per cent to 20 per cent, and therefore not so likely to be attractive. This is independent of any action of any body such as the Industries Assistance Commission, the Trade Practices Commission or the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
I think it is time that the economy of Australia was looked at as a whole. I suppose the majority of people, fortunate or doomed, in the next 30 years will be employees in either the private or the public spheres. They will be wage earners. On the other hand I still believe that the greatest stimulus to expanding economic activity in Australia is a rise in real consumer income. The Government is caught between those two. Wages are a cost but there is also the customer to be considered. A government has to tread the very narrow path that leads between right and wrong or between bad and good economic common sense. 
I do not deny the importance of the mining industry to Australia, but I must say that I have a few more reservations than my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has about the taxation system being the best way to reward the rnining industry. If I may say so, the amendments that are propounded here are pretty handsome rewards indeed to very limited sections of the totality of the Australian economy. It is nice to talk about mining as though there were a lot of humble prospectors digging holes here, there and everywhere, perhaps running risks, some being rewarded and some not. But the basic minerals we are talking about at the moment are the 2 great ones, coal and iron. Australia happens to have a magnificent abundance of both. Candidly, I have the old-fashioned view that they belong to the people of Australia because they are in the ground, but we seem somehow to think that somebody who happened to hit upon them is entitled thereafter to exploit the rest of the community. I do not know why we needed American techniques to develop the coal industry in the State of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is trying to interject. The coal deposits were virtually handed to the companies involved by the Premier of Queensland so far as the terms of exploitation are concerned. Admittedly, we get a fair bit of it back because company tax, being as high as it it - 
If the mining companies make a profit something like half of it is taken back in net tax. But the Government objected to what we regarded as an excess profits tax- and there was no doubt who the principal victim would have been. Candidly I could not see anything wrong with it. The firm concerned, Utah, had a bonanza on very favourable terms, yet the Government objected on the grounds that it would hurt somebody else. It it was genuine about hurting the small people, fair enough, but I think the Government was unduly solicitous about what it did to the big people in the process. I do not deny that there are more prospects, resource wise, for getting value for money out of developing mining in Australia in the next ten or fifteen years than out of probably any other enterprise we can think of, but I do not think that is any reason to featherbed the companies and to use the tax system to reward people for basically exploiting the nation's resources. 
I am surprised in some respects at the attitude of my friend, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  for whom I have great respect because he is a person who at least applies himself to the anatomy of these debates. I do not believe that the tax system should be used in this way. After all, there is an argument as to whether the write-off ought to be 20 per cent over a 5-year reducing period or whether, as my colleague suggested, there should be a 10-year period. It makes a lot of difference to the mining company that one is chosen rather than the other. I should have hoped that there would have been more extensive debate about this than there has been. 
-I do not think it should be any better treated. What I am trying to suggest is that it is different from any other industry. The honourable member referred to the mining industry. He should at least define what the mining industry is. He mentioned the figures for exports in these areas. I have the figures for the year 1974-75 with regard to the export of iron ore and coal. Receipts for the export of coal amounted to $664m and for iron ore the amount was $707m. Something like 80 per cent of the total went to one country, Japan. It went via one or two big endues. When one is talking about the mining industry, I think, with all respect that one is talking about 2 pretty gigantic areas. One is not talking about little people digging small holes. One is talking about big undertakings, mostly foreign owned, if I may say so regretfully, which are taking, at terms very advantageous to themselves, Australia's natural resources and exporting them to another country. I have no objection to Australia sensibly giving to another country access to the things that it has in abundance, but I have a great resentment of featherbedding those who are doing very well already. The amendments in this BUI make those who are very well off, without them very much better off in future. 
I do not want to get into the argument tonight about devaluation. It has happened. I have always taken the prudent course; I think the Government was foolish not to defend the position that it claimed it wanted to defend. I believe that it caved in to resistance within its own ranks. I think that whereas previously the only ramp that was organised in favour of devaluation was a rural one, on this occasion it was joined by mining and manufacturing interests and it proved to be an irresistible force. I was a little intrigued to hear the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  say that he believed the currency was over-valued when the Government came to office. He certainly took a long time to reach his decision. If he wanted to devalue then, he ought to have done it then. When he kept saying over and over again that the Government would hold the currency at its former rate, I think that the Government proved recreant to the sense of responsibility that a proper government ought to have. Nevertheless, there is no doubt who some of the main beneficiaries Will be. They have contracts for coal and iron that are written in yen or in US dollars. They will be considerable beneficiaries when their costs are incurred in Australian dollars. I suppose we can console ourselves because we receive near enough to half the profit. That seems to me to be very cold consolation. 
I want to say one or two things about taxation generally. I must say that I am pleased that the cold-hearted Treasurer has, at long last, yielded to what I regarded as the moral promise I gave when I was Treasurer. That was that the funds of the thalidomide victims would be free of tax. I have the greatest admiration for the officials of the Taxation Office. While they offered aU sorts of objections to me, I said this was one of the decisions I wanted to make. I do not believe that there is any case in history like it and I hope that there will subsequently be no other case like it either. To suggest that if one assists these people one must do something for victims of recurring societal accidents was, I think, a lot of nonsense. I am pleased to see that the Treasurer has finally yielded. 
The honourable member for Lilley made a great play about how taxation has been reduced and about the difficulties of comparing this with that. It will be very difficult from now on to compare the yields of taxation year by year now that this new system of taxation has been introduced. I invite the honourable gentleman to look at what is expected to be gathered from personal income tax. My mathematics show that this year there will be a 25 per cent difference in the yield from personal income tax. It is all right to say that if this had not been done it would have been great. But what is taxation reduction about? Surely the Government reaches a point at which it concludes it is taking too much. If the Government then makes reductions and takes great credit to itself, saying: 'Had we not altered this, the yield would have been so much', again I ask: 'What is it that we are really talking about?' 
Honourable members opposite claim to be the reducers of taxes. I am not the great admirer, as some honourable members opposite are, of the so-called indexation formula. I suggest that it is so cast that it means least to the person at the bottom of the wage scale and most to the person at the top. It is not the sort of formula that I would regard as the most equitable. AU it does is alter the pace at which a person goes from step to step within the scale. The greatest advantage is to those people higher up the scale. It does not matter that the formula is called indexation. It is like a lot of other things to which certain names are given. A lot of people are confused by the giving of names. 
The same confusion arises with what is called accounting for inflation. Mostly the accounting for inflation makes great play about the asset side of the balance sheet and ignores altogether the liabilities side. I am still one who believes that if the fault is in the accounting period we perhaps should have daily, monthly or quarterly balances. But we have the yearly balance because unfortunately government accounting is involved with the financial year. I wish at least a little more time was devoted to the fact that no matter how the assets are depreciating equally so are the liabilities. Most balance sheets as I understand them finish with an overdraft rather than with a net asset position. Naturally to that extent they are more concerned about the liability part than the asset part. These sorts of things are not intelligibly discussed in Australia. Always it is the vested interest that seems to gain the day. I think the accounting profession in Australia has been very slow to decide any accepted standards about the so-called accounting for inflation. There is certainly no degree of unanimity among members of the accounting profession or among the various firms. The attitude differs from firm to firm according to the nature of the business that is transacted. We all tend to get caught up and say that we have to adopt the Mathews report even though it had reservations and made some distinctions between financial and nonfinancial companies and so on. 
I have been in this House a pretty long time. I had to bear the burden of handling income tax Bills for the Opposition for a long time. Income tax is the singly most important tax in the tax collection field. Looking at the overall situation this financial year we will get nearly $9 billion from pay-as-you-earn taxation, $2V4 billion from other taxation- that is from provisional and other tax payers- and near enough to $3 billion from company taxation. We are dealing with a total collection of more than $14 billion. The whole substance of this is disposed in the House annually by a couple of hours of debate. Most of tonight s debate has been beclouded by the virtue the Government has ascribed to itself for the great job it is doing for the mining industry. A great job has been done for the mining industry but if I may say so I think it has been done at the expense of the rest of the people of the Australian community. It is fair enough to give justice to the mining community; but who can say that these measures are justice? In my view they are extended benevolence. Had the devaluation come earlier the Government might not have been so disposed to give the taxation concessions that have now been given. The Government has backed both horses and both have come home as winners in somewhat different races. It is a very heavy penalty for the rest of the Australian community to pay. 
I am sorry in some ways that the time left for me to speak is so short and that the time of night is so late. The sad thing from counting the heads at the moment, is that far more officials are listening to what is being said than there are members in the chamber taking part in what is being done. I do not underestimate the importance now and in the future to Australia of the mining industry, but I certainly do not believe that the tax system is the best way to look at that sort of problem. 
Let me take a moment or two to refer to this curious thing called the interest equalisation scheme. I thought the drought bonds were silly enough. I did my best to abolish them, but I found some resistence even from my own side. That scheme has been abolished but in its place is something that in my view is quite inequitable. We are told that the total accumulated deductions at any one time allowable to a deposit will be subject to an upper limit of $100,000. What sort of system is it that we are talking about? I do not deny that farmers are in a desperate plight. Does the Government think that because farmers have been in a desperate plight for some time they will now suddenly say 'thank you' because taxes will be eased on income that no doubt they would be using to liquidate their debts? Does the Government think that farmers will be able to pay amounts of up to $100,000 into some sort of fund and have that money taxed on a different basis? I wish the Government would find out how many would receive the benefit and how many would be excluded when it takes the realities of the parameters of such a scheme into account. 
-Who do the organisations represent? I wish the organisations would look at the totality of the producers. It is easy to get on the bandwagon and become the great advocate for something that is regarded as a panacea and which potentially is hardly available to anybody but miraculously is available to one or two. I regard this sort of scheme in that sort of context. The aspiration was good but the anatomy was not subject to enough analysis. I hope that the scheme will be looked at in that sort of aspect. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the widespread concern throughout the trade union movement at the appointment of a presidential member of a panel of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission who only 2 days before the announcement of his appointment to the Commission appeared to argue the employers' case against the major union within the jurisdiction of that panel? Can the Minister outline the scope of the powers enjoyed by the presidential member of a panel under section 23 (3) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act? 
Does the Minister believe that the appointment of a panel head who has been involved so recently in the disputes affecting a union under the jurisdiction of that panel will be detrimental to industrial relations and harmony within that industry? Finally, is the Minister aware that the Storemen and Packers Union of Australia yesterday morning withdrew from the proceedings in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission because of the appointment of that particular presidential member to head the panel which deals with that union? 
-The matter of public importance brought forward by my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  states: 
The actions of the Fraser Government which have increased the cost of living. 
The only fault that I can find with that wording is that it should have said: 'have increased and are still increasing the cost of living'. Most of the debate has centred on what I might colourfully describe as that archaeological exhibit- the December consumer price index. After all, the December CPI, which was only published today, 22 February 1977, reflects for the most part the prices of items at about the middle of November. In some cases it reflects the price of motor vehicle components as far back ago as October 1976. All that the December issue of the index does is to carbon date the changes that have already taken place. 
There has been some intriguing dissection of the figures to take out what is supposed to be a once and for all effect. It is suggested that once we have done that the underlying trend shows a decline in the rate of inflation. In fact the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  went so far as to say that the Medibank component of the CPI had nothing to do with the inflationary pressures in the Australian economy today. I would suggest to him that what the Medibank levy does is to make the majority of people less able to meet the consequences of inflationary pressures because they now pay a levy in the face of an inflationary situation. I had questions thrust at me not much more than a couple of years ago and I would say that 12 per cent inflation was better than 14 per cent but not as good as 10 per cent. But any of those figures are unsatisfactory. 
This Government is in office virtually because it painted the economic picture so gloomily and attributed the whole of its consequences to the Labor Government's 3 years in office. The Fraser Government has been in office for fairly close to half its term now. The fateful 11 November 1975 was the date it came to power, and it is now 22 February 1977. How much longer is it to lay the blame for what is happening now upon what happened under Labor? I suggest it is time to look a little more systematically at the situation. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  to his consolation, may believe that the underlying trend in inflation is a downward trend. It seems to me very hard to say that 2.9 per cent is very much better than 3.2 per cent or that 2.5 per cent is much better than 2.7 per cent. The Government can score those points if it likes, but if for the purposes of argument the Medibank component is separated, the underlying trend is defined by a figure of above 10 per cent. I think one of the great boasts was to bring it to less than double digits. 
-By June this year. The purpose of this matter of public importance is to suggest what the Fraser Government has done and, I add, is still doing will not bring this figure down. As I have suggested already, there is a lot in the pipeline for the March quarter. In fact, mostly the March quarter figure is determined now because we have passed the middle of the period, which is 14 or 15 February. So the March quarter figure will show prices now. Would anyone suggest that prices have fallen between the middle of November and the middle of February? I suggest the contrary. 
This is the point I want to make: If there is an overall decline in the rate of inflation I suggest the reason is the indexation of wages. What did the Treasurer say here the other evening when he delivered a famous economic homily? He said that the Government would go into the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and argue that indexation should cease- not that wages should be adjusted for the full CPI increase but that they ought not to be adjusted at all. If this is supposed to gird the workers to cope with inflatio.1 that has already taken place, again it mystifies me. 
There has been no mention yet of the action taken after 15 November to devalue the Australian currency. Surely no one on the Government side would argue that devaluing the currency will reduce prices in Australia. What has it already done to the price of the motor car, the price of which for the purposes of the CPI was the price in October or November? What happens to all the producer goods that are to be imported? A very large component of Australia 's imports is still producer goods. Are they to be cheaper? Will they not be dearer because of the effects of inflation? What about the redistributive effects of increased incomes in one section on exports. The tendency will be to pass the increases round the rest of the economy in the only way possible; that is, in higher wages. 
I suggest that it is time we got away from scoring the points to which I have referred. We have this ominous day when we publish the quarterly consumer price index figures, which are by then out of date, as I have suggested. Why are we not smart enough in this country to have monthly figures? If we had them maybe it would bore us to death to go through this agony every month instead of only every 3 months, but it might help to focus out minds on the real issue. We have one monthly figure-the figure for food. According to the new index, food is now a smaller component than before. The food component is now 2 1 per cent. If my memory serves me correctly it used to be something like 27 per cent. Now only nearly as big in the determination of the CPI is an item called 'transportation'. Food is 21.026 per cent and transportation is 18.453 per cent. I doubt whether there are many sections of the Australian community, particularly those on minimum wages- the minimum wage at the moment is about $135- whose food component is as little as 27 or 28 per cent. In other words, perhaps the index is false as far as they are concerned and it underestimates the true impact of inflation in the community. 
I submit that rather than the Government trying to justify what it has done it is time it began to accept some responsibility as custodian of the economy as we find it in February 1977, not as it was or as the Government claims it was prior to the beginning of 1973. There are problems to be solved. I believe they are structural. I do not believe that the Government has yet grappled with these problems; nor, if I may say so with respect, did the previous Government. But if we do not begin soon it will be at our own peril. 
I am somewhat astonished that the debate on a trade practices Bill has turned into a discussion on trade unions. Trade practices law has been in force in the United States since about 1890 and in the United Kingdom somewhat latterly, but always trade unions have been excluded from its ambit. What are trade practices supposed to be about? It is astonishing that at the moment, apart from the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  there are only 2 honourable members on the Government side of the chamber, when during the whole of the debate honourable members opposite have been bashing trade unions. I submit, with respect, that in other countries with whom we like to compare ourselves- the two that I know best are the United States and the United Kingdom- trade . unions are specifically excluded from the ambit of trade practices. I suggest sensibly that when we are talking about trade practices we are talking about the operations of rather large business in relation to smaller units. 
While the Minister is taking counsel at this point, we should at least get down to some parameters. Trade unions, after all, are organisations of people within particular industries to protect themselves from the organisation of capital, if you like, and economic power and so on. Trade practices, as I understand it, should relate to the operations of businesses. I respect the Minister at the table as being an honourable gentleman. Trade unions are organised to protect the individual worker against the rapacity of organised capital. But the term 'trade practices', in my view, has a certain meaning. I repeat, the law in the United States and the law in the United Kingdom, upon which we model ourselves, exempts trade unions from the operation of trade practices law. For some reason the Government seems to want to bring them within the ambit of this legislation. It can make this legislation as restrictive as it wants to and as rapacious as it needs to; but we have a Conciliation and Arbitration Act which is supposed to regulate the operations of trade unions. Trade unions are not trade practising organisations.  Mr Minister,  may I have your attention? 
-A11 right; but surely certain decencies of debate ought to be observed in this place. 
I do not talk unless I feel I have something to say. I hope that the Minister will listen. I believe that the Minister has certain feelings about things. Honourable members may accept the Galbraith thesis about countervailing power- that the 2 great powers in the community are capitalism on the one side and the trade unions on the other- but that is not what trade practices regulations are about. Trade practices regulations concern the acknowledgment that there are some big economic units of operation and some small ones. 
This has been a union bashing debate. In the 2 countries with which we compare ourselves, I hope honestly- that is, the United States and the United Kingdom- trade unions are exempted from the operations of trade practices regulations. For some obscure reason, which the Minister has not explained, he has sought to bring trade unions within this legislation. Trade unions have power, and thank God they do. The Government might not like the way they exercise that power. It is a collective power, but it is not the same as what is called 'trade practices'. The title of this legislation is the 'Trade Practices Act'. In what respect are trade unions brought within the ambit of trade practices? I think it is time that this question was asked. I am sorry that it took us so long to have a trade practices law. I am sorry that the Government now seeks to amend that law and to bring in something that was never brought into the equivalent legislation in the 2 comparative countries, the United States and the United Kingdom. Why does the Government not bring trade associations and boards of directors within the ambit of this legislation? In what respect are trade unions regarded as being perpetrators of trade practices? I hope the Minister will take up this point. I have listened to this debate and to what honourable members opposite have had to say. I can understand their not liking trade unions. 
Does the honourable member like them? 
-I hope he does like them. I hope there is an acknowledgment that trade unions are a necessary part of the division of economic power in the community. But surely this is not what we are talking about in trade practices regulation. If the honourable gentleman wishes to suggest that it is, that is fair enough; but, in the 2 great countries with which we compare ourselves, the Sherman Act in the United States goes back as far as 1890 and similar legislation in the United Kingdom was introduced a little more latterly. If honourable members wish to compare our country with Bulgaria, China, Portugal, or somewhere else, let us hear it; but in both the United States and the United Kingdom trade unions do not come within the ambit of trade practices regulation. Why are they brought into this legislation? I should like to have an answer. 
-Exactly, they hate unions. But they have to acknowledge the existence of unions. Astonishingly, in the odd homily that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  delivered the other night, one of the reasons given for inflation becoming slightly less than it used to be was indexation- a kind of compact between the two sides. In my view, inflation will not be halted unless we have some trustful co-operation between employer and employee groups, with the Government being an honest broker between the two; but the other night the Treasurer said that he was going to be so honest as to say that he thought there should not be a plateau system but there should be a zero level in future adjustment of wages. 
This would mean, in real terms, a reduction of the purchasing power of the great majority of people in the community. I have great respect for the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I hope that he might be one of the honourable parts of what I might call the 'honourable brokerage', but I do not think there will be such a brokerage. With great respect to the Minister, I ask: Why is it sought here, unlike in the 2 major countries with which we like to compare ourselves- the United States and the United Kingdom- to bring trade unions within the ambit of restrictive trade practices regulation? After all, in my view regulation of restrictive trade practices means the regulation of big business because big business can become so powerful in relation to the total economy that it has to be regulated. 
If the honourable member thinks that unions are in the same league or even on the same level as big business, let him say so; but that is not really the case in respect of restrictive trade practices regulation. It is an acknowledgment that some areas of economic activity are so significant in their totality that they intrude into what might be called the individual's freedom. If the Government thinks that unions do the same, it can amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. But 2 animals that are not recognisable together are being mixed together when unions are brought within the ambit or restrictive trade practices regulation. I think this is what we have sought to point out during this debate; but all we have heard is the bashing of unions. If honourable members opposite want to say that they do not like unions, this is fair enough. I can acknowledge that. But they have to live with unions. The Australian community would not survive without them. Surely the Government has to have some sensible cognisance of how we live together. 
I have heard it said in recent days, and I shall repeat it, that the Australian economy at the moment will not survive unless there is tolerance between employers and employees, with the Government being, at best- I hope not at worst- an honest broker. That is not what is happening at the moment. We have heard already the Treasurer saying that he will be going before the Arbitration Commission in a few days. I do not know whether he is the one who goes before the Commission. He will not say that he wants plateau indexation. He will say that he wants zero indexation. What does that mean to ordinary people? One can argue that the CPI is dishonest because the Government has imposed upon people a levy that they cannot avoid paying. This has been reflected in the index and it makes the December quarter rise of 6 per cent. Honourable members opposite have said that if the levy had not been imposed the CPI increase would have been 2.8 per cent. It could have been 2.8 per cent if honourable members opposite had not changed the system. Now honourable members opposite are bringing restrictive practice clauses into an area that was never regarded as being related. 
I have heard so much piety in the last few days about small business. Surely restrictive practice is supposed to do something about helping the small as against the big. All honourable members opposite do is to intrude unions into the area. The Minister whom I respect - 
-I respect him for different sorts of reasons. This proposal is in defiance of all the accepted practices adopted- in the places with which we like to compare ourselves when it suits us. I refer to the United States and the United Kingdom. They have specifically exempted trade unions from the ambit of trade practice regulations. Candidly I think honourable gentlemen opposite are mixing oil and whatever else cannot be mixed. 
Fair enough, water. In addition they are not putting oil on troubled waters; they are troubling the waters more than they should. Surely to goodness we should argue these matters in this chamber. Throughout this debate I have listened to people union bashing- I think that is the respectable term. Trade unions are an essential part of the Australian economy. Trade associations are an essential part of the Australian economy. But restrictive practice is not about that. Restrictive practice is about the power of big business in relation to the totality of the economy and somehow we have to intrude government power to do justice between the producer and the consumer. That is not what trade union organisation is about. Trade union organisation is about employee organisation as against employer organisation. 
The honourable member can refer to political strikes if he likes. If we examine why political strikes take place we will find that they are more likely to take place if honourable members opposite pass this stupid sort of legislation that they are now perpetrating. I accept the fact that the honourable gentleman probably does not know much about trade unions He probably knows a lot about trade organisations. This legislation is not about trade organisations. It is an attempt to deal with trade unions. The legislation acknowledges that in the community certain organisations by reason of their existence can be more powerful against the community than others. The Government is trying to intrude to regulate that. I said earlier that I acknowledge the Minister's humility. Humility is a great virtue which does not exist very much in Australia at the moment. Trade practices regulation in my view has nothing to do with trade union organisation. Honourable members opposite are trying to relate the 2 things. With all respect to honourable members opposite, all the speeches in this debate have been about that rather than about what ought to be considered. There are magnitudes of power and minitudes of power and some difficulties in a democratic system. To divide between magnitudes and minitudes is what government organisation in the finish is about. I would have thought that that is what trade regulation practice is all about. 
I should like to draw attention to one of the sentences in what is called  Her  Majesty's Speech, but which everybody knows is the expression of the Government of the day. It is:   . . the progress of Australia as a nation depends on creating the conditions which foster the strength, independence and creativity of its people. 
What the previous gentleman has just said would seem to me to negate a large part of the creativity of the Australian people because it is expressed in his hostility to the trade union movement. 
I did not interject on you, comrade, and you have been here a very short time. If I may suggest it, you are not going to be here a very long time. The remark on the next page of  Her  Majesty's Speech brings home the whole problem of the situation of the Australian economy.  Her  Majesty goes on to note- I say again that it is this Government that goes on to note: 
The prosperity of the Australian people depends on the strength of its productive private sector, on its manufacturing, rnining and rural industries. 
The previous speaker has the great grace to disappear after boring us for 20 minutes. I suppose he is going out to receive the adulation of the Press representatives, who are not here either. 
I want to draw attention to a set of figures that were published on 1 March, headed 'Australian National Accounts 1975-76, Gross Domestic Product at Current and Constant Prices'. It gives a tabulation over a 12-year period. It shows that what is called final consumption expenditure divided between the private sector and government in 1964-65 was roughly $12 billion private to $2 billion government or, if you like, a factor of 6: 1. By 1975-76-the latest year available-the figures have risen to $41.5 billion private to $11 .5 billion government, or a factor of 4: 1 . 
-Well, I think it shows the reality of the economy. With all respect to honourable members opposite, I do not think that they acknowledge the realities of the economy. In fact if one might typify this speech, it reminds me of what the great Lord Keynes said some 50 years ago about a then Tory Government. He said: They won't promise what they can't perform. Therefore they promise nothing.' Candidly, I think that what this Speech shows is a promise of nothing because they do not know what to do. 
A lot of nonsense has been spoken this afternoon and the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  was one of the perpetrators. It is easy enough to say that everything happened between the beginning of 1973 and the end of 1975. 1 shall refer to a few statistics. The number of persons registered for unemployment at the end of June 1971, which was right in the middle of the great prosperity era of honourable members opposite, was 66 000. Twelve months later, at the end of June 1972, it had risen to 99 000- an increase of 50 per cent in 12 months. After the first impact of the terrible Labor Government it fell to 81 000 in June 1973, and fell again in June 1974 to 78 000. 1 do not discount the figures. It rose at the end of June 1975 to 245 000. Honourable members opposite say that it was all due to the terrible Labor Government. At the moment, not much more than a year after their Government was elected it is 350 000- an increase of 50 per cent in not much more than a year. 
I suggest that the Government is not grappling with the realities of the situation. Honourable members opposite came into government in this country by painting themselves into a corner. They said that the Australian economy was bad, and it was bad for one reason only- that they were not the Government. The 2 things that they said they would correct were inflation and unemployment. The position in each area has deteriorated since they came to office. They gave glib assurances. I have heard the nonsense that it was this Government that took pensions out of politics. This Government was the first government which said it would make 2 annual increases in pensions, in the Budget Session and the Autumn Session. Now they quibble about the rise being related to the consumer price index or the average weekly earnings. 
You do, for one. This afternoon you talked that sort of nonsense about what the Government did for the first time. You said that the Government took pensions out of politics. I do not want to get diverted by that sort of issue. I ask honourable members opposite again to look at some figures published recently about total employment in Australia. Surely this is what they ought to be looking at. Fortunately, at the moment, total employment is beginning to increase. When one looks at how total employment is increasing, one sees that it is increasing by a decrease in male employment and an increase in female employment. Maybe this has a lot to do with Women's Lib and so on. I still believe that our society and its integrity depend on the male wage earner- basically the single wage earnernot the 2-income family. Honourable members opposite do not mention much about the fact that there has been quite a selective interpretation of statistics- the one that suits them best. The Australian economy was never as bad as they painted it to get us out of office. They painted it so bad that they destroyed the confidence of business institutions and what they have done so far has done little to restore that confidence. Honourable members on the Government side cannot live any longer- I said this in a speech a few weeks ago- half way through their first term of office by saying that everything that is bad is due to the situation that they inherited from the previous Government. I repeat that they will not promise what they cannot perform because they cannot perform. The sooner the Australian community acknowledges this, the better. 
The 2 central problems in this economy are still inflation and unemployment. The two are related, but in a somewhat different form to the way in which honourable members opposite think they are related. The main contributors to consumer expenditure in Australia are still the wage earners. The only means of lining real consumer expenditure is to increase real wages, and surely that is the argument before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. One of the realities of the Australian economy- I think it is part of the humanity of the tradition of the countryis that even if a person is out of work he will not be allowed to starve. It is about time that we began to acknowledge the difference between not allowing people to starve on the dole and the responsibility for placing them in creative employment in the Australian economy. The Government is not facing up to the situation. Some tribute was paid to my colleague the former Minister for Labour, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  He began systematically in Australia in 1973 what should have begun in Australia in 1953. He began a sensible manpower poliCY. Manpower and the training behind it are tied up with education and everything else. I am surprised now at some of the industrial tycoons who are beginning to say that people are being trained in schools for jobs which do not exist and that they are not being trained in the skills that a new society needs. I said that in speeches which I made in this House nearly 20 years ago. 
I talked to members of my own economic committee recently. Everybody uses the words 'primary', 'secondary' and 'tertiary'. The other day I came across an article which contained a new word. I asked members of my committee whether they had heard it. 'Primary ' means first, secondary' means second and 'tertiary' means third. Somebody has now coined the word 'quaternary' which apparently means the fourth level. Just as the word 'tertiary' came into existence to acknowledge that the words 'primary' and 'secondary' were not competent to explain the needs of society, the word 'quaternary' has now come into existence to explain the fourth level- the knowledge providers, the technocrats and so on. Maybe the use of this word is a miserable attempt to indicate some of the changes that are upon us. We have to acknowledge that changes are upon us. Australia has to acknowledge this internally and externally. 
We have to sell our products. Surely members of the National Country Party of all people ought to know this. They are great ones for telling us about the beef industry, the wheat industry, the sugar industry and so on. I do not wish to discuss those matters tonight. I do not have the time to do so. We cannot be free traders when it comes to selling and protectionists when it comes to buying. In many ways Australia with its geographical position, is one of the most vulnerable countries. In many respects it is in the unique position of still being one of the great food providers of the world. I shall not go into detail about that subject either tonight. I may cross some fences in my own Party about something called the Gregory thesis. The Gregory thesis is a simple expression of what in my student days was called an example of uneven economic development. If there is an excess in one part of an economy it must have repercussions upon the other parts. What Australia has to acknowledge is that we live in a world where there are great differences of economic development. In my view we are in a unique position to be an assister to the rest of the world. That objective may require some structural adjustment internally, but structural adjustment is never easy to attain. Sometimes, if one does not acknowledge it early, it is thrust upon one and one cannot do much about it. 
During my years as Treasurer I had to attend- I enjoyed the experience- meetings of a group that was called the Committee of Twenty. This group was designed to deal with what was called international monetary reform. In the finish international monetary reform foundered on 2 propositions. One was national sovereignty. Each country thought it was best able to determine its own exchange position. It is a nice nonsense to think that one can do that. But Australia is less in a position than most countries to believe in that nonsense. A country might think that it can do so but in the finish changes are forced upon it. It is always easier for a country not to revalue more than it should, but in the main devaluation is largely forced upon a country, although I do not think this was the case recently. 
Secondly, the Committee foundered upon special drawing rights- known as SDRs- which were concerned with transferring real resources from the wealthy to the poor. In the finish the Committee sensibly divided its activities to deal with monetary reform and the transfer of real resources as separate issues. The National Country Party in particular should be concerned about the transfer of real resources. We hear the great rigmarole- I had to utter it when I was Minister for Overseas Trade and so does the present occupant of the position- that we would like to have a circumstance where for the sale of commodities we could arrive at prices that were fair both to producers and to consumers. As I said to one of my colleagues today, this is about as easy as trying to achieve that other truism about wages, namely, that there should be a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. Different sides of the House have a different concept of each side of the equation. I ask members of the National Country Party in particular to think how they could easily arrive at a price for a commodity which we think is fair to us and does not exploit the consumer. I think sometimes a lot of nonsense is talked at international tribunals that it is easy to do this. We in this country happen to be the fortunate possessors of the ability to expand our production of wheat. I am astonished sometimes when I hear people talking with great adulation now about the sale of wheat to China and beef to Russia. I am not quite sure what they would have said 10 years ago. But now these sales are the saviour of the rural industries in Australia. I think if anything this attitude shows that we are living in one world. 
I do not think I have quoted in this House before an experience that I had when I was a young boy at school. One of my teachers once wrote on brown paper- we did not receive the sort of assistance that is now available educationally 'We are valued only as we make ourselves valuable'. That is the hard lesson for Australia in the future. The rest of the world will not be interested in us unless we have something to provide sensibly and equitably to the rest of the world. 
-At one stage our subscription to the Asian Development Bank was within my jurisdiction. I am not sure whether I was called a governor, but I was associated with the Bank for 2 years. It is interesting to see that the measure has the support of both sides of the House. I would like to draw attention to the inadequacy in the long run of what is being done by all these institutions in relation to the great need that exists. We are talking about a sum of $3,460m or something of the kind. Australia must find about a tenth- $346mYet, the latest annual report of the Asian Development Bank that is available to us, the annual report of 1975, referred to a deficit on an annual basis of between $12 billion and $13 billion that the group of countries that it calls the DMCs- the developing member countries- face. This rather small amount really is inadequate in terms of need. 
We are talking about sums of money, and in the long run sums of money are only sensible in as far as they are able to bring those who want to borrow the money into contact with physical resources that they feel they need. I think I said on an earlier occasion, in the group that was known as the Committee of Twenty in the International Monetary Fund, that in the long run the division over getting international monetary reform went on the rocks for 2 sorts of reasons. Firstly, there was the difficulty of individual nations yielding what they call their national sovereignty over controlling exchange rates. At the other extreme there was the idea that what were called the LDCs- the lesser developed countries -wanted access to real resources that they did not have. 
The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  referred to Japanese contractors being more assiduous, zealous or effective in securing for their country contracts that could be carried out with loans that could be made available by the Asian Development Bank. This simply highlights in some respects the lack of enterprise that is shown by private enterprise in Australia. I know at times one gets squeals of horror from the other side of the House when it is suggested that private enterprise is unenterprising. All I suggest is that in the years ahead Australian enterprise, particularly in construction areas, must seek work outside this continent. To my mind, it is to the credit of the Japanese that they were so enterprising. One of the criticisms when I was attending meetings of the Asian Development Bank was that far too high a proportion of the funds available went to Japanese contractors. The work needed to be done, and the Japanese contractors were more efficient in getting it done. If we belly-ache about it, fair enough. I suggest that we must be more enterprising. It may be that Australian firms will have to work in a consortium rather than tendering individually for contracts. I know that there are all sorts of difficulties. There are difficulties of employing labour. There are difficulties in knowing the law in respect of land in other countries if one wants to establish factories, buy property and so on. All these sorts of difficulty must be overcome. 
I do not know how many members of the House received a copy of a letter that I did from a former colleague from the other side of the House,  Mr Len  Reid. He wrote a letter on behalf of an organisation called 'For Those Who Have Less'. It is a very long letter. I realise that perhaps there are some difficulties involved in what he sees as a simple project. Surely this is the kind of physical, technical and resource problem that we must endeavour to overcome. I would say that it is correct that it would cost something like $500 to ship a beast from Australia, and maybe the $500 could be spent in some other way. Surely when one hears the sorts of questions asked here, particularly by the group which is not represented in the chamber at the moment, the National Country Party, about what it calls the beef crisis, we perhaps should adopt new and novel methods. I commend to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is deputising for the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)-  I think the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is a humane kind of person- that the Treasurer might give serious consideration to the matter raised in  Mr Reid's  letter on behalf of the organisation called For Those Who Have Less. Is it a practical proposition to ship cattle from Australia? I doubt that it is. Surely these are some of the problems that are raised. People say that cattle are being destroyed in Australia when there are hungry mouths to feed somewhere else. Part of the reason for the cattle being destroyed in Australia is the difference in cost between leaving cattle here and sending cattle to somewhere where they can be sold. An economic problem emerges. 
The point which I am trying to highlight in this debate is that these sums of money sound very large, but they are really a very small amount in aggregate when one is dealing with needs. If one takes mainland China out of the consideration and looks at countries such as India, in particular, Pakistan and countries in South East Asia, one is dealing with something like 1000 million people and their needs. Sums of $34m, or $350m over a 10-year period, are not very large. Australia has never begrudged giving assistance. That has not varied whoever was in government at the time. I think we must somehow evolve new techniques to try to make available the capacities which I believe we have and which are not being fully utilised. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro refers to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. This seems to me to be the sort of body that could assist in quite a lot of the irrigation, road construction and damming projects that need to be undertaken in countries not very far from us. I hope that perhaps a little more imagination will be used in bringing together those who have the capacity and those who have the need. I do not think that strict banking canons always bring together those 2 necessary elements. I believe Australians can do more in the development of parts of the world about us. I have said previously that I believe that Australia's defence would be much more adequate if we reduced our total defence expenditure by something like $200m and increased our aid in real physical terms by something like the same amount. I think that in the long run Australia's best defence is in showing not that it can be aggressive but that it can be socially useful to those against whom we somehow believe we must defend ourselves. I think it is time we must acknowledge that we must have defence, but we must ask repeatedly what we are supposed to be defending ourselves against. I do not think that question is asked often enough. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sainsbury)  adjourned. 
I just say publicly to some of the gentlemen in the Press Gallery up there that I intend to be the honourable member for Melbourne Ports for some time to come yet. I address my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Whilst it is realised that difficulties are attached to giving precise meaning to concepts such as common fund and integrated commodity approach, nevertheless considerable areas of good will, both inside and outside Australia, are becoming alienated by what is seen as a negative attitude by our representatives at the Common Fund Negotiating Conference in Geneva. I ask the Minister specifically: Is the Australian Government yet prepared to support a common fund in principle or at least to indicate what it sees as the necessary framework for a viable fund? Secondly, does he acknowledge that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development initiatives to stabilise commodity prices and markets are seen as a crucial first step towards a new economic order by many of our currently friendly neighbours? Finally, is the Minister prepared in the parliamentary sessions following Easter to make a detailed statement setting out the Government's fundamental attitudes towards these important questions? 
Whilst I might agree with my friend the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in a lot of the things he said, I do not agree with his idea that there should be an extension of the amount deductible for income tax purposes for life assurance premiums paid. 
-He did not quite say that but he was getting pretty close to saying that $ 1,200 was not adequate. I point out that that is in the region of $23 a week, and I do not think that the proportion of the Australian public which is able to save that amount is very high. Equally I do not think that the honourable member acknowledged the advantages which have been given to life insurance by the fact that the tax deduction has been allowable. Candidly, if we were starting off in 1977 as though life insurance had never been invented, I am sure we would not embark upon it in anything like the same way. The life insurance industry collects something like $ 1,300m annually in premiums, and I take these figures from the most recent report of the Commissioner for Life Insurance. It collects $7 15m in annual premiums from ordinary business, $553m from superannuation business, and oddly enough it still collects $58m from that curious and highly expensive area called industrial business. That is about $ 1,300m in aggregate, and when one goes a little further into the tabulations one finds that the average interest rate earned on the vast funds which have accumulated over the years is 6.63 per cent; surely a very poor return these days. The next table shows the expense rates for the various types of business - 
-It is complicated. Ordinary insurance costs 32.1 per cent of the premiums to collect, superannuation costs 13.4 per cent, and industrial 37.4 per cent. In other words, on the average it costs over 30 per cent to collect that $ 1 ,300m. When one looks at the revenue forgone by the Government in allowing the concessions for the subscriptions to the policies, the means of organising the funds collected are even less efficient. I do not want to canvass that point very much further, except to say that I hope in the major task of modernising the Life Insurance Act, to which the Minister referred in this speech, some consideration will be given to a wide public examination of the matter. Perhaps linking insurance premiums to tax deductions is the only thing that makes the industry viable, but I think that is a socially inequitable way of doing it. It has been the accepted way in the past, but irrespective of whether the taxation concession is varied I think that the life insurance industry has to examine closely its own future and the terms on which it is likely to be viable. After all, the original purpose behind life insurance was that there was no other provision for retirement or early death. Other arrangements are now made, and I suggest that perhaps the time is right for insurance companies to consider getting out of certain forms of life insurance and looking at more sensible new approaches. I think that the companies are tending to do that. After all, the biggest revolution which has taken place, and it is a very efficient change if one looks at the expense ratio, is that the insurance companies have gone into the superannuation business rather than the old form of endowment and term policies. It is interesting at least to note that gradually superannuation annual premiums are begining to overtake the rest, and that move has also been assisted by taxation because the contribution of the employer is tax deductible in his books, which makes the proposition much more viable. 
I submit that there is a need for a very comprehensive re-examination of the role of life insurance in 1977. 1 got into some hot water with the insurance companies during my term as Treasurer because I urged this upon them. It is easy to say that the tax law can be altered. We could have altered the tax laws much more than we did. Candidly, what we did, arising out of the recommendations of the Coombs Task Force, was to remove what had previously been regarded as an anomaly, but all the belly-aching which went on amongst the insurance companies about that rather minor part of the total situation I think took their minds off the reality of how they are to survive in the next 25 or 30 years. I believe that there is a role for them, but 1 think it is very different from the role they have played in the past. 
I want to talk mostly about the other arena of insurance in Australia. I do not think it is always realised that the premiums paid by individual policy holders to life insurance companies are far less in aggregate that the annual premiums paid by the same population for other forms of insurance- fire employers' hability and so on. In fact, 3 categories mentioned by my friend the honourable member for Lilley and referred to on page 20 of the admirable report of the Insurance Commissioner, if I might agree with the honourable member, show a major loss. Motor vehicle insurance showed a loss of $40m for the year ended 30 June 1975, compulsory third party insurance showed a $36m loss and employers' liability insurance showed a loss of $43m. The report of the Insurance Commissioner goes on to state: 
Losses in these 3 classes accounted for nearly 90 per cent of the underwriting losses other than those arising from Cyclone Tracy. The figures show that in these 3 classes, for each dollar of earned premium, the claims and expenses absorbed: 
The report cites the claims and expenses absorbed for every dollar of earned premium in the case of motor vehicle insurance as $ 1 . 1 3. So it is not a very viable form of endeavour unless the premium is increased. For compulsory third party, $1.74 was absorbed for each dollar of earned premium and for employers' liability, $1.13 was absorbed for each dollar of earned premium. The report goes on to state: 
These 3 classes accounted for more than 60 per cent of all the premiums earned by the private sector in Australia in 1974-75. 
However, one of the greatest organised objections to the Australian Labor Party in the last election was on the part of employees of insurance companies. Candidly, I thought that the companies would have been glad to get out of these 3 areas of insurance - 
The companies are out of most of them and the Insurance Commissioner draws attention to that. Companies in the private area are not accepting compulsory third party insurance any more. What has not been said about employers' liability insurance is that instead of compensating workmen, which is what the aim originally was, the people who are most compensated are the lawyers and doctors in the course of the proceedings. What the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  had in mind when he was Prime Minister was to pass an Act that would take this matter out of the insurance area. My friend opposite, the honourable member for Lilley, thinks that he could somehow separate the welfare part from the rest. Candidly, I do not believe this can be done. I think that accidents in Australia are becoming what might be called 'uninsurable risks'. They arise out of incidents, primarily concerning motor cars and the bad social habits of many of their drivers. I do not know how we can insure against this. Surely there ought to be pity for the innocent victims at times. He should not have to turn to the law to prove what were the obstacles that caused his downfall. I think that one of the most sensible things suggested for the Australian community is national superannuation that would at least cover everybody through life and in retirement. If people want to insure their lives in other ways, they can do so. But they should not expect assistance from the taxpayers generally for so doing. 
I believe equally that in this area of employers ' liability the matter is a social one now rather than an insurable one. I am afraid I have a somewhat different view in this respect than some of my colleagues on this side of the House and the Insurance Commissioner who is the author of this report- about national disaster. I do not think that it is insurable. It occurs and when it does occur its effects are cataclysmic. Living in the area in which I live- 50 yards from the beach- I will not insure against drought. Those who live in the Mallee are not likely to insure against flood. Fortunately cyclones never occur where I live. Their effects would not be felt in Hobsons Bay even if they did. When we talk about natural or national disasters, we must remember that is what they are. They are things that happen that cannot be insured against. In my view, inevitably, it will be the Government that has to pick up the tab when they occur. To think that somehow it can be made a new area of insurance is beyond me. I know that my friend, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  does not agree with me on this. I agree with him on most things. This whole area has been talked about very glibly. Unfortunately, Cyclone Tracy occurred and was preceded very shortly by the Brisbane floods. Certainly, such disasters threw the reinsurance area in Australia into a tailspin. 
I also want to draw the attention of honourable members to the table on page 28 of the Insurance Commissioner's report. He gives the total underwriting expenses to premium income for the various forms of insurance. For every $ 1 paid in premiums for fire insurance, expenses took up 53 cents. For house owners and householders insurance, 53.2 cents of the underwriting dollar was absorbed as expenses. The position in regard to contractors' insurance was a little better at a shade under 40 cents in the dollar. In maritime insurance, underwriting expenses for each dollar of premium amount to 29.27 cents. For motor vehicle insurance, the figure is 26.9 cents and for compulsory third party insurance, it is 18.27 cents. The reason that latter figure is lower than the others is that nearly all such insurance is now taken out with government insurance offices which have a much lower rate of expense to premium income. For employers' liability insurance, 22.49 cents expenditure was incurred for each dollar of premium collected. For public liability insurance, the figure is 40.28 cents and for other categories of insurance, it is 41.33 cents. Does not this sort of thing point to the need for further rationalisation of insurance other than life insurance? 
One good thing has happened because of the insurance legislation to which the Insurance Commissioner draws attention. Previously, there were approximately 400 operators in the general insurance area. That figure has now been halved and is down to about 200 operators. Perhaps there is a case for that number to be even less. What can be more silly than a television advertisement telling people that somehow one company has, for example a better form of fire insurance? Insurers at least ought to ask what is the cost of that advertisement and how many cents from each dollar will be taken out to pay for it. But I am afraid that members of the public are still unduly influenced by the blandishments of advertisers who persuade them that commercial television cost them nothing. These advertisements cost consumers a great deal of money in terms of the end prices. 
These areas are sensitive and I would not like to say at the moment what I think is the overall position of the insurance industry, other than life insurance. I simply ask honourable members to read carefully the total assets of all these 200 non-life companies and at the same time the total liabilities. The difference between them is in the region of $430m. The industry has lost that sum totally in the last 2 years. Whether this gives it a sound margin if it continues to operate in all the areas I leave to the imigination of honourable members. However, I agree with my friend, the honourable member for Lilley, that at times we should have more opportunity to debate this matter in detail. I have no objection to most of the proposed amendments. However, I point out one with which I do not agree. I do not agree with putting what is not the Insurance Appeals Tribunal under the more general control of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It might sound nice and tidy to do that. But the idea of an Administrative Appeals Tribunal was a body for the ordinary citizen to approach when he is aggrieved about something that happens in some government department. But the disputes that arise in insurance are of a technical nature. A tribunal that might be a good one for a general administrative difficulty might not be the right sort of tribunal- certainly it is not in my mindfor a complicated difference of opinion between an insurance company and the Insurance Commissioner. I suggest that the Government ought to have a look at that. Perhaps it was carried away with the euphoria of giving the Administrative Appeals Tribunal something to do. Perhaps it has not had as much work as it was thought it would have. That is a specialist area for dispute and it ought to be so treated. So, I leave it at that. I understand that there is some hurry to finish the second reading debate and to proceed to the Committee stage. However, it does seem to me to be a very large and a very complicated area. 
-Yes, I would not mind it. I could speak for 20 minutes first on life insurance and then on general insurance. But perhaps serious attention ought to be givn to the proposition that there be a general inquiry into the future of insurance in Australia in all its aspects. Such an inquiry could take a year or two to complete, but it could begin to answer sensibly some of the questions that have been raised by my colleague, the honourable member for Adealide  (Mr Hurford),  and which will be raised by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  from South Australia and which have also been raised by an honourable member from the other end of the continent, Queensland. 
-The House is considering 2 Bills. Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1976-77 which provides for expenditure of $247m to the end of this financial year additional to what was estimated and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1976-77 which provides a further sum of $78.5m for what are described as capital items. So, between the 2 of them, those Bills provide for additional expenditure of the order of $326m. Accompanying these 2 Bills is a camouflage document which describes estimated savings on Appropriation Act (No. I). Those estimated savings are stated to be $406.8m. Many speakers on the Government side have suggested that really, therefore, we are spending $80m less. 1 want to take the 2 principal items in the estimated savings to show what humbug is involved. 
The first of the 2 biggest items in the estimated savings of $406m is $67.75m Ibr defence. The details of that saving, as set out on page 20 of the document, reveal that the principal saving is in not buying navy vessels. In the other Appropriation Bill, which sets out the expenditure still to be undertaken, there is an item of $68m. Apparently all that has happened is that instead of spending the money on the Navy, the Government is spending the money on the Air Force. How can this be described as a virtue of saving? It is nothing but sheer camouflage. I think that it is about time there was a little bit more honesty. This document did not exist until lust year, when it was brought in for political reasons. In other years, the usual thing was to show against the Department of Defence the sums that were thought would have been expended when the Budget was drawn up and to match those items with sums that had been expended. I suggest that that was an honest way of doing things. The Government is claiming that it is saving $67m on defence, but in the same breath it is spending a further $68m. So the net effect is that the Government is spending more on defence than it budgeted for at the beginning of the year. 
The other big item shown as a saving is under the Department of Health- an amount of $232,362,000. There was not a word of explanation in the speech of the Treasurer (  Mr Lynch  ) of how this sum was made up. The principal sum is found on page 34 of this camouflage document where it is shown that whereas it had been expected in the Budget that the Government would spend $l,552m on the Health Insurance Fund established by the Health Insurance Act 1973, the Government is spending $2 15,750,000 less. I would have thought that this at least warranted some sort of explanation. I do not believe that the explanation is that the people of Australia are healthier than the Government thought they were. I think that rather it lies in the choice of people between the Medibank and private health insurance provisions. I may be wrong about that, but this amount really is not a saving. The money is being expended in a different way. I think it is about time that this Government began to come clean about the realities of the situation in Australia at the moment. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  drew some great comfort from the fact that whereas last year the gross domestic product was about $70 billion this year he expected it to be $82 billion. Of course he did not say that both figures are expressed in terms of current prices, not constant prices. I suggest that he look at the document brought out by the Commonwealth Statisticians on 1 March entitled Australian National Accounts 1975-76; Preliminary Statement No. 1 -Gross Domestic Product at Current and Constant Prices'. This shows that although it appeared that the gross domestic product had risen from $59 billion to $70 billion between 1974-75 and 1975-76, those figures, expressed in terms  of  average prices related to the base year of 1966-67, show that the difference between the 2 years was not $10 billion but only $600m. I submit that the figure of $82 billion will contain an inflation factor of at least 12 per cent. Whatever comfort the Government is trying to claim at the moment by referring to the March quarter figure, I know that when I tried to claim some comfort by referring to the March quarter a couple of years ago, I was told by the present Treasurer: 'Oh, but the March figure is always a kinder figure than the June figure'. If that information is accurate, I suggest that the Government is being a little bit premature. I know that 2.3 per cent is the figure that the Government would like to multiply by four, which the Treasurer did when it suited him in other days. At least, as I told him recently, he has learnt a bit since he became Treasurer. 
The other thing that a great song and dance are being made about is the deficit. I suppose that in the last 10 or 15 years Australia has had more deficits in the budget account than it has had surpluses. Apparently deficits are always a virtue when honourable members opposite are in office, but they become vicious when somebody else comes to office. The likelihood is that this year the deficit will be greater than the Government anticipated because certain things have eventuated. Whatever the position may look like at 30 June, the Government will have some great problems in the framing of the next Budget by reason of the concessions that have been given already and that will have their impact in the next Budget, such as individual tax indexation and company tax indexation, about which we will say something tomorrow when we are debating the income tax measures. 
This Government is not facing up to the difficulties of the Australian economy. Candidly. I think that there is too much assumption in Australia that governments can remedy all the things that are wrong. Governments cannot remedy all the things that are wrong. 
They can make one bankrupt, they can make one prosperous. The incidence of bankruptcy is not declining under the honourable member's Administration at the moment. I think that one shameful thing is emerging. It seems to be emerging only because New South Wales now has an Attorney-General who is prepared to prosecute for things that were left to fester in the dark before. There have been some rather shameful examples of what those who are regarded as the captains of industry and the leaders of finance have done to companies that were successful until they took over. It astonishes me that 2 individuals can get away with what at first appeared to be $750,000, which surely was a big sum. 1 suggest that there was something wrong with the auditing of the accounts that allowed that to happen, irrespective of how the discrepancy was found ultimately. The horrendous sum was more like $1.5m. This hardly sets an example to the rest of the community whom the Government is telling to tighten their belts or to live within their capacities. I suppose that there can be nothing more inane than for a government to believe blandly that there can be such a thing as a wage freeze and a price freeze. One can never freeze all wages. One never should, because some wages are too low anyway. One should never freeze all prices, because some of them are too high already. Surely, for anybody to believe that he can foist upon a nation some sort of a moral call for a wage freeze is inane. I notice that it is not now being called a wage freeze; it is being called a wage halt. In my view, to think that that simplistic sort of solution is possible shows that ignorance of the Government about the fundamental problems that beset the Australian economy at the moment. 
In this Parliament we talked- I think it was accepted from about 1946 to 1970 at least- about the possibility of full employment. We believed that everybody able and willing to work would find a job. Sensibly, I do not think that full employment ever meant that anybody should hold the same job all his life. I think that is one of the first lessons that has to be learnt. For example, in the 1930s when I got my first employment I could not choose between a multitude of employment opportunities. I took what I thought I was lucky to get. Maybe that sort of situation is beginning to emerge again. I repeat tonight what I have said on a previous occasion. I do not believe that education is only to turn out people to work. There are cultural, social philosophic, musical and aspects other than earning a living. Nevertheless the majority of mankind for a long time is cursed to have to work to get his bread. In my view the education system is training people for jobs that no longer exist and not for jobs that the new emerging society will need filled in the next 25 years. They are the problems the Government should begin to look at. 
Every month we get dismal pictures of the unemployment situation. I suppose the Australian Labor Party won government in 1972 because of the rise in unemployment. It lost in 1975 because unemployment was still rising. That is a very grave portent for the Government side of the House if an election comes along by 1978 and the figures are still rising. At the moment they show no sign of halting. Total employment in Australia really has been stagnant for the last twelve or eighteen months despite the fact that potentially there ought to be nearly 250 000 more people in employment now than there were 18 months ago, but that is not the case. The figure is pretty constant, and the rather alarming thing is that the only plus is an increase in female employment greater than the decline in male employment. Surely this is a fundamental factor in the kinds of attitudes we have come to believe were what underlay the Australian cultural patternsthe dominance of the male breadwinner. Maybe that is not as desirable as was thought, but it is still a majority picture. 
The other great area where there is a decline is in the total number employed in manufacturing. The Labor Government commissioned the Jackson report, and the Jackson Committee made a close examination of the economic situation in Australia. It found out, as I guess anybody who read the monthly publications of the Australian Bureau of Statistics could have, that there was a decline in manufacturing employment in total. Whereas it used to be well over a quarter of total employment it is now 22 or 23 per cent. In my view it is likely to continue to decline unless some substantial structural changes are made. The Jackson report suggested that the great hope for the expansion of manufacturing in Australia in the years ahead was that we should find new export markets. I have asked this question in this House categorically: Who can nominate for me some area of manufacturing industry so called that is likely to increase its exports in the foreseeable future? Maybe we have to resign ourselves to a manufacturing industry capable of satisfying only the home demand. I am not too sure that the sensible answer is to begin a new era of protection to enable what is still there to survive. It has to be a little more subtle and a lot less crude than that kind of approach. 
If in the future manufacturing is not to be the absorber of employment that it was in the past and if we are still to adhere to a belief in full employment, where are we to find the new employment opportunities for those who are able and willing to work? My belief is that most people want to work. They do not want to survive by doing nothing and getting something like half a wage. I am sure they would like to get a proper wage and do something that is creative, constructive and useful for the future of the Australian economy. I am not too sure that in the future we should emphasise that there should be a growth rate every year of X or Y per cent. I am not too sure myself that people are as fussy these days about physical goods as we claimed to be perhaps 25 years ago. There can be a surfeit of physical goods. Nevertheless there are sections in the Australian community with an inadequacy rather than a surplus. 
I listened a few minutes ago to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  introducing a Bill to strengthen the guarantees under the housing loans insurance scheme. Surely one of the great problems in the years ahead will be how the young generation, the people who are now in their twenties, will buy land and build a house in the next five or ten years. On the news this morning I heard that blocks in Canberra were selling for between $7,000 and $8,000. A house costs $25,000 or $26,000. When one has to get finance at 12 percent, 1 3 per cent or 14 percent it is time we had a look at the elements of this problem. We seem to be consoled one month because the applications for building permits have risen. If they should drop we look at the completions or part constructions and so on. We will have a look at matters in depth in the future. Maybe the great thing will not be for everybody to own his own home. I do not know. These are philosophical problems. In the area where I live a solid brick house that was built in 1910 or 1912 on a block with a 35-foot frontage and a 120-foot depth sold the other day for $75,000. If one does a little arithmetic one can see that nobody is going to have it as a rent proposition. It would cost $150 weekly to rent and one would only get a 10 per cent gross return, which would hardly cover any mortgage repayments. 
-I live in an inner area of Melbourne. I think people at long last are realising it is a bit silly to live too far out of the city. Maybe you do have to go up a bit instead of going out. This seems to me to be a question that society has to decide. I wish at times in this Parliament we would look at these questions rather than engaging in blackguarding that all that is wrong with this country happened in the 3 years from 1972 to 1975 and that now the Government is the blessed group born to set it right. It has not done too well in setting it right in the period of almost 2 years it has had so far to set it right. It is about time it began to scratch beneath the surface and see what the problems are. I find it difficult to think of anything positive that has yet been done by this Government in the 18 months or so it has been in office. If anything has got better it has got better despite the Government rather than because of it. I never believed that the Australian economy was as bad as it was painted, but honourable members opposite painted it that way to get into office. Now they are in office they do not know what to do. 
Sitting suspended from 5.54 to 8 p.m. 
I am afraid that I shall not be quite as eulogistic as the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  about the stock valuation adjustment. He explained essentially what it is. The company's profit is calculated as before on the basis of what is called historical cost and then an adjustment is made which is taken straight off the taxable income. It does not appear technically in the books of the company at all but appears only in the tax calculation at the end of the year. An index that is related to the course of prices throughout the whole year is applied to opening stock at hand 12 months before. That is a rather different pattern from the indexation that applies to wage earners where an index 12 months old is applied to current income. Whether there is much difference once the system starts rolling is arguable. 
The effect of this adjustment is, as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his speech in introducing this measure, to reduce the tax that will be paid by companies by something like $360m- almost one-eighth of the total that is collected in company tax each year at the moment. The Budget estimated company tax to yield somewhere in the region of $2,900m this year. Profits seem to have risen rather than fallen this year so the benefit will be at least $360m. The Treasurer allowed us to have a discussion with officials from the Taxation Office. In his speech the Treasurer said that he would have liked to apply the whole of the index, not 50 per cent of it for the 12 months, which would have given a tax saving not of $360m but of $720m. I am critical of two or three aspects of this scheme. Firstly, I refer to the choice of the consumer price index or part only of the consumer price index to apply to a situation of what are essentially wholesale stocks. I am interested to see as reported in the  Australian Accountant  of September 1976 an article on the Sandilands report which dealt with accounting in an inflationary era. It was critical of an accounting body because it had recommended that what in England is called the RPI- that is the retail price index, which coincides more or less with the CPI, the consumer price index- be used in SSAP7. That is the seventh draft of the provisional statement of standard accounting practice of the Accountants' Institute of England and Ireland. It is criticised on the ground that the RPI is a wide ranging index of prices of goods and services purchased by domestic consumers which in many cases will give a misleading indication of the effects of inflation on individual companies. I suggest that this certainly will be the situation with the adoption of the CPI index in Australia to company taxation. 
If there is logic in the arguments that have been advanced on the other side, particularly just a few moments ago by the honourable member for Berowra, the application of this crude index will give benefit to some people who do not deserve it and not sufficient to those who do. After all, stock is turned over at different rates among companies. A pie shop or a fruit shop turns its stock over every few days. Motor car manufacturers hope to turn stock over monthly. That is not quite the case at the moment. Some other manufacturing endeavour might make few pieces of equipment which are not to be sold for some considerable time. Again I criticise the use of the particular index. I criticise the crude way in which it covers all trading stock- there is a definition of trading stock in the legislation- in the same manner irrespective of how long the stock is held, how frequently acquired and so on. 
We were told that the benefit is to be $360m. There is a lot of difference as to how that $360m will be divided among the recipient companies. I ask honourable members who are interested in this matter to look up the last set of company tax statistics published by the Commissioner of Taxation, I think in November 1976. They are the latest figures available. They refer to income year 1973-74. Total holdings of what the legislation calls trading stock, which these amendments cover, by 42 698 companies at the beginning of the financial year 1973-74 aggregated $7,2 14m- over $7 billion of stock. By the end of the financial year the value of the stock had risen to $9,019m-$9 billion, if you like. But when one looks more closely at the figures, particularly in the arena of public companies, one sees that the 295 public companies that had profits of $2m and over at the end of June 1974 held $2,96 lm worth of trading stock. Another 268 companies which had profits between $lm and $2m had stocks aggregating $992m. So in essence, certainly over one-third, and if you went up another bracket, one-half of the total stocks would be held by about 1000 companies. 
Honourable members opposite talk about private enterprise as though it were some sort of little animal when, of course, it is a miscellany of the very big and the very small. There is not much doubt as to where the main advantage of this $360m is going to go. Nearly one-half of it will go to those 1000 or so very big companies. I am not too sure that in the long run they have not been able largely to adjust their prices to suit themselves anyway. After all, one only has to look at the structure of their other assets and the depreciation and so on that is allowed to see that one is talking about very big entities. They are not the sorts of companies that have been going bankrupt in Australia. They weathered the storm fairly successfully. The worst examples in Australia in recent times have been crashes of financial enterprises which got into the nefarious area of land dealing and speculation. In my view they deserved what happened to them. But they are not in this arena of concessions, that is, trading stock valuation as defined quite substantially in the Income Tax Act. The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  referred to the figures used by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research.  His  figures were a year later than mine. I have taken the same figures from the Mathews report on inflation and taxation. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
I cannot follow the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  down the fascinating paths he embarked upon, except to comment that I think it is a moot point in a community whether the Budget balances the economy or the economy balances the Budget. What is sometimes rather glibly called a deficit is simply the difference between current expenditures and current revenue. The difference is found by loan, by resort to the Reserve Bank, or by raising more taxation. The differences between private accounting and public accounting are so great that what is capital and what is income need a lot more defining. I want to quote briefly from something the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said recently when he was addressing the South Australian Division of the Securities Institute of Australia in Adelaide on Friday, 20 May, and I will refer to 2 extracts from his speech. He said: 
The high cost of labour has meant an increasing tendencyreflected in the capital investment figures already mentioned- to replace men by machines. 
He had commented earlier: 
In the cases of investment in plant and equipment, and investment in dwellings, there was very rapid growth. 
I want first to ask the question: What is supposed to happen to the men who have been replaced by machines? If I may say so, that is a very important social question. I should also like to quote from the most recent issue of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited publication  Business Indicators  for May 1977. It points to the fact that factory production now seems to be lifting upwards somewhat, and then states: 
After adjustment for seasonal influences, the index (all groups including Power) reached a record level of 171 in February, in the 1 973-74 boom. 
I might point out that that was during the period of the Labor Government. 
Subsequently, the index fell sharply to a trough level of 151 in May and June 1975. Since then, estimates of the index for March 1977 show that factory output has nearly recovered to the 1973-74 record level. 
I simply underline the point that factory production was at its highest level ever during the period of the Labor Government. That was a rather easy statement from the Treasurer. It is true that when you bring in capital equipment you replace manpower by machines. That has been the whole course of Western industrial development. But surely in a society which still claims a belief in full employment we have to answer the question: What do you do with the men who have been displaced? We had the Jackson report not very long ago, on which a White Paper has now been prepared by the Government, and apparently there is a conflict in the Australian community at the moment. Manufacturing has declined quite significantly as a provider of total employment, both absolutely and relatively, over recent years. The only hope for expanding manufacturing industry's total absorptive capacity apparently is to export manufactures, but nobody has come up with the likely areas in which we can increase our exports. Perhaps the answer is to get more sophisticated capital equipment, to expand the total capacity, which in turn will help to absorb those seeking employment. 
I gave the House an illustration the other day which pointed out that in the early days when I was a student of economics employment was divided into primary and secondary. We then had to find a new category called tertiary to connote that primary and secondary did not indicate all the areas of employment available in a sophisticated economy. Reading an American publication recently, I found that they are introducing a fourth term called quaternary, which apparently acknowledges that in the age of computers and the like primary, secondary and tertiary are no longer competent to answer the demands of society to employ its people. I was very interested to receive an invitation to attend a genetic engineering conference tomorrow, but I think it is time that a little more attention was given to doing something about those who have already been born, who have gone through our schools in the last15 or 16 years, and are now facing the grim reality that they are supposed to be better educated than people have ever been before. But it seems that no one wants to hire them. Surely there has to be better engineering in regard to what comes out of the education stream. I do not believe that education is only to equip people to work. It has to equip people to live sensibly and sanely in a societyin which it has become very difficult to live sensibly and sanely. Nevertheless, the majority of us are doomed for our forseeable futures to be employees of somebody, whether it be private enterprise or government, at the primary level at one end or the quaternary level at the other end. 
It is time this Government began to acknowledge that it has been in office long enough now not to put all the blame for what is wrong in the economy- this is not the only economy in the world that has problems- upon the 3 years of Labor Government. The quotations I have given from the Australian and New Zealand Bank report showed that we had reached the highest production ever of factory goods- the quantitative things. Maybe our problem in the future will be that we must put more emphasis on developing the qualitative as against the quantitative. I do not believe that this Government is in any sense facing up to those realities. I have said this in the Parliament previously. I cannot really think of anything substantive that has been done by this Government that has set the economy on any better road than it was on before. I believe that the economy will right itself. I believe that people will realise that they must show a bit more initiative. The great private enterprise has been anything but enterprising in throwing its shoulder behind the need to recognise what some of these social problems are. Those problems do not afflict only Australia. They afflict every Western economy in the world. If the Western economies do not find a solution, they will not for very long survive as democratic communities. We are getting to the point at which the tolerance of the community is being strained about the amount of unemployment visible, and the amount of under-employment invisible. It is time we faced up to it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-What the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  has just said points to the reality of the position. When we start to index, we are beginning to acknowledge that inflation is not under control. As I said in a speech I made not very long ago, if we begin to index everything I am not too sure that we index anything. Whenever a government begins to index selectively, it may be doing justice to some sections at the expense of injustice of other sections. I think that the honourable member probably would agree with that. I think he said that what was being done was a little imprecise. Sometimes when there is imprecision, the tendency exists to suggest that what is being done is specific. There are great difficulties in what is being done in this mechanism of indexation. What does the Government mean by indexation? Does the Government mean that if a person has a certain income at the beginning of the ear- he may be a farmer, a sole employee or, as think is meant principally in this case, an employee- and because of inflation the income becomes higher and adjustments are made to it? Is not what we are arguing about in this Bill that a person's income, taking tax into account at point A should be the same at point B-usually 12 months later- after allowing for cost of living increases? In other words, taking tax into account, the person's income should be exactly at the same level at point B as it was at point A. That is not what happens in relation to what is called tax indexation. 
Let us get down to fundamentals. There is no exemption of income earned. The total income is still taxed. All that is done to allow the brackets of taxation to slide up. I do not think that anybody has demonstrated that after taking into account the additional tax and the additional income the taxpayer is as well off as he was 12 months before. This is why I say that sometimes we use a term as though we understood what it meant. I referred the other day to the common fund queston relating to international trade, which is not altogether relevant to this debate. I made the point which I am trying to advance now, namely, that we latch on to a phrase and we think that because we adopt the phrase we have found the solution. This is not the situation. 
What is tax indexation about? It is supposed to produce a situation in which, after a person's income has risen above that of the previous year, taking tax into account he is in the same position as if prices had not risen. Nobody can seriously say that is what this Bill does. Really, the Government has violated the principle on which it stood. It has discounted the amount of the indexation. It has taken into account factors which may be relevant to the overall economic situation but are not relevant to the particular circumstances of the individual. After all, income tax is about the individual incomes of people at the end of a certain point of time. I do not disagree with my friend, the honourable member for Dawson, about certain propositions but he has not analysed the position far enough. If the Government indexes some things but does not index others it is giving the people an advantage. I do not know whether it is giving the maximum advantage or the right advantage but it is giving some people an advantage as against the rest of the community. But if we begin to index everything and do not halt inflation have we really made everybody or anybody in the long run better off? It is simply acknowledging that inflation is there. I believe that in the finish what is called indexation simply means that the tax schedules must be adjusted every year. 
Exactly, with other considerations. It is the other considerations to which I want to draw some attention. There is a sort of tendency to believe- I am afraid it still persiststhat what is collected in taxes does down the drain or down the sink. But what is collected in taxes is part of the social performance. The public cannot demand greater social performance, as I think it does, without an increase in taxation. We cannot start to take into account in advance what is called indexation without acknowledging on the other side that there may be greater demands on government. I believe that despite this sort of zeal for what is called private enterprise versus public enterprise- if that is the termincreasingly the sort of things that are demanded in a democratic society call for relatively more expenditure at the public level and relatively less expenditure in the other arena. Once we start indexing tax we can go to the extreme of indexing the tax schedule if we like, and then decide that overall we need, say, a 10 per cent increase in taxation. What will we do then? Will we redistribute the schedule we have readjusted in the name of indexation and then say that we have to go to indirect taxation instead of direct taxation? 
One of the things which I admire about the National Country Party members, who are interjecting, is that when one of them speaks the others come into the House and support him. However, occasionally they do not. They did not yesterday. There was one zealous member speaking, but he was the only one from his Party in the House and I was the only one on this side of the House listening to him. Now, suppose that we want additional money to pay for a superphosphate bounty. 
-This afternoon I twitted one of the honourable member's colleagues about the floor price for wool. It was much harder in our day to sustain that price. I am not too sure that I supported the original price, but I thought that once we had started the scheme it was terribly silly to withdraw it and I persuaded the majority of my colleagues not to withdraw it. We got in the clear because the economic circumstances changed. However, that did not stop honourable members opposite in those days criticising the amount of the deficit, which was $400m greater because we had to support the floor price for wool. They still wanted to criticise the total deficit. Occasionally we have to subject things to better analysis. 
What we are doing with the indexation of taxation is adjusting tax schedules annually. In my view they ought to be adjusted annually. We should not allow the position to be camouflaged by the mumbo jumbo that it is indexation and it is doing justice. It is not. Look at the schedule that is provided. Some people, as does every one of us here, get an advantage of $720 a year- $14 a week- through indexation, and some people get an advantage of $70. If honourable members think that that is more equitable taxation, I do not. I believe that we have to have a closer look at it and not allow the real position to be camouflaged by formulas that are imprecise. As has been said, we have to begin to be specific. 
-The Opposition supports the two measures which are now being debated, one to increase our subscription to the International Development Association and the other to participate in a new fund to be known as the International Fund for Agricultural Development. I want to draw the attention of the House to the various serious human problems which we will face in this area in the years ahead. The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  referred to the world's population as being one-third rich and twothirds poor. Of course, there are degrees of richness among the rich, and unfortunately there are degrees of poverty among the poor. My colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  in launching the debate on behalf of the Opposition yesterday, said that in the past a lot of mistakes had been made in the way aid had been given and that the mechanics of giving aid were not always very satisfactory. I believe that that is still a very real difficulty. Essentially, the poor countries will have to increase substantially their output of foodstuffs. It is not feasible, at least on a long term basis, to rely on food shortages in one set of countries being met by chance from a surplus in others. Of course, the economics of developed countries can be thrown into much confusion by reason of famine in some parts of the world and alleged surpluses of grain stuffs in other parts. 
I have taken the opportunity to read one or two recent publications concerned with this area. I draw attention to an article in a magazine that most of us get or certainly can get. I refer to  Finance and Development,  the quarterly publication of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. In the June 1 977 issue, there is an article by Shahid Javed Burki and T. J. Goering on food problems of the low income countries in which they said: 
If we employ the UN 'Medium 'projections for population and assume a modest increase in per capita income and consumption, with no correction of existing nutritional inadequacies, demand for food-grains in the low-income countries is estimated to increase from 174 million tons in 1 974 to 245 million tons in 1985. 
Then the authors go on to reflect: 
It is hardly credible, for both logistical and balance of payment reasons that the low-income countries will be able to import sufficient food to make up a deficit of 45 to 70 million tons by 1985. 
That is the difference between estimated needs and anticipated production. They go on to say that in 1974, a year of serious shortfalls in their domestic production, these countries imported 14 million tons of grain, which is something like the total export potential of Australia. They added: 
Even this level of imports placed a serious burden on their balance of payments. If the low-income countries import 15 million tons in 1985, a shortfall of 30 to 55 million tons will remain. 
The authors then go on to suggest that perhaps other countries which have better technology and industrial development should systematically assist these areas to increase their own production. 
I was interested to note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in his second reading speech on the International Fund for Agricultural Development Bill 1 977 said: 
Furthermore, it is likely that, as IFAD gets under way, there will be commercial opportunities for Australian agricultural machinery, technology and expertise in connection with IFAD projects. 
I think it is rather sad in a way that so little time is devoted in this House to serious consideration of these sorts of problems. We all come in here and get het up when there is a debate on Vietnam or on what we should or should not do with uranium. I have no doubt that tonight there will be some golden pearls dropped in connection with what we should be doing about the Middle East. However, when it comes to the practical problem of trying to remove some of the aspects that cause international friction, what do we find? I suppose there is no greater cause of friction than the gap between the 'haves' and 'havenots'. The fortunate factor for the 'haves' is that the 'have-nots' largely lack the ferocity to be very effective in having their needs met except by recourse to aid or trade. With a certain amount of cynicism, I remember that, years ago, when a prominent American statesman was asked for his views on trade, not aid, he said that he was all in favour of the latter. He did not want to be bothered with aid and presumably did not want to be bothered with trade either. Unfortunately, that tendency still exists to a great degree. 
Another of the publications that honourable members may obtain free is a very interesting publication of the Rural Bank of New South Wales called  Trends.  In the April 1977 issue, there is an interesting article by  Mr E.  F. Gillin entitled 'Agriculture in the Year 2000'. The article is adapted from the presidential address of the Rural Bank's chief economists,  Mr Gillin,  to the Australian Agricultural Economic Society, 
New South Wales branch, on 3 1 March 1 977. At the end of his article,  Mr Gillin  sums up by saying: 
Great changes will occur in world agriculture by the year 2000 . . . 
I suggest that there will need to be great changes long before that if a great deal of misery and suffering is to be avoided -  . . . bringing about enormous increases in food supplies and altering the structure of agricultural production. 
We talk a lot in this House about structural change both in industry and in agriculture. I suppose one thing that we are slowly learning is that structural change is not easy to bring about. There is a resistance on the part of those who are already structured to being restructured and sometimes the only way that the structure is altered is by the ultimate demise of the existing structure because the warnings were not seen early enough. We have had the Jackson report suggesting that the future of Australian manufacturing, if it is to expand, cannot be seen in terms of internal demand but has to be seen in terms of export. I would defy anybody here to be optimistic about the areas of manufacturing industry which are likely to be large export earners in the foreseeable future. It may be that if we pay some attention to situations in other countries, the answer to the food shortages of the low income countries is not for Australia, the United States of America and Canada to supply them with grain but for us to supply them with the agricultural machinery, the irrigation techniques and so on to help them increase their own production. 
I had the honour recently to represent this Parliament at a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in London at which there was a representative from Kenya who told me that, if he had available just a handful of tractors, they could have a multiplier effect of something like ten times their value. I presume that a tractor worth $5,000 or $6,000 could have resulted in increased annual agricultural production of about $60,000. It seems to me that that is the kind of get together that has to occur more in the future. I have found from visiting some of the Pacific Islands that Australia is more appreciated there for things which most people in Australia did not know had happened. I have referred before to the curing on one of the islands of a disease in bananas called curly top or curly leaf simply by flying an expert from the Queensland Department of Primary Industries to this place in the New Hebrides. He was able to set the problem right in a relatively short space of time. Bananas were the principal export earning crop in that area. Here was an example of a need and someone knowing how that need could be met. I think that that is still the great deficiency in a lot of the aid provisions. We have elaborate machinery, and too often we are inclined to think that the problems of the poor will be solved by giving them what the rich do not want. This is the sort of thing that Dickens pilloried years agosending handkerchiefs to the Hottentots. I have heard of overcoats being sent to the people of Madras. The intention is good but it is very far from the mark in solving the problem. 

 Mr Gillan lists quite a number of areas in which, if a systematic application were made, perhaps a fortunate end result could be achieved by some Australian industry selling machinery. It need not be highly technical machinery. There is much talk of the needs of what are called middle technologies that would be best adapted to smaller peasant farming and so on. But it seems to me that that sort of approach is not being undertaken. We are still inclined to gratify ourselves when asked whether we fed the hungry, clothed the naked or gave shelter to those who did not have it by saying that we have already given 0.5 per cent of the gross domestic product in foreign aid. Maybe that salves our consciences but it does not do much to remove this disparity that exists between the rich and the poor. 
When I was Minister for Overseas Trade, Australia had a trade exhibition in Iran. We were quite successful there in selling irrigation machinery which was quite readily adaptable to the needs of Iran. I am sure that the same sort of need exists in other parts of the world. It was Israel which instituted the system known as trickle irrigation. Apparently, before the introduction of that system there had been a rather wasteful use of water in some of these areas. The water was not applied to the crops effectively. We have technicians or technologists in Australia who are quite capable of educating in that area. I do not know whether honourable members received as I did today the publication of the United Nations Development Program for the years 1976 and 1977. It is stated on the cover of the publication: 
For the United Nations Development Program, the years 1976-1977 mark an important biennium 
The report goes on to list what the Development Program has done and to suggest what might be done in the future. It is pointed out that at one level it has become evident that real progress by the developing countries depends not simply on maximum internal effort and optimum external assistance but on basic changes in the structure and dynamics of the international economy. One of the areas in which there has to be basic change in the structure and dynamics of the international economy, of course, is this very tender area of trade and tariff negotiations. Discussions are taking place all the time on multilateral trade developments but very little interest is taken in this House in Australia's participation in those events. I am sure that at times it would be far more sensible if we devoted a little more time to the rather dreary mechanics of this kind of thing rather than all of us presenting our blueprints for setting the rest of the world right. The report goes on to state: 
The second category will involve activities designed Tor the greatest possible impact at the grass-roots- improving nutrition, increasing employment and earnings, safeguarding health, expanding education, upgrading housing and strengthening social services. 
Some play was made in the House today about the unsatisfactory water supply of Adelaide. Adelaide is a big enough city. But something like two-thirds of the world's population has unsatisfactory water services. I suppose that the problems of these people are far more serious than the problems of the people of the city of Adelaide. Some delegates from Australia recently attended a conference in America devoted to the objective of trying to give pure water in the next 10 years or so to every human being in the world. It involves hundreds of millions- perhaps even billions- of people. Apparently, it is not very difficult to encompass them within a satisfactory water supply scheme provided the right sort of assistance is given at the right time. We sometimes contemplate what one country will do to another in the name of war, in shifting men and materials in the name of destruction. But I think that we have an entirely different attitude when it comes to social reconstruction. In the long run, if we removed these barriers- physical, social and economic- that exist, perhaps we would have far less need to have defence expenditure as the biggest item in our Budget after social welfare expenditure. I am not sure whether we ever argue what it is we are supposed to defend ourselves against. We seem to go into great debates about what we will defend ourselves with. I do not think that we get a great deal of agreement about that, either. But it seems that too little attention is given to these very real human problems. At least the opportunity is presented this afternoon and it was presented yesterday for these matters to be considered. We are only tinkering so far with what is a vast problem. I believe the world has the resources available to solve it. The problem is one of communication, to take from those who have not the things they do not want but the assistance that is undoubtedly required by the recipients at the other end. It is a big problem. Unfortunately, I think that inflation has moved faster than anything else. As my friend the honourable member for Berowra says, in real terms probably less aid is given now than before. But we still haggle about the percentage of GNP. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to repeat two points that were mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in his attack on the Budget this evening. He said: 
It is irrelevant to the economic circumstances or the current economic needs of Australia. 
In a colourful expression, he said: 
What is done in this Budget is to apply the classical cure for an overheated, booming economy to an economy which is foundering, an economy which is not overheated, but frozen stiff. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who has just spoken, tried to indicate somehow that there was virtue in the level of this year's deficit being less than the deficit of last year. Budget Statement No. 1 entitled 'Summary of the 1977-78 Budget' shows that the actual deficit for 1976-77- here I am talking about the internal deficit and not what is called the domestic deficit- - was $2, 740m. That document also shows that this year the deficit is some $500m less at $2,2 17m. 
Let me take some figures from the White Paper on National Income to indicate the total outcome of the economy last year. Presumably the Budget is supposed to have some beneficial effect upon the result. As a sort of parameter, the White Paper shows the gross domestic product at about $81 billion. The gross domestic product can be expressed in percentage terms. But we must remember in that case that any additions cannot exceed one hundred. It is of interest to note that one per cent of the GDP in round terms is $800m. This is about the projected expenditure on the unemployment benefit this year. In a sense the unemployment benefit is a transfer, mostly via the tax process, from those who are working and those who have incomes to those who are unable to get employment. Last financial year, of the $8 1 billion which made up the total GDP $46 billion or 56 per cent accrued to persons as wages, salaries and supplements. In the previous financial year, 58 per cent of the total GDP had gone to wages, salaries and supplements. In that same period, $25,8 18m, or 32 per cent, went to enterprises as gross operating surplus as against at least 30 per cent in the previous year. So, one effect of last year's Budget was to reduce the share of the total gross domestic product going to wages, salaries and supplements by two per cent and to increase by the same percentage point the amount going to enterprises as gross operating surplus. This was one effect of last year's Budget. If it is thought that this change is beneficial, I hope that someone on the other side will get up and argue the case. 
I agree with what was said by the Leader of the Opposition this evening when he quoted  Mr Justice  Moore's judgment in the latest national wage case. For anybody to seriously assert that unemployment will be gravely affected because the total wage bill of this country is increased by 2 per cent surely is economic nonsense. Yet that was what the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  was prepared to enunciate. Does anybody on the Government side of the House believe that it would have been a good thing to reduce wages? Real wages, in fact, have been reduced but nobody has been game enough to suggest that nominal wages ought to be reduced. It seems to me that that is almost the logic of the Treasurer at the moment. 
I put a simple economic proposition. As the Leader of the Opposition said, this Budget is irrelevant to the current economic circumstances. I am not too sure myself- I have said this over and over again- whether Budgets are as relevant to the total economic circumstances as we sometimes believe. I think that too much is asked of Budgets and too little resort is given to things which ought to be done outside the Budget. But at least this seems a fundamental enough proposition. I support it by quoting again from the Budget Paper on National Income and Expenditure which states that unemployment in Australia is rising because total employment is not rising. I think the sooner we come around to that realisation the sooner we will get down to the elements of the trouble. Again, that Budget paper stated: 
Total employment showed virtually no change in 1976-77 . . . 
This was despite the fact that something like 160,000 more people would have liked to work. In fact, total employment showed no change in 1976-77 following a fall of about one-quarter of one per cent in the previous year. So we have had almost no increase in total employment in Australia for nearly 2 years. How can one expect an economy to boom or to respond in that sort of situation? We all talked about full employment years ago. I understood that full employment always meant a job available for everyone able and willing to work. I qualify that by saying that full employment has never meant and cannot mean always the same job in the same place. In this country- this is shown in the famous table No. 2 found in the Budget papers- at the same time as we have the high level of unemployment we have areas where there are shortages of skills. It seems to me that we have to match the people who are out of work with the jobs which still need to be filled. This is not an easy task. 
I sometimes think my own side is a little bit glib when it suggests we can easily find 50,000 new jobs. We can do that but it might not be the best means of usefully utilising the total resources of the community. At the moment we are transferring something like one per cent from those who are fortunate enough to have work and incomes to those who have not. That is a pretty costly process. Surely we are not getting as much value for the $800m as perhaps we ought to get. I do not support the thesis that the majority of people who are drawing unemployment benefits do not deserve it. I believe that they are circumstantially afflicted by the malaise of the economy. At least we are humane enough to acknowledge that they should not starve. Surely in the long run- my colleague at the table, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  knows this- there can be less reliance on manufacturing as a percentage source of total employment. 
The Government has cut down on government activity. The Budget papers show, as my colleague the Leader of the Opposition indicated tonight, that real capital expenditure on the part of the Government is declining. Surely nobody thinks that we have enough hospitals, schools and homes for the aged and that it was a good thing to cut down on provision in that area. Maybe the theory of the Government was that it could cut down there and the private sector would take that up. That is not what has happened. Again, as the Leader of the Opposition indicated, the Government is living on false economic theories at the moment. I think that some honourable members opposite might take a little more realistic approach to things both in New South Wales and Victoria now that they have seen the redistribution of electoral boundaries. That might put their minds on more worldly things rather than abstract theories. It has been said to me that I was the first one to say that one man's increase in wages would mean another person's unemployment. There is a certain sub-stratum of truth in that but it is not a philosophy to hide behind forever. Surely the reality is that people are being educated in our schools today in the belief- we are giving them higher, more costly and I hope more qualitative education than ever before- that when they finish there will be a job for them. That is no longer true. What can be more devastating to the foundations of a community when a large part of its people have never worked and potentially will never work? This is the situation unless we make drastic structural changes. This Budget does not grapple with that situation at all. 
I have said before that I would prefer to have inflation rise by a point or two and unemployment drop by a point or two if that is what has to happen. Always in Western democratic economies the difficulty is to get full employment or near full employment without pressure of inflation at the same time. We have both of these. Inflation is higher than we would like and unemployment is much greater than we desire. This Budget cannot reach down to the elements of the situation. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who spoke earlier referred to reducing the proportion of the gross domestic product spent at Government level. There has been a lot of reference to the deceit of this Budget. I am not sure whether it is deceit or clever camouflage. I am a little kinder, sometimes, than other people. 
On today's figures- I understand Budgets are written in terms of current prices- the total expenditure projected in this Budget is $26, 656m which is near enough to one-third of the total gross domestic product. It will not be that figure by the end of the year because inflation will be at least 10 per cent. So the 33 per cent potential will turn out to be something like 30 per cent potential. When one looks at the anatomy of the Budget one finds that over two-thirds of total Federal expenditure is accounted for by education, which takes 8.9 per cent; health, which takes 10.6 per cent; social security and welfare, which take 27.2 per cent, and payments to the 
States which take 22 per cent. That represents 68.6 per cent of the total Budget expenditure this year. I believe there are groups in the community who think that those sums are inadequate for the needs that have to be encompassed, but at least this does highlight the rigidity that is built into budgets by the inheritance of the past- the things we have contracted to do which limit our ability to move very fast in the future, at least in respect of budgets. 
It is for that reason that I believe it is time we acknowledged that we cannot expect much from a great event on the second or third Tuesday in August every year and assume that once it is out of our hair the economy is set fair for the rest of the year. That is nonsense. To set the economy fair in Australia is going to take more than a year, more than two years. It is probably going to take a minimum of five years. Underneath it all, we still subscribe to the need for full employment, but we have to acknowledge that people are being put through our education system at the moment and turned out with capacities that nobody wants. That is sad, perhaps, and I do not believe that the only purpose of education is to equip people to do a job, but most of us do need to earn an income by being employed by somebody else. Not enough people are coming out with the sorts of skills needed in today's changing society. Too many are coming out with skills that might have been useful in the post-war reconstruction era but are not required with the technology of today. 
This Budget reaches nowhere in that area, and the more quickly this House gets down to some of the fundamentals the better. We have had a plethora of reports. The Borrie report dealt with our likely future population. Surely it will have some impact on employment for the future and on demands for education in the future. The Coombs report dealt with changing the machinery of government. To a great extent, it contained a lot of high nonsense from some of its contributors who claimed to be expert in things about which they know nothing. I do not know how those who simply ask a question or two here and there know who were good or bad Treasurers in this country in the past, but there are some very learned characters who believe that they do know. Then there was the Jackson report which, if I can epitomise what it said, stated that unless manufacturing industry finds export markets in the future manufacturing will be a declining part of the total economy. I find it hard to know the areas of manufacturing in Australia which are likely to be increased export earners in the future. Perhaps the problem will be to live with a smaller proportion of total activity in manufacturing. But what will we do then with the people who would have been absorbed in manufacturing employment? Where are they to go? At the moment, I do not think that anybody in Australia has the answer to that question, but we can haggle about it. 
I will take another opportunity to talk about the taxation system. Tonight I have tried to indicate quite starkly that, in my view, last year there was an adverse shift in the shares of the Australian economy going to the various contributing parts. I might conclude by asking honourable members to look at the first table on page five of the national income paper. It shows that, as far as the total performance of the economy is concerned, the best year of the last five years was 1973-74, the year of the first Labor Budget. I am pleased to have it regarded as a Labor Budget rather than have a name attached to it. It secured a better distribution of the total resources and won this party an election in May 1 974. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-I repeat the terms of the matter submitted for discussion: 
The Arbitration Commission's decisive rejection of the Fraser Government's arguments for a wage freeze. 
After what the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  has said, there does not seem to be much doubt that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has rejected the Fraser Government's arguments. I think we have heard from the other side of the House a kind of defence of the thought that somehow the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is wrong and the Government is right. There seem to be three grounds on which the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission came to its decision. I shall headline these briefly. The statement by the  President  of the Commission on the national wage case stated: 
First, using the CPI as the measure of changes in the purchasing power of money, on the most recent statistics published by the Statistician the following figures show that there has been some decline in real wages since May and June of last year. 
I do not want to repeat the figures, but that statement illustrates that there is a difference of opinion between the Commission, which is supposed to be independent in making its decisions, and the Government as to what the decision ought to have been based on. The statement continued: 
Second, on all the evidence and argument before the Commission, it remains highly contentious whether employment recovery would have been greater or less merely if the Commission had awarded smaller wage increases during 1976-1977. 
If I may say so, that is a pretty powerful affirmation of a contrary view. The statement continued: 
Third, we believe there is a tendency to overstate the power of the Commission to control actual wage movements. 
I repeat that that is germane to the situation. The Government is expecting the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to be a scapegoat for the failures of policy in other areas. The question of whether failures can wholly be attributed to government is something about which I talked last night. I repeat part of what the Treasurer said in his Budget Speech: 
The grave imbalance between real wages and productivity resulting from the 1974 wage explosion still remains Australia 's major economic problem. 
That problem can only be solved by winding down real wages relative to productivity; while it persists, it makes all talk of quickly reducing unemployment merely hollow rhetoric. 
The philosophy of the Government is further spelt out in Statement No. 2 in the Budget Papers. I quote only these words: 
So long as the price of labour, and particularly certain categories of labour, remains excessive relative to its product, there will continue to be both a tendency for contraction in the overall scale of production and, for any particular level of activity, a heightened tendency to substitute capital for labour. The latter process is now seemingly occurring at an advanced rate. 
I ask categorically: Does the Government seriously believe that unemployment in Australia is at its present level because at the moment horsepower is preferred to manpower? The question can be put as bluntly as that. I believe that any government in a Western country in 1977 which holds that principle as a basis of belief is not facing up to what the realities of employment, as we know them in Western communities, are. Are people out of work in Australia today because machines are preferred to men? Surely we have reached a situation in Australia at the moment where capacity is not fully utilised. We have more machines and more horsepower now than are being utilised. At the same time the level of unemployment is larger than this  country  has ever known. 
I think that the Arbitration Commission has done a service. It has suggested that it is not our job to do what the Government through its Treasurer and other members claim. I think that the Commission used a very good phrase when it said that the best thing we can get is something it called consensus between employer and employee groups in respect of what is being done in the wage process. I also want to quote- I do not think it has been quoted previously- what the representative of the Commonwealth said when he addressed the court in answer to a question from the Bench in connection with an argument that was put forward by  Mr Hartnett  for the Australian Council for Salaried and Professional Associations on the causes of unemployment. No doubt it can be said that the Commonwealth's counsel was the Government's paid official and that what he said was not the Government's view. However, the Commonwealth counsel said: 
In essence,  Mr Hartnett  seems to have been arguing that most of the current unemployment stems from structural imbalances in the labour market. The fact is that a number of factors have contributed to the present unemployment situation. Certainly there are structural imbalances. The main feature is, in our submission, the slackness in economic activity which in turn is linked in limited measure to excessive real wage costs, and we have stressed this in this and previous national wage cases. 
I underline the phrases 'slackness in economic activity', 'structural imbalances' and 'linked in limited measure to excessive real wage costs'. At the moment the only thing that the Government seems to want to suggest is wrong is that the wage costs, which are only, as it is said, a limited part of the problem, are in fact the dominant factor. That again has been rejected by the court, which rightly says: 'Does anyone believe that if we had not given 2 per cent it would have made any substantial difference to the vast number of unemployed?' Does anyone want to go back to the Luddite days when it was considered better to use physical manpower than machine horsepower? To say so would be to fly in the face of historic economic development. Surely what has not been acknowledged here is that the changes are structural and that they are not being grappled with as far as this community is concerned. 
The Minister for Special Trade Negotiations said that wages are a cost to employers. Of course wages are a cost to employers, but they are not the only cost to employers. They vary between groups of employers in respect of their relative significance. But surely what has to be underlined is that wages are also the principal source of consumer demand in the community. In essence the  President  of the Commission seemed to me to be saying that wages had had the effect at higher levels of lowering real take home pay. What is this Government doing by its tax concessions to endeavour to remedy that situation? What is wrong with the court trying to remedy the situation within the terms of its role? As my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out, is there not a contradiction in what the Government is saying? I do not accept that the problem is one of capital being utilised instead of manpower. But if that is a thesis, why did the Government introduce the investment allowance to encourage the use of more machines? It seems to me that the Government's economic policy as far as restoring full employment is concerned is bankrupt and threadbare. The recent decision of the court only underlines and unfortunately highlights this point. 
-My friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and I are among the few members on this side who served with Leslie Haylen for the majority of his period here. What has not been mentioned is that his ancestry was very close to this area.  His  family came from the Bugendore-Queanbeyan district. At some odd stages he had a nostalgic idea of buying back the family property. I think that in the long run prices and circumstances beat him as he did not do that. Nevertheless, he had an interest in this area always. I suppose that one of the ironies of  Hansard  is that it does not record the nuances of debate. I sometimes wish it would insert in the report 'Laughter', or something else, in brackets. But it does not. Often when one reads  Hansard  coldly later it does not sound quite the same as it did on the occasion. 
I am pleased that my friend from Queensland, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  has spoken. I think at one time he and Leslie Haylen claimed a distant ancestry. How close it was I do not know. Certainly it shows that blood sometimes divides in rather odd sorts of ways. Les Haylen was a very close friend of mine. I think some of his most entertaining moments were not in the House; they were as a raconteur at some intimate gatherings. I do not often take part in valedictories but I am pleased to do so on this occasion. I think it is rather sad that only a handful of people still remember individually a man who left here in  1963.  Those of us who are lucky to be among that number treasure his memory. I am sure we extend to his wife and two sons our sincere sympathy in their bereavement. 
It would be much more pleasant if we knew what was happening. My understanding was that the debate would be interrupted at 10.30 p.m. 
-I support the amendment moved quite a few weeks ago by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I had hoped that I would never have had to speak in this debate. I think it is absurd that in this Parliament when there are 91 members on the Government side and 36 members on this side, the Government should try to make a great point out of the fact of not being able to match the number of speakers. The numbers favour the Government by  2lh  to one. 
The Government did try it. The Government is trying it here right now. This debate has been on and off. The Government has dallied until it got the decision from the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The Government has hoped to score political capital at every round. Uranium is one of the great emotional issues confronting the country at the moment. In fact, my colleague the Opposition Whip gave me a transcript of a telephone interview with Ralph Nader that was broadcast on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's program  AM on  21 July 1977. One of the things that astonished me about that interview was that consideration was given to what may happen in a couple of hundred thousand years. The prolonging of this debate and what has been said in it ignores what may happen in this country in the next 20 days, the next 20 months, and the next 20 years. It is humbug, if I may say so. I hope that it is still permissible to use that word in this House. 
I must say that I was sickened by what took place in this Parliament yesterday. A statement never made in this Parliament was voted upon seriously by honourable members on the Government side, and, if I may say so, my friend the Government Whip, in particular - 
-You brought that tawdry document into this place. Surely to goodness, nothing but what is said in this Parliament should go into its records. It is my understanding that  Hansard  is a record of what is said here. What happened yesterday lowered the standards of the Parliament. Even a Cabinet meeting was broken up. 
-It has a lot to do with uranium. I would be quite happy if an honourable member on the Government side stood up now and moved that the question be put. Candidly I would welcome it. I do not think there is anything left to say that will divide either side one way or the other. This is a serious issue. What the Leader of the Opposition put in his amendment was that the House should reject the Government's precipitate decision without there having been sufficient public debate in Australia. Surely this is what we ought to be arguing about. With all respect to people like Nader, I do not think the issue is what might happen in 200,000 years. Unfortunately, mankind has not got, and never has had that sort of perspective. I doubt if at any stage mankind has had an issue quite as divisive and, in a sense, quite as decisive in the ultimate as the one that now faces us. 
I am not one who believes that uranium should be kept in the ground. In a sense what we are arguing about is not what is in the ground but what we shall do with what has already been taken out of the ground. I would have hoped that Australia was a sensible and rational economic community and that we might have acknowledged that with nuclear energy there was arospect and a hope of redressing the balanceetween the haves and the have nots. On the other hand, I would not suggest that those who already have nuclear power or the disposition to use it are the ones to be most trusted with it. In my view we are being very pious in suggesting that we can be the arbitrators about the future use of uranium. 
I have lived long enough to see technological changes in my lifetime from boyhood to now. I have seen things that have astonished us. I have no doubt that changes will occur in the next 25 years. It may well be that what is now called uranium wil be synthesised. I do not know, nor does anybody else. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  arranged that splendid presentation of something like 30 documents recently, I think he was in a sense saying that he hoped the matter would be debated. With aU respect, I suggest that we want a different sort of debate from what is taking place in this House. I hope that what is being done here will be terminated as early as possible. I hope that we are not going to get any more of this kind of nonsense in the months ahead; that we have to match every one of the Governments speakers when it has two and a half times as many to do the job anyway. Why not have three speakers in a row from the Government side before one of the Opposition members speaks rather than try to make cheap political capital out of the issue, as was done the other evening when the Government side had speakers and presumably we did not, and gave the impression that it was keeping the debate going. Surely that makes a mockery of a parliamentary system. 
One of the things that disturbs me in what is increasingly becoming a secular society is that more and more people are claiming moral justification for certain actions. I suppose that immoral justification would be the opposite. Candidly, I do not know how one judges the relativity of these sorts of things but there is no doubt that mankind has the opportunity of destroying substantial parts of society. Hopefully nuclear power will be used for peaceful purposes but, deplorably, there is the possibility that it may be used for non-peaceful purposes. I am not too sure that that has not always been the case in the last 60 or 70 years, given the relative developments of various parts of the world. Germany sought to control the world by nonpeaceful means in 1870 and almost did so. It tried again, almost successfully, in the period from 1914 to 1918. It tried again in the period 1939-1945. Certain places like South Africa still use military power to sit on sensible politicachange. 
I suppose that one of the great risks of nuclear power is that some small power, given the opportunity, can start something that will not stop where it starts. This is one of the sad facts of history. I had the pleasure the other evening of going to a lecture in Melbourne given by Professor Dahrendorf. He is a German of origin. He suffered under Nazi persecution in the 1930s and now, in a sense, is grandly a citizen of the world. He said that he deplored the fact that his country of birth, or that part of it to which he still subscribes- West Germany- had recently arranged to sell to Brazil the potentiality to develop nuclear power presumably for destructive as well as peaceful purposes. He suggested- I am not certain that I necessarily subscribe to his suggestionthat nothing was lost by Australia becoming a seller of uranium at the moment, provided that it put terms on those to whom the uranium was sold. 
Exactly. That is the point to which I come. What if they do not honour them? Has that not always been the great challenge in the world? Has it not always been that those who should have done what they said they would do when they were under no pressure changed their minds when the circumstances changed? One has only to consider what can happen at the end of a football match or at the end of a session in a pub, or the way in which this House occasionally erupts, to realise that rational decisions can go out the window. It is rather sad to think of what will come into the vacuum. Surely that is what is involved in the use of this metal or element. I do not know the answers and I am not too sure that anybody else here does. I get a little tired of those who I claim have no more expertise in this matter than I have pontificating to me about what the scientific or physical realities are. 
We find intruding into the debate now even the suggestion that the mere mining of uranium is dangerous. The mere mining of coal, copper, lead or zinc can be dangerous, but nobody seemed to have the same reservations when those metals first began to be mined. We all would be safer at the weekends if no motor cars were driven on the roads; but is that a rational approach to the problems of society? 
Surely, occasionally we have to reason together. I submit that there are not the differences between the two sides in this House that are indicated in the procedures that we follow. I do not think that there are the divisions within the community in relation to this matter which it is said there are; but the community is asking questions, questions which increasingly it will ask in relation to many other matters. 
It is the people of the world and their health and welfare that are at stake. I suppose that most of us read many years ago the famous story called  Thais.  It was about a man who could have done a job in a certain place but thought that his great task was to go and save a courtesan in another part of the world from the fate worse than death; but he inherited the fate himself. There is a great deal to be learnt from that: Physician, first heal thyself and, society, first solve the problems on your doorstep before you try to solve everybody else's problems. Australia in many respects is in a unique position to be an exemplar to the rest of the world on many of these problems; but, from what I have seen in this Parliament yesterday in particular and to some extent in the debate on this question, we do not show ourselves as being very fit to be an example to anybody. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Porter)  adjourned. 
I agree with the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  that question time has become one of the most inefficient instruments of this Parliament, and that has been so for a considerable number of years. Like the honourable member, I recently heard far better performances in the House of Commons in the sensible use of question time than I do here. However, there is one point on which I will emphatically disagree with my friend: I do not believe the Senate should have any say in the financial affairs of this Parliament. This House long ago unfortunately did not face up to what should be its supreme responsibility. It is in this House, and in this House alone, that Supply can be initiated and it should be in this House, and in this House alone, that it is decided. What happened here on 11 November 1975 was a tremendous reversal of sensible constitutional practice in the 20th century and I will yield to no one in my views on that. 
I too am pleased that  Mr Speaker  is present for I hope that never again in this Parliament will there be a repetition of what took place here the week before Parliament last rose. One of the things we are deciding here today is the appropriation for  Hansard.  I believe that  Hansard  should be a report only of the proceedings of this House in this House. For political reasons recently, honourable members voted to incorporate material in  Hansard  and I am glad that  Mr Speaker  took the sensible and practical view that the material could not be incorporated. In my view it was a travesty that honourable members, particularly on the Government side, seriously thought that it should be. We took the best part of a day on that decision and I understand that even in the adjournment debate later in the day it was sought to go through the travesty of reading the document into the record when  Mr Speaker  had earlier decided that it was not suitable for incorporation. If we in this Parliament want to get to the practice of the American Congress where speeches which are not delivered at all are incorporated in  Hansard,  let us be honest enough to say so. I candidly hope that we do not do that. I believe that  Hansard  should be the record of what happens in the chamber. I do not know whether anybody ultimately reads the stuff and I think that sometimes there is a lot of vanity in relation to what goes into  Hansard.  I think we ought to resist the increasing habit of incorporating into a speech material which is longer than the speech itself. We sensibly put limits on the length of speeches a long time ago, yet honourable members can make their  Hansard  contribution twice as long- I am not sure that it is twice as impressive- by the insertion of all sorts of documents, when many of them have been included in  Hansard  previously and most of the information can be found in the government  Year Book. 
I think the low number of members in the chamber at the moment is indicative of the situation. Once Question Time finishes, unless some lively occasion happens to be expected there is a great evacuation of members from the House, the majority of whom often never return that day. One of the reasons for this, of course, is the committee meetings. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said that there were 191 members, which I take to be the combined number of members and senators, and that nearly every member has to be on at least a committee and a half if the committees which have been established are to have their membership requirements satisfied. It is far more difficult for us on this side of the chamber because the tendency is for a committee to consist of 10 peoplesix from one side and four from the other- or of 1 1 people- six from one side and five from the other. That certainly puts a greater weight on members in the House of Representatives. I happen to be on three committees- candidly, not because I want to be, but because my party would not have been able to fill the numbers on one of the committees if I had not decided to nominate. At least if I go on a committee I am a conscientious attender. I think the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  is aware of that. I often find that I have to make up a quorum for two committees at the one time, and that is not very easy. 
It is about time those who have the responsibility of looking at the Standing Orders and at the hours of sitting realised that we ought to set aside one day or part of a day each week as a committee day and not an ordinary House sitting day. At least the committees could meet sensibly. The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure, of which I happen to be a member, has the right to meet when the House is meeting. But we are no sooner meeting than we are disturbed by either quorum bells or division bells. We on the committee do not have enough sense to give ourselves pairs. Again, that seems to me to be a rather silly way to face up to our responsibilities. Like my friend the honourable member for Isaacs, I believe that Parliament is still the best form of government yet devised for the democratic system. If we are to preserve it we have to make the institution work better than it is working. I suppose it works remarkably well in some respects, but it could work a great deal better than it does. In my view it does not require any constitutional changes to make it better; it requires changes in the institutional arrangements that currently exist. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I take the rather interesting point made by my friend the Government Whip, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  that the Loan Bill 1977 is a machinery-type Bill which ought to go through the Parliament. If I may say so with some historical significance, that is not the view which was taken some two or three years ago when a similar Bill came before the House. I draw attention to the title of the Bill, namely, 'A Bill for an Act to authorize the borrowing and expending of moneys for defence purposes . One of the reasons why the wording in the title of the Bill is so carefully chosen is that borrowings for defence purposes can be made outside the mechanisms of the Loan Council. 
I have heard quite a lot in recent times about attempts to evade the Loan Council. With some respect, this has been a matter of some historical significance. I am pleased to see the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  in the House; I was surprised that he was not here earlier. Candidly, I do not agree with some points about the difference between loan and capital expenditure which were raised by the honourable member for Mackellar. But the only reason why this particular measure comes before us is that it does allow us to allocate part of whatever funds might be determined in the course of 12 months and to say that these funds are for defence purposes and they do not have to form part of the allocation by the Loan Council. 
There has been a lot of iteration about what is temporary and what is permanent, but as far as loans for defence purposes are concerned, these funds do not form part of the allocation by the Loan Council. This was the case in measures of this kind for at least the 15 years before a Labor Government came into office at the end of 1972 or the beginning of 1973. At that time, when this particular measure came before the House, instead of it being regarded as a mechanical measure it became the vehicle of obstruction, initially in this House in a craven sort of way because at least the then Opposition members of this House knew that they could not pursue the battle very far. But they chose to say: 'Oh well, in view of the time-table we will fight the issue somewhere else'. They fought it in the other place. 
I was the Treasurer at the time. There was a demand to supply answers to certain highly irrelevant questions. The matter was pursued with a great deal of vigour. I think one of the principal exponents of the objections was the lady who is now the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  It is intriguing, to say the least, to find that the matter is now regarded as merely mechanical. I never thought it was anything else, just as I regard the total presentation of the Budgetafter all, this is only part of the total presentation of the Budget- to be mechanical. 
If one looks at the figures provided in Statement No. 1 headed 'Summary of the 1977-78 Budget' attached to the Budget Speech, one sees that estimated for 1977-78 are outlays of $26,656,000,000 and receipts of $24,439,000,000-a deficit internally of $2,217,000,000. Then one sees the rather vague item 'Overseas Deficit'. With all respect to my former experts in the Treasury, I think some of them agreed with me that there was some difference in evaluating what is called an 'Overseas Deficit' when the balance of payments situation is different from one year to another. Nevertheless, the statement refers to a domestic deficit of $ 1,347m. But this Budget, does not explain any more than any other Budget explains, how that domestic deficit is to be encompassed. I suggest that there is some mystery about the overseas deficit. One of the ways in which it is to be encompassed, of course, is that there shall be public loans- borrowings from what is called the non-banking sector, as I understand the terminology. Candidly, when a Budget is brought down nobody has any conception about what that subscription is going to be or from what source it is going to come. 
Since we are having a learned discussion on this point, I am pleased to see in the chamber my friend, I hope, of long standing because we have both been in the Parliament for a long time. I disagree with him on one point: I think there is a lot of difference between public accounting and private accounting. I can understand a man who wants to buy a domestic motor car having the choice of whether to buy a humble Holden or a grandiose Mercedes, but he would be foolish if, having bought his motor car, he did not set aside something year by year to buy the next one when he felt he wanted to do so. If he is affluent enough he does not have to bother. But the community as a whole does things year by year. For example, if a person is buying 100 motor cars every year over a period of years, it seems to me that the interesting thing is the way in which he ensures he has enough money year by year to buy the additional capital stock he requires. Whether it be done by depreciation, reserves or by any other means seems to me to be a technical argument rather than anything else. 
If I may say so, it is in that regard that I differ from the opinion expressed by my friend who says that if certain things are put in what he calls a capital account as distinct from an annual income account, a deficit will not be created at all. That is very consoling, unless one looks at aggregate performances. Surely that is what a government has to do. If a government is building schools year by year, if it is building hospitals year by year, if it is building all sorts of other capital undertakings year by year and if all of those transactions are entered into an account and some kind of amortisation, some kind of interest rate, is worked out, that may be interesting from an accounting point of view, but I do not think that is the reality of capital as against annual consumption in a community. 
What we have here is only part of this subterfuge. In fact, with all respect to the experts in the chamber, I hope it is not subterfuge. It certainly becomes subterfuge if an effort is not made to explain it honestly. If I may say so with all respect, there was a dishonest attempt when I was Treasurer to use this particular event- the annual provision- for that purpose. I can remember a former friend of mine,  Mr Howson,  who is no longer in the House, bringing in this sort of Bill quietly one day. I suppose that was as far back as 1965 or thereabouts. I must say that I offered no objection to it. I accepted it as being merely a technical part of the Budget exercise. But when the Labor Government came into office, it was a different story. 
I must say that I listened with some interest today to Government supporters trying to pour scorn upon those people who endeavoured to make capital out of the Government's difficulty with the exchange rate. Any government at any time in the future will have difficulty in determining what its exchange rate ought to be. I think it would be acknowledged by the honourable member whose history goes back a long time- it goes back like mine does, to the Depression days when, I think we had less knowledge about the realities of economic circumstances than we do now- that in the final analysis the setting of an exchange rate is an arbitrary decision rather than a precise mathematical one. I think it is unfortunate that we play hazard about what the exchange rate might be, because I believe that the number of people who can take advantage of changes in the exchange rate is very small when seen in the total context of an economy. But what they in contrast to the rest of us can gain is significant. 
The Government should not play pure today in relation to what is happening in 1977 compared with what it did in 1973, 1974 and 1975. In the latter year it did what to my mind was the graveyard of democracy in that a place other than this gained ascendency in regard to where the financial decisions of his nation are made, and the Government betrayed any respect that it may now claim for trying to defend things in terms of decent constitutional usage. At no time was that better displayed than on the trivial occasions in 1974 and 1975, and even maybe in 1973. In many ways we got away with it in 1973 because I think there was at least acknowledgment in 1973 that because the Government had just been elected it was entitled to be extended the normal decencies and to be allowed to use the proper procedures. I would ask honourable members opposite, and particularly those Government members who were then in Opposition, to look at the kinds of trumped up questions that were asked of us, particularly in 1974 when what I rightly described as this mechanical issue- I agree with my friend on this point- came before us. Government supporters saw that point and the honourable gentleman in particular saw it. I suppose that he is responsible to ensure that under this legislation the sum of $1,1 00m is the precisely measured maximum amount. But I hope he knows enough to realise that even if the $ 1,100m is exceeded in one way, it will be boondoggled or accounted for in a different way. 
I believe that in an economy such as the Australian economy, which is running at an aggregate of $80,000m per annum- that is what the gross domestic product will be; it is pretty close to it now- nobody can say with precision that it is better to have a deficit of $2.2 billion without allowing for the overseas account and $ 1,300m on domestic account. Can anybody on the opposite side of the House argue against that proposition at the moment? I said this during the Budget debate. The Government is prepared to spend $800m- it may have to spend more than that because it may not have estimated the aggregates correctly- on the unemployment benefit. If I may put it crudely, in reality, something like 90 per cent of government outlays comes from taxation. The payment of the unemployment benefit means that those who are working subsidise those who are not working. Can anybody argue that it would not be better, instead of paying people two-thirds of a wage for doing nothing, to pay them a full wage for doing something? I am pleased that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  acknowledges that. 
Whilst I am not an active front bencher, I hope that I am an intelligent back bencher in the Labor Party. I find it rather intriguing at the moment to read a number of articles in overseas journals which refer to countries trying to pursue an incomes policy. An incomes policy is some attempt to keep a relationship between wages paid and available resources and the disposition between consumption and investment. I am sorry that I had to speak rather suddenly tonight. I did not expect this debate to come on so quickly. A Swedish economist has said that it is absurd in the Swedish situation- I submit that it is as absurd in the Australian situation- to think that variations in currency are any answer to the problems the country faces. I think it is about time that was acknowledged in this country. I also read recently a review by an economist of the National Westminister Bank. If I was speaking tomorrow I would have the reference with me. He said that looking at the British experience there is no warrant for suggesting that either excessive wage demands or labour militancy is responsible for the economic situation which the United Kingdom faces. I suggest that there are salutary lessons to be learnt. 
The only favourable comment made by honourable members opposite on my performance as Treasurer is that at some time I said that an increase in one man's wages may be to the detriment of another man's employment. I think there is an element of truth in that, but I do not believe that that simple syllogism contains the whole truth. I have tried to suggest that this Budget offers no solution to the basic problems of the Australian economy. I believe that that is true. After all, the Bill we are debating tonight is part of this Budget. If the problems can be simplified- I am not too sure that they can be- as being only inflation and unemployment perhaps the Budget can offer some solution. I do not believe that there are simple solutions to those twin problems. Inflation is endemic in modern affluent societies. I hope that unemployment will not become traditional in them. But it will be traditional and increasingly significant if we do not recognise that changes are taking place. 
I am afraid that nobody in the Press Gallery takes any notice of a speech unless the Press has had at least five hours notice of it and it is made by somebody called a shadow Minister or something equally insubstantial. Otherwise the Press does not report it. I do not believe that the unemployment in Australia at the moment is due to the substitution of capital for labour. That is the history of capital development. Surely the social problem is what to do with the people who have been made redundant by the machines which are taking their place? Surely everyone of us here knows that we would be a pretty primitive community if we relied on man power instead of horse power? Has not that been the history of economic development in the Western world? My reading of history indicates that there was an agricultural revolution before there was an industrial revolution and that there were differences in the industrial revolution as between one country and another. The industrial revolution occurred early in England and later in Germany, and it occurred in a different way in France. One of the horrible, odd realities of the end of World War II was that those countries whose economies had been destroyed by the war because they were not allowed to spend their affluence on armaments were able to re-equip themselves with new industrial machinery. 
This is the kind of lesson everybody has to learn. The honourable member for Mackellar is like me: He is a grandfather now, so he is also a father. Anybody who is a father of young children ought to be concerned about the employment opportunities in the years ahead. They will not occur in factories as they did before. I looked at some figures the other day. I am sorry again that I cannot be precise, but I did not expect to speak at this time of the night. At the moment significantly fewer people in Australia are employed in the textile and footwear industries, but those people are producing just as much as was produced when the numbers were greater. 
One only has to look at the aggregate of manufacturing employment in Australia today. I have referred to the Jackson report two or three times previously. If I interpret it properly it says that if Australian manufacturing industry is to hold the relative proportion of employment it now has and if it is to expand it will not do so internally; it will have to do it externally. I again ask honourable members on the other side of the House to nominate the areas where they can see potential expansion for exports of Australian manufactured products. I cannot. I am prepared to acknowledge my ignorance, but the Government side is supposed to have the wisdom. Given that it will be difficult and that the solution will be long term, where is the Government going to employ people? It was prepared to lay the blame for unemployment at our door when the figures got high enough. It did not worry about unemployment when the figures were increasing. When they got high enough it said that they were due to the terrible three years of Labor Government in Australia. That is nonsense. 
The Australian economy is not the worst in the world. If one looks honestly at figures one will see that in recent times the period when it was at its best was in 1973-74. I say again with some modesty that after the first Labor Budget in 1973 the number of houses completed in Australia was the highest ever and the total amount of employment in Australia was the highest ever. One cannot take no great credit for that. In a country such as Australia, where the population is still increasing, there ought to be more jobs one year than in the previous year and more houses ought to be constructed one year than in the previous year. Perhaps there will be ebbs and flows according to birth rates, but at least the Australian economy is not the worst in the world. But if anybody is responsible for painting it as being the worst in the word it is honourable members opposite who wanted three years to repair the economy but who would not allow us 18 months to do our task. I repeat that there is not much that we began to do that has been reversed. There is a lot of what we began to do that has been slowed down, and the people of Australia are beginning to miss it. 
Honourable members opposite had the years from 1949 to 1972, undeterred by numbers in either House, but they had no vision. They had no imagination. If I may say so, they had even slightly more talent then than I think they have now. But they are the people who are supposed to be facing up to these sorts of things. When Labor came out with this sort of legislation that is called a technical measure honourable members opposite did their best. They could not win here but they had a contrivance of numbers somewhere else. I repeat what I said in an earlier speech today that, in my view, this House negates its responsibility. After all, governments in Australia are won by the party that happens to have the most numbers in this House. We have negated our proper responsibility. When Labor came into office the upstairs place was used to deny what the people of Australia suggested the new government should do. I always find that it is from the other side of the House that the cries come about communism or dangerous forms of government. I believe that communism will come in Australia only when proper domocratic forces are denied the ability to do what the people of the country want them to do. Surely that is what the situation was. 
Let me come back to the title of this Bill which is a Bill 'to authorise the borrowing and expending of money for defence purposes'. It is only a subterfuge that such moneys expended that way do not have to go through the network of the Loan Council. What a song honourable members opposite made about certain things that did not even ultimately come before the Loan Council and what might have happened if they had done so? I think that honourable members opposite have to scratch deeper. They have to look more closely and examine more thoroughly what are the realities of Australia in 1977. In my view, the major problems that afflict the Australian economy in 1977- they were incipient in 1971 when honourable members opposite were in office, they were more evident when we came into office in 1973, and surely if they were unapparent to the obfuscated in 1971 they ought to be evident even to the most naive in 1977- are that changes are taking place in every economy that still calls itself western capitalist. They are changes in the structure and they are changes that will not be resolved by us unless we get past meagre political bickering. 
-I would like to follow my friend the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  down the path of statutory reserve deposits but I am afraid that I take quite a different view. I believe, candidly, that trading banks ought not get any interest at all on statutory reserve deposits, let alone the rate being increased as it was recently from three-quarters of a percent to 2.5 per cent. I suggest that what that has been done is found in the item which appears on page 22 of the document Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the Year Ending 30 June 1978' where, under the heading of Department of the Treasury, some $2 16m will be paid into the Treasury from the Reserve Bank of Australia. That sum may well have been greater and therefore the deficit less had this Government not been so generous to the trading banks in upping the interest on the statutory reserve deposits. But that is not what I want to talk about. 
I draw attention again to the document 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure'. On page 159 details are given of the various sections in the Treasury. I have had and still have a very high regard for the quality of the work which is done in Treasury. It is my opinion that it was silly to divide the Department of" Finance from the Department of the Treasury, but I suppose that is a technical matter about which opinions can well differ. One of the sections contained within Treasury is described as General Financial and Economic Policy Division. To begin with I say that Treasury should not and cannot be the maker of economic policy. Economic policy, as far as it is controllable at parliamentary level, is a matter for the Government. I think too much is expected of what governments can do in the totality of economic policy. Certainly Treasury ought not be responsible for the totality of economic policy. I take this opportunity to at least amplify, as I said yesterday, what seems to be the only statement attributed to me while I was Treasurer. I said that one man's wage increase can cost another man's employment. I did not say that every man's wage increase could be responsible for all the unemployment. I am afraid that that is the great folly into which the present Government has fallen. The disposition is to blame the totality of unemployment on what is called high wages. I think it is sometimes interesting to get an opinion which is different from one's own. I shall read from what I regard as not a highly radical journal and that is the  Quarterly Review of the National Westminster Bank,  which is an English bank, for February 1977. In an article entitled 'A Monetary Model of the British Economy 1880-1975' the author speaks about the British economy. I believe that to a great extent this is also relevant to Australia. The article states: 
In particular, the nation - 
That is the United Kingdom- is currently being asked to accept a series of major infringements on traditional personal freedoms largely on the basis of an unproved economic hypothesis- that the main cause of inflation is trade union cost push. However the results suggest that, on the contrary, for most of the past 95 years it is possible to explain movements in the price level quite satisfactorily in terms of the money supply. Despite our efforts it was not possible to give the concept of labour militancy any significant operational meaning, while the costpush variable finally constructed made no significant contribution to explaining the rate of wage increase. On the basis of these results, it can be argued that both the inflation and the chronic balance-of-payments difficulties of the 1970s have been the quite predictable result of excessive monetary creation. 
I suggest there is too much of a disposition in Australia to evade rational economic thinking by slinking behind slogans. A Swedish journal states: 
In an economy as open as Sweden's, the country's exchange rate is, in some ways, just as 'important' as the wage rate or the consumer price level. 
I submit that those things have to be looked at in concert rather than looked at separately. I have said here, two or three times recently, that the present unemployment problem in Australia is not being reduced in any way by any of the measures which have been taken by this Government. I heard my friend this morning saying- I do not basically disagree with him- that a lot of the unemployed in Australia are unemployable. That is a very hard thing to have to say. I think he went on to say that they are unemployable because they have no talents that anybody wants at this time. I do not know whether the fault is theirs, whether the fault is that of the education system or whether the fault is that of the industrial system. I remind the people in the community that the situation in 1977 is far different from the situation which existed in 1927 or 1937. Lord Beveridge described unemployment as 'a problem of industry'. I am not so sure that that is any longer the case. When he referred to industry he meant manufacturing industry basically. I think the situation is different in Australia in 1977. Employment opportunities are not available in Australia at the moment for those who are currently unemployed. The numbers of unemployed are being added to both by immigrants and by school leavers. I think it was said this morning that we have to create more opportunities in tertiary occupations or that we have to create more quaternary- that is the term I heard used the other day- employment opportunities. The old pattern has changed. So far we have not in any sense adapted our thinking to meet those changed circumstances. 
That is why I believe that the Parliament should put pressure on the Government to change its attitude, to seek the sort of inquiry that has been hinted at, namely, a close examination of the situation in Australia in 1977 so that a decision can be made in relation to the cause of the unemployment that exists. Surely it exists in numbers far larger than any of us would like. At least there is a social cost. There is an economic cost. No longer do we allow people to starve. We transfer funds from those who work to those who do not work via our social service system. Those people have to be paid something anyway. I said the other day that at the moment we pay them two-thirds of a wage for doing nothing. Would it not be more sensible to pay them an adequate wage for doing something? However, we have not yet found what that 'something' is. The opportunities for employment do not exist. Maybe there has to be an investment led recovery but that has not happened yet. I suggest with all respect that there has been little but scratching to ascertain just in what areas that investment should be made and from where the lead should come. 
I have been a member of this place since 195 1 and I hope that I have served with some distinction. In fact I think in the whole history of the seat of Melbourne Ports there have been only three members and I have served longer than any of them. I have decided not to nominate in the series of ballots that are being conducted by my Party. I would like to say that here in the full face of this Parliament but I must say I do so with some regret. I am now 6 1 years of age and I calculated not so very long ago when I reached the age of 60 that I had actually had in total more than 30 years in parliament. 
-I hope they were valuable years to society. I must say I hope there will be no election for about a year and that I will still be around for a while to make some contribution. I issued a statement tonight in which I said that after careful consideration I had decided not to contest the next election. If I might say so, this is a pretty difficult decision to make. But to all of the people on the other side of the House, some of whom may not be here if an election is held very shortly, I say that it is nice to have had 26 years in this place and there is something to be said for choosing a good safe seat. It is not always easy to do this. And once one has done it, it is not always easy to stay in it. 
I must say with some regret that I think things are changing somewhat. At least my Party has had a pretty good record when one looks at it. It has been pretty rare that a sitting member who has done his job has been ejected. I think that is a fairly good rule to follow. I must say with all humility that if I had decided to stand again, I might have had the privilege of another few years here. But contemplating the matter one way and another I just felt I should not contest the seat again. I made this decision with some regret. 
At the moment I happen to be a member of three committees of this Parliament. 
I could not handle six- one of the difficulties is being able to handle three. Sometimes I find that I have to make up a quorum for two committees at the same time. It is about time this Parliament decided what course it will follow. Even tonight at this interesting stage I doubt whether a quorum is present. When one considers what happens after Question Time when everyone disappears I think it is about time we began to reconsider our function. If we are to have committees- and I think they are significant in the system- we ought to change the rules a bit. This is not my resignation speech; it is simply my assignation tonight to say that I am not going to be the member for Melbourne Ports after the next election. I appreciate the opportunities I have had while I have been here and I am going to be just as useful, I hope, in the last year or so as I have been in my 20-odd years as a member. 
I still think that parliamentary government is the best kind of government that has yet been devised. However I do believe, and I said this the other evening, that we have to make certain institutional rearrangements, not constitutional changes, so that the system will work better than it is working. 
-I understand that I am to be given the indulgence usually accorded to senior statesmen and may take another few minutes of the time of the House. I am most grateful. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  you may be a continuing Presbyterian but I am a Uniting Presbyterian. At least there will be concord on this point. In my view the parliamentary system is the best system yet devised. There is some responsibility on us, the people who are members of this place from time to time. I have had a fairly long life, circumstantially, and some of the other honourable members here may not be as fortunate. I think there is more agreement or concord about most of the issues that come before us than there is disagreement. I find that we do better in committees than we do in the totality of the system. Over the years I have been a pretty good attender in the House when the business of the House is being dealt with but once that curious circumstance called Question Time finishes most honourable members vanish for the rest of the day. 
-Well, day and night if the honourable member for Riverina must say so. Where they go and what they do is a bit beyond me. I believe that we have to do more committee work in this Parliament. We have more committees now than we have ever had and I think that they do better. After all, what is worse than having embalmed in  Hansard  something that one has said to five or ten people? Do honourable members imagine that anybody else outside takes any more notice of it than honourable members do inside? 
I think it is masochism in some respects but it is a masochism that honourable members can avoid by leaving the chamber. However it is something that continues to happen. Somebody has to stay in the chamber and sometimes somebody, oddly enough, wants to call a quorum at odd times- what for, I do not know. Friends, I simply say this: Parliament is still the best system and we ought to acknowledge it. I will not say anything about the events of 11 November 1975 but I will say something about them in the next 12 months if I continue to be a member of this place. Nevertheless, there are far more things that we agree upon than we differ upon. The other day I was reading a book that impressed me very much in my fife. The book is entitled  Religion and the Rise of Capitalism  and was written by R. H. Tawney who was a great socialist. He headed one of the chapters of that book with this quotation: 
The Lord was with Joseph and he was a luckie fellowe. 
When I looked at the more modern translation of that verse it was as follows: 
Yahweh was with Joseph and everything went well with him. 
I think that is a much different interpretation of the word 'lucky' than that awful travesty  The Lucky Country  makes of it. Well, the meaning of words changes according to time and circumstances and we are here to make this country a better place than each of us found it. 
I am pleased to see that the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has returned to the chamber, and I am pleased to follow the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  because each of them represents isolated areas in a national community. I hope that the honourable member for Franklin will come back for a moment because he said something earlier about what he was supposed to be fighting for. With all respect to each honourable member, I want to say something about what each of them is fighting against. 
If the honourable member thinks it is the Labor Party, fair enough. He has an opportunity to do that continually. If I may say so, the honourable member for Franklin and the honourable member for Leichhardt are fighting against the fact that they represent isolated communities which produce products that must be sold overseas. At least I hope that they would acknowledge that. The honourable member for Leichhardt represents an electorate that sells sugar; the honourable member for Franklin represents an electorate which, if I understand him properly, sells apples. This is what the Parliament is about at times. 
I had hoped my friend might have stayed for a few minutes. At least I listened to him for the whole of his journey. I would have thought that, in all courtesy, he might have remained. 
Fair enough. He has a very charming wife, if I may say so. My friend the honourable member for Franklin said that he was fighting for certain things. All I am saying to him is that he ought to understand what he is fighting against. I think this applies equally to my friend the honourable member for Leichhardt. I just want to make this fundamental proposition: No country needs to export at all unless it wants to import. One of the great difficulties in Australia now is that we have to export and we have to import. There is no relationship between what we export and what we import. A couple of years ago I was in Nairobi- I say this in the presence of my friend the honourable member for Franklin- and I went out to a fruit market two or three miles from Nairobi. I saw on sale there, at about I5c each, what were called Australian apples. I bought one of those apples, and it was inedible. 
I am not arguing whether it was a Victorian apple. The apple that I bought was called an Australian apple. The honourable member may jest about this, but I say in all seriousness that that apple, wherever it came from in Australia, was inedible. He is from a community in which apples cannot be sold internally. They must be exported. There must be some arguments about quality. The same thing applies with regard to sugar. The same thing applies with regard to wheat. The same thing applies with regard to wool. Australia is one of the few countries capable of being an exporter of foodstuffs on a large scale. We have to decide whether we will be exporters in reasonable or viable markets or whether we will just hang around waiting for the chance of famine, flood or shortage. Today I talked to my friend the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  If I may say so, I think he has learned a little. 
I will give him credit for being a rapid learner rather than a slow learner, which I cannot say to all honourable members opposite. At least when he went overseas he saw certain things. The honourable member for Franklin said that we are fighting for certain things. We have to be sure what it is that we are fighting against. In some respects Australia is one of the most vulnerable countries in regard to export trade. 
I am pleased to see the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  in the chamber tonight. The estimates that we are considering involve an interesting combination of departments- the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity. I know that the Minister is dedicated to this sort of sequence of productivity. Now, what is productivity? As I understand the word it means getting greater output for lesser input. Surely one of the problems in Australia, and surely a reading of the Jackson Committee report is indicative enough of it, is that Australia's economic expansion in the future is vulnerable, whatever might be said. Maybe we have to pull our horns in, as it were, about manufacturing industry. I hope the Minister will respond to this debate later tonight and if he can refer to areas of manufacturing industry where Australia is likely to expand its exports I would be interested to hear about them. On the other hand we can increase our exports of coal and iron ore. I do not dare mention that curious mineral called uranium. However, if we sell them somehow we also have to buy other things and this seems to me to be the thing that has not been faced up to in Australia. 
The other day I looked at some statistics about employment in areas like textiles, footwear and motor cars. It seemed to me that we were producing as much physically in all those areas with fewer people. I do not believe we are ever going to get back to the stage in Australia where manufacturing industry is going to be the same proportional provider of total employment as it was in the past. I was going to ask a question today about what this Government has achieved in the last two years. 
-Maybe it has achieved 30 different things but I think they are 30 terminating things. Some of them cancel each other out. Has this Government reduced unemployment? Has it reduced inflation? 
All honourable members present are either fathers or grandfathers. Are they not disturbed about the availability of employment opportunities for their children and grandchildren? Productivity, as I understand it, is getting more from the same input. Mostly the lesser input is labour. What is this Government's answer to people dispossessed by the machine? Are we to keep them on the unemployment benefit or do we find some alternative work for them? I hope that the Minister for Productivity will contemplate this question. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-by leave-I appreciate what the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has said. The majority of people in Australia cannot evade one cent of the tax they are obliged to pay, but a lot of people can. One of the things which I have tried to do and which I hope all Treasurers will try to do is to avoid permitting the slickies to do what the ordinary people cannot do. I ap- preciate at any time the closing up of anyoopholes which are present in the Act. Most people have no income except their wages or salaries. They cannot get out of paying one cent of the tax they are required to pay. But a lot of people try to tura what is really income into capital. 
I think all Treasurers try to close the loopholes which permit that. I am sure that the present Treasurer has tried to do this. Most of us cannot avoid paying a single cent of tax. We pay it week by week when deductions are taken from our wages or salaries. Yet certain people try to turn income into capital. I hope that the present Treasurer will continue to do what I tried to do. We close loopholes. But every time we try to do that a combination of slick lawyers and capital accountants move in. I am against both shek lawyers and capital accountants. 
I wish to say a few words on the proposed expenditure for the Department of Education. To some extent my words have been occasioned by what the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  said earlier in this debate. I do not basically disagree with most of the things he mentioned, but I think my views might vary somewhat in that I do not believe that the colleges of advanced education should be in any sense regarded as inferior to the university system of education. In many respects there has been an over-exaggeration of university education in Australia, to the neglect of some other areas. We find in the Budget Paper National Income and Expenditure 1976-77' that on government account for the year ended June 1977 we spent $4,030m on education. That is the amount spent in the public sphere. I am not aware of the figure for non-government education but it could well have reached some $600m or $700m. In addition, on capital account we spent close to $700m. Of course these days the major pan of the expenditure on education originates in this Parliament. 
I must say that I was disturbed recently when, as a member of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure, I was told by an authority who is now engaged in an examination of what I think is called post-secondary education on behalf of the Government that of every 100 people in Australia who start off to do what is called high school or a secondary course, only 30 per cent finish. I must say the figure astonished me somewhat. 
Yes, I was rather astonished by that figure too. By comparision, in Japan, of every 100 children who start a full high school course, more than 80 finish. I ask, firstly, why only 30 are deemed fit to complete the secondary course. It would seem to indicate to me that there is something wrong with pre-secondary education in Australia. I suppose that these days what is called motivation is missing to a great extent. In some ways I am not surprised that when people go to universities they are inclined to feel that because of the way in which society is currently organised there is no job fit for them to do. Maybe there is a little bit of arrogance in that kind of assertion but I am afraid there is also a little bit of reality in it. 
The other day when we were having a debate here on employment, my friend, the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown),  indicated that he thought a large number of today's unemployed were unemployable. I do not think he meant it in the sense that they did not want to work, but in the sense that they just did not have the capacities that anybody wanted. I ask: For the 70 students who leave school before completing the full secondary course what channels of employment are currently available? I do not believe that education should equip people only to work. I think that would be a wrong attitude to adopt. But I also think it is quite unrealistic not to believe that in today's world and in the forseeable future the majority of people will have to work when they complete their education. This is why I think there has to be a better attempt to match from the beginning what education is supposed to do in terms of satisfying both cultural and the vocational responsibilities. Surely in this great technological age, even of the 30 who go beyond the high school stage not many are very well equipped to face the lands of problems that will emerge in the future. 
We have heard a lot of what is now called further education or continuing education, and sometimes rather philosophically permanent education, and that because of changing needs and circumstances people will need retraining and so on. The tragedy for Australia is that in the 23 years of Liberal-National Country Party government- from 1949 to 1972 -the Liberal and National Country parties did not think that retraining was necessary because there was then not as much unemployment as there is currently. Surely everybody must acknowledge that in 1977, and looking forward to the end of this century, manufacturing will no longer be the major source of absorbing into work of one kind or another those who go through the education system. There is no doubt whatever that quantitatively we are spending more on education now than ever before. The two sums I have mentionedthe $4,000m on current account at government level and the $700m on capital account- comprise between them 6 per cent of the gross domestic product. They account for more than 20 per cent of the total amount that is spent by all governments in Australia. 
If we add the other social welfare item, health, amounting to almost the same figure, it is about time we began to realise that, when we say that government expenditure ought to be cut, certain rigidities are involved. We suggest that the Government does not spend enough in total on education. Compared with what is spent now, the amount spent on education doubled in two years from 1972-73 to 1974-75. Of course a large part of the doubling was due to inflation. Actually in the last two years it has also increased as much as it did in that earlier period I mentioned. Education expenditure is now at least three times as much as it was four years ago. The rate of increase has not been so great but certainly the aggregate expenditure is still large and will continue to be large. It is about time we began to ask these sorts of questions: How do we integrate the needs of industry? I do not just mean manufacturing; I mean the whole aspect of total employment. How do we integrate the needs in the next 20 years to the school sample that is already beginning? After all, all the people we will need in 20 years ' time are pretty well at school already or will be within the next five years. 
It would seem to me that there is something wrong in the pre-secondary education area. Whether it is quality or something else, I do not know. I do not regard myself as proficient on this aspect of the subject, but I think that this afternoon there was some meeting of minds on both sides of the chamber in respect of the fact that all is not well with what is being done to meet the societary problems of one kind or another that we face. Most of us are doomed, if I may use that term, to being employees of somebody else. Onequarter of total employment is with government and three-quarters is still with private enterprise. I do not know whether those proportions will change but I believe they will have to. I believe that there will have to be relatively more employment in public enterprise, because the demands are tending to be more for tertiary services than for physical goods and services. I believe we should all acknowledge that there has to be a mixed economy; but I hope we are all careful to see that we do not get a mixed up economy, which I think is what we have now. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development 
Proposed expenditure, $41,540,000. 
Department of Construction 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 94,494,000. 
-Ever since 1 95 1 -52 1 have spoken on every income tax Bill that has come before this House. There was nearly as much interest then as there seems to be now in what is really the most fundamental of all the taxes that is applied or inflicted, depending on how one looks at the situation. To check on these matters, I have looked up  Mr Fadden's  Budget of 1951-52. Page 69 of  Hansard  of 26 
September 1951 shows that it was anticipated that total tax revenue would be pretty close to f 800m or, if you like to double the pounds and call them dollars, $ 1600m of which some $920m was to be found from income tax- £3 50m or $700m from individuals and a bit over £ 100m or $200m from companies. The latest Budget we have been contemplating shows that total income tax on individuals and companies will be in the region of $16 billion out of a total anticipated tax revenue of $22 billion. The proportion of income tax under this Government is higher than I would think it has ever been. 
I was a little intrigued by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  talking about reduction of taxes. This year the tax on individuals and on companies is anticipated to yield $16 billion as against $14 billion for the year before and $12 billion for the year before that. What does the honourable member mean when he talks about taxes being reduced? 
The honourable gentleman is coming to it. There are more people and there are more responsibilities. But should income taxes have gone from $ 14 billion to $ 16 billion in a single year by a ratio of one-seventh? Does that mean that per person the burden is lighter in 1977-78 than it was in 1976-77? The honourable gentleman has made great play about what he calls the new standard rate system as against an older system. No doubt if he has a safe seat he will be here for a few years to come - 
-If he has not, he might lamentably say: 'If I had seen this trick I might still have been a member of Parliament.' How can we compare one tax system, a changed system, with another? The inevitable fact is that with the changed system the total yield is still greater than it was the year before. I accept the fact for two reasons- more people and inflation. How does one deduce that the new system is more equitable than the old? The honourable gentleman has made a great play about exempting people from taxation whose income is $3,750 a year, roughly $70 a week. Who is there in the Australian community at the moment - 
-Is that the sort of person to whom the honourable member was referring? A person receiving only a pension has never paid tax in Australia. This is one of the things we have to look at a little quietly. In-so-far as there is still income splitting in the Australian community the Government is really exempting incomes in some cases in a single entity of $7,500 which may not be quite as equitable as it thinks. I am simply saying that we have to look deeper at this aspect. A tax system, its exemptions or its basic levels and rates, cannot be taken in isolation from what is allowed as deductions. One of the points I wish to raise has been drawn to our attention in the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I have advocated for years in this House- and it finally came to pass- that it would be better to take child concessions out of the Income Tax Act altogether and to look after this area by means of child endowment. The Government has taken child concessions out of the Income Tax Act and is relying on child endowment. The Government wants to take great virtue in what it calls indexation but it has quietly forgotten to index family allowances. I have said this before and I repeat it: If the Government attempts to index everything I doubt that in the long run it will index anything. But certainly, if it indexes some things and not others it is conferring a certain advantage on those who have been indexed as against those who have not. I have no doubt that one of the promises that will be tossed up in this election by honourable members opposite will be that the Government, as from 10 December, has decided to index family allowances. But why does the Government not do that now? 
I want to deal with matters one by one because this is technical legislation. There is some difficulty about what is called averaging. Again I submit that once the Government changes to the new system of taxation, it will be pretty hard to encompass averaging within it. I do not think all those loose ends have been covered by this legislation. In fact, the Government has got itself into some difficulty. I think it has overlooked some technicalities but I do not want to dwell very much upon them except to note them in passing. There are one or two matters about which I do want to say something. I should like to refer to the investment allowance. The investment allowance is what I have always called a fiction. The investment allowance means that something that costs $1,000 or $10,000 shall be presumed to have cost $2,000 or $14,000, according to the level of the investment allowance. The person receiving that allowance is allowed to write off that amount in the year in which plant is purchased and, thereafter, depreciation is claimed at the normal rates. I suggest it is a fiction to start with. I do not deny that it is a benefit to those who get it. 
The Government is most unselective, if I might say so, in its application. If it is to be a device that is supposed to stimulate investment when investment needs to be stimulated, and to retard investment if it is thought that it is booming or exuberant, then certainly it is not something that ought to have a life beyond a single year. I submit, with all respect, that what is being done now if it is to continue right up to 1982- is an investment deferral rather than an investment stimulus. I ask the honourable gentleman who told people to hurry up and get the allowance in the remaining few months: What about the people who can take until 1982 to get it? Is not that going to defer investment rather than to encourage it? I suggest to governments that if they are going to have an investment allowance it has to be like a yo-yo. It has to be something that can be rolled out and rolled up, not something that is pushed further and further forward. I have no objection to having what is called free depreciation whereby people can claim if they so desire. To do so defies accounting principles. Let people claim, if they want to, the total capital cost in the year in which they install the plant. But why should they be allowed to claim more than the plant has cost? Basically, this is what the investment allowance does. 
Another matter about which I wish to say something is the question of tax avoidance or tax evasion. I know that some people are very sensitive about whether one implies one term or another. If one looks at the estimated $16 billion that will be collected this year in income tax, one will find that nearly $10 billion of that is collected by means of what is called pay as you earn tax. The PAYE taxpayer can hardly avoid or evade a single cent of the tax that he properly has to pay. I think one of the things that happened when we altered the rate schedules recently was that we picked up a lot of people who had two jobs which formerly were worked separately for taxation purposes. It is not quite as payable now that the maximum tax is about 35c m the dollar. Again, I have no sympathy with those sorts of people either. I simply say that of the $16 billion collected in income tax, those contributing $10 billions- five parts out of eight- virtually have no potential to avoid or evade taxation. I should like to refer to what is stated in the explanatory memorandum in relation to private companies. It states: 
The provisions that establish when a company is a public company for the purpose of Division 7 of the income tax law are to be amended to overcome artificial arrangements entered into with public hospitals and other public bodies to confer public company status on what are essentially private companies. 
I must say that this is an appalling reflection on the moral approach of people who would be disturbed if they were questioned in any way about their morality. What sort of contrivance is it that would persuade the board of a public hospital- 90 per cent of whose funds come out of Consolidated Revenue anyway- to enter into an arrangement with a shrewd accountant or a shrewd lawyer whether in respect of the sale of shares or the management of a company so as to defeat the proper return that should go to the public coffers? I say this in sorrow but what sort of a situation do we have when people with certain skills- skills that we are supposedly we are short of- combine and conspire to defraud the rest of the community? This is what it amounts to. I pose again the proposition that the major part of the taxpayers of Australia cannot avoid a single cent of their legal obligation. 
Governments, when formulating their Budgets, determine they have to obtain a certain amount of revenue. If there is a shortfall in one area, it is at the expense of the other areas. This seems to me to be an appalling reflection upon the intellectual integrity of people in the community who have had the advantage- again, mainly at public expense- of better education than the rest of the community. I think it is appalling that these people are prepared to enter into conspiracy and to try to camouflage it, although not by evasion. As  Mr Justice  Mansfield said, it is the right of any section in the community to so arrange their affairs that they pay the least taxation possible. I believe the Government has the right to rebut that. Those gentlemen who would drive a coach and horse through the spirit of the law can have no resentment when the letter of the law is changed to curb that rapacity. Candidly I think it is an appalling situation that in 1977-78 we in Australia have to do this kind of thing. 
As I have said, I believe that insufficient interest is displayed by this House in these matters. This is the last occasion on which I will have the opportunity to address the House on this area. The legislation deals with the major tax which the Government is responsible for collecting. Usually such legislation passes this House with only about three honourable members from either side speaking in the debate. I believe there has got to be a new approach to this matter. We have heard in the debate tonight that one system is better than another. I might say in a kind of reflective spirit that I have always believed that the tax system should provide a basic exemption for everybody. It should provide for what I would call in other days a subsistence allowance. 
It costs everybody in the community a minimum sum of money to sustain himself and that part of his income ought not to be taxed at all. There could be arguments about what that level ought to be. There could be arguments about what circumstantial matters one takes into accountwhether people are married or single, whether they have children and so on. But we should not erect a kind of facade which suggests that somehow or other one sort of system, such as the one that is now being applauded, is better than the others. One cannot take into account exemptions only. One must take into account also deductions, the total income structure of a community, indirect as well as direct taxes, and the fact that in Australia we have three levels of government raising taxes. I think it is about time we got rid of a lot of the nonsense. 
I have received many letters expressing regret at my leaving this Parliament, but I got one or two rather curious ones whose authors thought they were having their day of retribution. One such letter stated that I was the first Treasurer to tax the old age pension as well as other income. I can see no reason why a person of 75 years of age who has the same income as a person of 25 years of age should pay less in tax than the person of 25 years of age. If honourable members on one side of the House pressed for the removal of the means test more than honourable members on the other, it was those who now sit on the Government side. The Government of which I was a member began to abolish the means test for people aged 75 years and over and we continued to abolish it for people aged 70 years and over. The present Government, which espoused the abolition of the means test in the first place, did not take that matter any further. Personally I was never in favour of the abolition of the means test. But having started it, you cannot stop in the middle. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cotter)  adjourned. 
-I wish to speak to clause 6, not to any of the proposed amendments to it. In my opinion, I do not think that the sorts of things of which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is complaining will ever be remedied while television has to be profitable to certain commercial interests. But that is not the subject of this debate. I am intrigued by the fact that clause 6 replaces an existing section in the Act. It sets out what are supposed to be the functions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The Government is proposing later to move an amendment to insert a new section 80a. I wish that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  would listen to this. Part IIIB deals with the granting of licences and proposed new section 80a says: 
In the performance of its functions under this Part, the Tribunal shall act fairly and impartially and shall observe the rules of natural justice. 
I want to know how the Tribunal is supposed to operate in respect of the matters contained in paragraphs (a) to (i) of clause 6. 1 find it hard to believe that if one is to set up a tribunal one is going to presume that it will not act fairly and impartially and will not observe whatever are supposed to be the rules of natural justice. Why put that in only in respect of the part dealing with the granting of licences? 
I have read the amendments and I am somewhat astonished. How is the Tribunal supposed to act in authorising or granting approvals or doing what the Government needs it to do? Why does this apply only in respect of the granting of licences? Is it otherwise not supposed to be acting impartially or fairly and according to the rules? I ask this in all seriousness because it will be too late to make the alteration when we come to an amendment that applies to only part of its functions. Why is it felt that the section is necessary at all? I hope that it would not be necessary. I find it hard to believe that the Government is going to set up a tribunal believing that it will not act fairly and impartially. I would have thought that the words 'fairly' and 'impartially' at least had connotations of the rules of natural justice. 
My mind sometimes boggles a bit when I find written into statutes what are called the rules of natural justice? When the Minister is speaking on the amendment he might like to indicate what are the rules of natural justice. In that case he ought to be in a seminary rather than in Parliament. I simply ask why it applies only latterly? Why is it not in the clause with which we are now dealing if the Government thinks that it is necessary that, in the performance of aU its functions, the Tribunal shall act fairly and impartially and shall observe the rules of natural justice, whatever they may be? 
-by leave-I thank the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  for his kind remarks. I thank him for the service I have enjoyed on the Committee. This Parliament has been a very difficult period because almost from week to week we have not known how many more weeks the Parliament was to sit. In the last couple of weeks the Committee has spent a great deal of time just trying to finalise what was on its plate. These matters tend to get lost if they are not finalised before the conclusion of a Parliament. 
I have appreciated the opportunity to come back on to the Committee. It has been a very valuable Committee in the 26 years or so since it was re-established. Actually there was such a committee in the very early days of the Federal Parliament; but it lapsed, I understand, for economy reasons in the 1930s. To my mind, that is simply typical of what can really be false economy. The  Chairman  referred to one or two matters. What sort of an economy is it when buildings worth hundreds of millions of dollars are the property of the Commonwealth and there are not enough firemen to look after them properly, and when there are insufficient people to work all sorts of mechanical devices satisfactorily? I think it is being rather absurd when, in the name of halting inflation, we cease to employ an individual who, if he were employed, certainly would return more in real terms than the cost of his wage or salary. It is time that this sort of thing was looked at more closely. 
I wish the Committee every success in the future, in the very important work that it has to do. I said a couple of evenings ago that I thought the first Budget that I saw presented in this House in 195 1 or 1952 was of the magnitude of a billion pounds or $2 billion. Now we contemplate Budgets of the magnitude of $22 billion. It is about time this Parliament gave far more serious attention to the work done in committees and, even at the expense of time spent in this House, made more time available during the week so that committees could sit for several hours at a time instead of having either to meet on days when the Parliament is not meeting or to try to scramble meetings either at luncheon or dinner breaks. That is not sufficient. 
The work that is done in committees is valuable. I think we get a far better relationship between members in close committee work than we do in the more intense atmosphere of this place. I found that where differences occurred on committees they tended not to be on political lines at all but to be differences of opinion about what are often technical and mechanical matters. I think all of us are better for the cross-fertilisation that can be gained through committee work. I thank the  Chairman  in particular for what he has done, and the staff of the Public Accounts Committee. I hope that the staff will be strengthened so that the work that the Committee is supposed to do can be more satisfactorily encompassed. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Garland)  put: 
I take the opportunity to talk about the beef industry incentive scheme. I was denied the opportunity in the cognate debate. I am sorry that only one member of the National Country Party is present. Nobody in the beef industry would deny that Australia has a great potential to extend its capacity. The basic market is the United States of America. A lot of capital is being made about new markets in Russia, Japan and certain other areas. The Australian beef industry at the moment, at its present level, is geared to the capacity of achieving markets in the United States, m terms both of firm quantities and firm prices. I am pleased to note the nods of approval from the other side. As Minister for Overseas Trade, I sought those sorts of conditions. I resent honourable members opposite saying that somehow or other this Government is so superior in what it has done since. We almost doubled our cattle capacity in a very short time. We did it on assurances of markets in the United States of America. That is the area that has fallen down. I do not know whether that is our fault or the fault of the United States. 
As with so many other products, Australia can become one of the great food exporters of the world. It cannot become an exporter on the assumption that we will have supplies when there is famine in some parts of the world or when there is a fall in the price of grain in another part of the world. Surely we must have assurances. There are all sorts of international committees and what are called multilateral trade negotiations. We get caught up in a very admirable formula- in the belief that somehow we can arrive at a contrivance that makes fair prices for both consumers and producers. Whether a fair price for the producing country can necessarily be regarded as a fair price for the consuming country is surely what all the nonsense of the argument is about. There is no doubt that at the moment the future of the beef industry is caught up with whether we can sell more to the United States of America at a different price from the price at which we are selling to it now. 
Why get into politics? Why argue that the present Government is doing much better than the Labor Government did? The Labor Government inherited the problem. It inherited an assurance from the United States that it would take certain quantities at what were regarded as fair prices. This may be my farewell speech. I have not asked for people of either side to be here, but it is one of those occasions that emerges. I am talking about a serious situation. Australia is potentially one of the biggest food exporters of the world, but it has to have assurances of both quantities and prices for what it is to export. If we fall back on to the home market, those in the National Country Party in particular will be in poverty for years. I think it is about time we faced up to this reality. 
The Bill is called the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Bill. What are the incentives about? Are they about getting back to the old situation of having a high home price to subsidise exports at low prices, or are they about what we ought to be talking about, the new economic order? More than two-thirds of the world is short of food. Surely their hunger will not be satisfied by current beef prices? Let us face up to the reality of the situation. Those honourable members who represent country areas know the truth of what I am saying. Some day the world will have to face up to the fact. From memory, more than fourfifths of America's grain sales are due to the production of meat that it consumes at home. Is Australia to get into that position? We can become an exporter of wheat on a large scale. We can become a major exporter of oats, maize and so on. We can become a large-scale exporter of beef, but beef is still the rich man's food. Maybe we will have to grant some indulgences in the sale of lamb and get into arguments with the unions about whether it is sold live or dead. This gets into the realities of whether there is refrigeration in the countries to which it is sold. 
This may be the last speech I make in this Parliament. I have expressed these thoughts in four or five speeches recently, but I think the issues are just as significant now. They will not be resolved in this Parliament. They will be resolved by sensible acknowledgement that Australia may well be a beleaguered country in the future. This country cannot sell ad lib unless it buys something in return. It is economic nonsense for any country to sell ad lib without buying. In the ultimate, no country should export unless it wants to import. Surely this is the hard lesson for Australia. In my view it is independent of who will be the government of this country in the next few months. I hope it is a Labor government. The present Government has done nothing in the two years it as been in office to face up to the fundamental economic problems of this country. I would put them almost in line. We are a beleagured country. I have said this jokingly sometimes: If by some jest of nature the Australian continent were turned upside down overnight so that all of us were drowned, we would be the least missed country in the world and the greatest grievers would be Greece and Italy which have supplied our most recently arrived migrants. The United Kingdom would have long ago forgotten us. 
I am simply putting a question to you gentlemen opposite. There are no ladies present here. This is indicative of how antiquated this place is. Is this not the reality of the situation? The Government is going to the people now arguing about whether inflation is this rate or unemployment is that rate. Where are the economic opportunities in Australia in the next two years irrespective of who is the government? The Government is trying to say that it has brought inflation down to less than double digit figures. Is 8 per cent in one year any worse than 1 6 per cent over two years, or is it less than 10 per cent or whatever it is in one year? Inflation of 8 per cent creates great economic problems. 
How much less, my friend? You taught economics. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is irrelevant enough at the moment without answering interjections. I think the honourable member might come back to the Bill. 
I am talking about the future of the beef industry. 
I second the amendment,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I exercise my right to speak to it. As my friend the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has said, this Bill has been on the stocks for a considerable time. My understanding is that it provides for a capitalisation of $45m. I ask honourable gentlemen to look at a document entitled 'A Review of Credit in the Australian Rural Sector' which was issued to this Parliament in May 1977, 1 draw attention particularly to what is referred to at page 104 as rural indebtedness. The latest figures available are to the end of 1975, but I do not think the situation would have improved to the end of 1976. The figures show that the estimated gross rural indebtedness at the end of 1975 was $3,076m. What difference will a new institution with a capital of $45m, or roughtly one-seventieth of that indebtedness, make to the total situation? 
-I am pleased to hear so many defenders of the ratio of $45 m to $3 billion, particularly from a Government that at the moment is indulging in a credit squeeze for the rest of the community. 
-At least listen to the realities. 
-Well, what is it? 
-My friend is explaining that it is not $45 m; it is something more than that. But what is it in relation to the total indebtedness of the farming community at the moment of $3 billion? Honourable gentlemen opposite have been arguing that somehow there is something wrong with what is called the Budget deficit, and that what is wrong with the Budget deficit is that it should not be increased. If rural credit is expanded from the sort of sources that are supposed to be available, is not the overall deficit increased? Is there not an argument at the moment about expanding credit? If I may say so, the National Country Party is dedicated to the principle of more for the farmers and less for the rest, 
If I am half right, I have a 75 per cent success rate. Let us look at the figures. Of that $3 billion the major source is from the trading banks which at the moment provide $ 1,220m. That can be expressed as 12 over 30, which is a fairly large proportion. Pastoral finance companies provide $225m, the Commonwealth Development Bank $232m and assurance companies $104m. Ex-service settlements account for $58m. Other government agencies provide $5 54m. Those areas between them make up four-fifths of the available credit. 
-There has to be a start, does there not? All I am suggesting is that honourable members are making a great emblazoning of this proposition that $45m in terms of total farmer indebtedness of more than $3 billion somehow will make the difference between survival and death of what particular farmers I do not know. 
I sometimes said facetiously that until I became Treasurer it seemed that anybody anywhere in any part of Australia could go to any financial institution and get all the credit he wanted. Surely no honourable members believe that. It was easy when we had a Labor government. I am afraid that bank managers in particular condoned the exercise. They said: 'The only reason you cannot get an overdraft now is because you have a terrible Labor Treasurer'. 
-Nothing has changed. The only thing that has not changed- I am sure my friend the honourable member for Moore knows this- is that there are always more demands for credit than can be met. Choices have to be made between who gets credit and who does not. This is similar to something I said earlier tonight. I hope it will be accepted as a fundamental proposition. If honourable members believe that by this piece of legislation more credit will be made available to a particular area it is nonsense to say that credit cannot be made available to other areas. In a situation where something like a quarter of a million people are unemployed I think it is nonsense to suggest that if somehow unemployed manpower and available resources cannot be brought together it is adding to inflation. As I see it this is the essence of this debate. If there is a virtue in making credit available to the rural sector, why is there no virtue in making credit available to the non-rural sector? 
I heard today asked of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  a question which arose out of a statement in today's  Australian Financial Review  that certain economists from other parts of the world meeting at the Brookings Institutewhich is a body that collects together economists from all parts of the world- said that there should be expansionary policies. I am not objecting to additional credit being made available to the rural areas. All I am suggesting is that plenty of institutions already are available which can extend credit. Why do we have to have a new body to do this? Is the problem that the rural industries at the moment do not have credit or that the people who live in those areas are in situations of economic decadance? We cannot isolate one area of an economy from the rest. 
The prosperity of the rural community in Australia depends upon two things, namely, that part of the product which one sells internally and that part of the product which one sells externally. Most of the members of the National Country Party of Australia whom I see around the chamber at the moment are in areas where the products which are produced are sold externally, such as wool, over 90 per cent; wheat, something like 75 per cent; sugar, as I understand it as least 66.6 per cent; dried fruits, if my friend at the back - 
The honourable member is not far from dried fruits. I thought the honourable members were a band of dedicated brothers with each for all and all for each so that what went wrong in one area might come right in another. In all seriousness, do members of the National Country Party think their problems will be improved one inch by setting up a new institution? Figures which I have show that $3 billion has been extended in rural credit one way or the other. The Government is setting up an institution with a capital of $45 m. Goodness knows how long it will take to start the institution. It certainly will not happen before 10 December, so the problems are not one whit abated by the passing of this measure tonight. The Government has talked about this proposal for nearly two years but it is just now in the process of doing something. 
-I am against the humbug. An additional amount of $45m will not abate the kinds of problems the honourable member thinks exist. If I am asked whether I deny that problems exist, the answer is no. I simply ask honourable members: 'Do you think this tittle will make a fundamental difference to the problems which exist in rural industries in Australia?' The problems of rural industries in Australia are bound up with the totality of Australian industry. I have the report of the Industries Assistance Commission before me. It states that we should not continue to export and do nothing about importing on the other side. I take it the honourable members in the National Country Party are involved with wheat, wool and sugar. They are not all concerned with minerals. We have to look at things like capital outflow or less imports of capital. Surely these are the central problems of the Australian economy at the moment. 
I have said that a speech might be my final speech several times now but I find that things keep coming up. But I do not find that the answers keep coming up. We have problems of unemployment at the moment. There is a decline in the totality of manufacturing to absorb people. They certainly will not be absorbed in rural activity. Whether honourable members believe that this $45m in terms of $3 billion already committed on rural credit will make one very marginal difference to the totality, I do not. 
I am simply asking what the Government is doing. Honourable members opposite say that they are doing something by setting up this new institution. I simply say kindly that there is no shortage of financial institutions already in existence. 
-Then there is something wrong with the honourable member and his action on the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I think my friend here, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  has sort of suggested that in a different fashion. Honourable members opposite regard him as a curiosity. 
-He is at least closer to the honourable member now than he used to be but he does not get too many seconders for his propositions. 
In my view, there is not. There are rural sections in the existing trading banks. There is the Commonwealth Development Bank. There is the Rural Bank of New South Wales. There is a bank in Western Australia which is supposed to be a rural bank. There is a section in Victoria called rural rehabilitation and so on. The provision of another $45m will have no effect before 10 December. If some honourable members think that that is the answer to the problems I am sure my friend the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in a way does not. Years ago we had the arguments about the McEwen Bank and the McMahon Bank. We have one or other of them now, I am not quite sure which, but honourable members opposite still think there is a deficiency in totality, and so do I. 
One has only to read the Industries Assistance Commission report and documents written 30 years ago by what was called the Rural Reconstruction Committee to see that they said that one of the great deficiencies always is the provision of rural credit. We know that the difficulty of rural credit is that the producer has to produce at the beginning of the year, there are hazards between the beginning of the year and the production of the crop, and somehow the producer has to carry on. He has been accommodated by banks, by pastoral companies and by what they call their own co-operative systems. But what is it now that honourable members opposite think will breech this fundamental deficiency by the production on the eve of an election of something that they call this Australian Rural Bank? If honourable members opposite believe that I think they will believe anything, and sometimes I think they do believe anything. I think they believe there is nothing in the future. Australia's future depends on industry. It depends on primary activity and upon the exports of primary products. This is one of the great problems of the National Country Party's great man years ago,  Mr McEwen.  He used to say that we do not determine the prices overseas; we have to live with them. Tins is still true. I think one of the great curiosities is that at the same time the Japanese were haggling that the price of sugar was too high we were haggling that the price of iron ore was too low. 
-How much of the total export of wheat did Chile take? 
In recent times our problem has been that we have had less wheat to deliver to potential customers who needed it. Honourable members opposite pick one extreme. At the moment our great problem is that because of seasonal circumstances we have less wheat to deliver than we would like to deliver. In my view this is the final problem. One of the great difficulties still facing Australian rural activity is that of seasonal problems but we also have to get certainty of markets if we are to be the supplier to the rest of the world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-First of all,  Mr Speaker,  I say that you have surprised me as a  Speaker.  I think you have been a great success. You have been a good  Speaker.  I am also surprised somewhat by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I think that underneath he must be a believer in slow torture if, after spending so long in this place, he hopes to go to the other place. Candidly, I hope he does not get there. I think that the fewer independents there are in the Senate the better. The realisation that it is one's last day in the Parliament is a somewhat eerie experience. I suppose that there are some honourable members here who hope that it is not their last day. They may not be as blessed as they think. 
I do not want to have to thank a long catalogue of people. There are too many people to thank. Perhaps I should thank the electors of Melbourne Ports. That electorate has had, I think, only three representatives in the whole of its history, and I have served it longer than anybody else. At least I am grateful for having had that opportunity. 
There is one other thing I would like to say, and perhaps it is the final comment I will be making. There is a lot of talk in Australia at the moment about the necessity for constitutional reform. I believe there is a great need for institutional reform, and one of the institutions which needs to begin to reform itself is this chamber. Like other honourable members, I count it a privilege to have been among the one hundredodd members of Parliament who at any one time make up the numbers in this place. I believe that the Parliament could be far more efficient than it has been in the utilisation of the talents of its members. Immediately Question Time has concluded, on most occasions, this chamber becomes almost empty of members. That is not a very good state of affairs for a parliament. Committees endeavour to meet while the Parliament is sitting. It is a very difficult situation indeed. I believe that much of the more important work of this Parliament, and of this House in particular, has to be carried out to an increasing extent by committees rather than in this chamber. 
So I leave, as I say, with a rather sweet and sour feeling about my last day in this place. I value the experience I have gamed here. I must say that I have been moved by the number of people from both sides of this House, and the number of people who work in and around the parliament, who have told me that they will miss me. I do not want to be sentimental and talk about my family but at least they will see a little more of me in the future. Whether they will thank me for my decision remains to be seen. 
