I want to express the appreciation of the Opposition to. the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  for the fact that he gave us a very early copy of the statement which he intended to make and thus enabled it to be studied. It is desirable, because of the enormous difficulties of one people ruling another with justice, that there should be as much consensus as possible in this House as to what should be done in Papua and New Guinea. The early supply of the paper, indicating the Minister's courtesy towards the Opposition, is the sort of thing which may help that to occur. But the statement does not indicate that it is the intention of the Government to reduce in any degree the real power in Papua and New Guinea - expatriate power; nor does it establish the responsibility of Ministerial Members to a parliamentary majority in the House of Assembly. 
There should now be a clear reduction of expatriate power. The establishment of the responsibility of Ministers to a parliamentary majority, if it is the Westminster system that is the aim, is an essential change, and this change was expressly disavowed. The Minister at no stage suggested that there was any power. He constantly used the word 'influence'. I draw attention to the following words in the Minister's statement: 
This increase in the power and influence of the Council is qualitative in character. It is not to be measured in terms of specific powers, individual acts of administration or areas of policy or increased financial delegations, but it will be apparent by the degree to which the Administrator's Executive Council in future influences the Government's attitude on important issues. 
That may be influence; it is not power, lt is essential at this stage that the Ministerial Members should be trained in the exercise of power, not in the exercise of influence. The statement marks a further evolution of the Administrator back towards the position of a 19th century governor and his executive council, yet the Minister imagines that this is progress towards self government. It is not even really a further step towards the Westminster system. Yet it shows a complete un awareness of a possible line of constitutional development that has been asked for by the  Speaker  of the House of Assembly and shown in the questions asked of witnesses by the members of the House of Assembly committee investigating the constitutional structure. This is a possible development of a presidential system of government. 
The Commonwealth Government thinks it is teaching a Westminster system. If the Government wants to do the job on Westminster lines, it really should do it by providing for ministerial responsibility to Parliament. What the people are getting de facto is education in a presidential system while being told that it is evolution towards a Westminster system. This is the worst of both worlds. Whilst I do not want to refer to it any further, there is also in the system of Papua and New Guinea a dash of the Swiss arrangement in that Ministers are elected trans-party in the House of Assembly. This is a characteristic of the Swiss constitution and no other. But this system is inevitable if, while the Government says it is assisting the Territory towards a Westminster system, it is in fact discouraging parties and especially Opposition parties. If the essence of power is in expatriate hands, Oppositions are in opposition to expatriates and that we will never encourage. 1 want to stress the .point on the education that the Government thinks that it is giving. Julius Nyerere, Milton Obote, Hastings Banda, Kwame Nkrumah and Jomo Kenyatta were all ostensibly, in the mind of the British, given an education in the Westminster system. But what power did they in fact aspire to exercise. Not that of a Prime Minister whom they never saw and therefore could not model themselves upon, but that of a governor with a plenitude of power. So what has happened is that after 70 or 80 years of rule of their country by absolute power in the hands of the Governor, that is the model they had in mind and those are the powers they in fact now exercise. For 80 years before Papuan and New Guinean eyes, whether demonstrated by the Germans or by ourselves, the model of government they have seen is a governor or administrator exercising absolute power. At this stage when we imagine we are stepping forward towards the Westminster system, we have an explicit statement of the responsibility of Ministers to the Administrator in his Executive Council. lt is no wonder that men like John Guise say: 'What we want is a presidential form of government*. That in fact is the form of government they have had. The Administrator and the Governors in the past, choosing their advisers, corresponded very much more closely to an American  president  choosing his cabinet from outside Parliament or Congress than they ever did to a British Prime Minister with a parliamentary Cabinet within the Westminster system. 
That is a matter for John Guise to explain if he likes. All I am saying is that the education is coming not from your words but from the form of government that you are in fact operating as a model before their eyes. This happened in Africa. There the people have gone back much more closely to an approximation of a 19th century governor than to a British Prime Minister. The Ministers and the Assistant Ministers in the House of Assembly are left completely unable to accept the sort of responsibilities that Ministers usually accept in Britain and Australia. Expatriate power overriding them ensures this and this is destroying them. Their prospective defeat at elections is expected everywhere just as the defeat of the Parliamentary Under Secretaries occurred in the 1968 election. The belief of the people, and it is a right belief, is that power is actually in the hands of expatriates and members who reach one of these key ministerial member positions are expected to make representations to the real Government - the Administrator and his expatriate staff - seeking what they want but that these members do not go back often enough to the constituency to find out what the electors want. That is the criticism the people had of the former Parliament Under Secretaries, who were defeated holus bolus, and that is their criticism of the present Ministerial Members. On this basis the defeat of the Ministerial Members is expected everywhere. They cannot make real decisions in the interests of their people. 
If the Government wants a Westminster system, it must encourage parties. But the real attitude of the Government towards the Pangu Party and to those who go into opposition to what the expatriates are doing is that any sort of criticism of what we are doing in Papua and New Guinea is fundamentally very ignorant or ill willed and that these parties are quite wrong and really should not exist. Of course, nothing is done to abolish them - I am not suggesting that - but the whole attitude discourages parties. The Government is not moving towards a Westminster system if it discourages parties, because without parties we cannot have the responsibility of Ministers to a clear majority in the House of Assembly. The Government actively dislikes dissent and this dislike tends to the systematic misleading of the House of Assembly. 
I sat in the House of Assembly and heard the official members saying in effect to the native members: 'Now, do not rock the boat on these Bougainville arrangements. The copper there is not all that valuable and if you make too many criticisms the company might go away.' Well, the 'Australian' mentioned deals on Bougainville copper worth $ 1,700m in its mining reports last week and I very much doubt whether the company would want to. go away. The information available to Ministerial Members and other members of the House of Assembly when making decisions, which were all subsequently repudiated, was completely misleading. The company was prepared to pay very much more than the Administration was prepared to seek on behalf of the people. I am afraid that the Ministerial Members will become a new form of facade. The House of Assembly has practically no access to libraries and no independent access to information, and almost no information except what is given it by the Administration, and so we have policy going round in a circle. It seemed completely true to Oala Oala-Rarua, judging by his speeches, that $105 an acre for the land at Bougainville was fair and all that could be expected. Why? Because that is what he had been told. The people who said it was utterly unfair were discussed as though they were bad, disaffected people and ultimately, after the clashes, the whole policy had to be reversed. 
A further point is that the Administration divides the nation. I say this with regret; I have said it in the House before but I will say it again because I regard it as being deadly serious. It made my blood run cold when I saw what happened after what might be called intellectual coastal natives made some demands on behalf of their people. After all we are training the House in the language of demand. The standard procedure of the nominated members of the House of Assembly was to invoke the highland majority and say: 'What will happen to you fellows if they get what they are seeking? You do not have nearly as much in the highlands.' If a highland administration party is not being created by these methods, I do not know what a party is. However, it is not called a party. All I want to say as a warning is that the British did this in Nigeria. The nice, Moslem uneducated people of the north could always be invoked against the Ibos of what later became Biafra. So long as the British wanted to rule Nigeria, they fanned the divisions and we have all seen the consequences. All I say to the Administration in Papua and New Guinea and to the planters in Papua and New Guinea who think they can build privilege on nice, docile, backward highland members is to stop fanning divisions in the country. That is what is happening there now. 
Constant claims are made by the Government that whatever it does is what the people want. If. the Government had chosen to establish an American presidential system, there would have been no criticism. Does the Government seriously suggest that the villagers are saying: 'Now the time has come for the Ministerial Members to take the changes set out in the approved changes mentioned by the Minister'? Of course they are not. We are expected to know what government, is. The models put forward by Australia are accepted. 
There was once a gallup poll on the TaftHartley Act, which was a labour law in the United States, and 75% of the people said that they were against it. Then the same gallup poll asked them about every clause of the Act, and never less than 70% of the people said that they were for every one of them. But Taft-Hartley had become a bad label. We have found that in Papua-New Guinea self government has become a bad label, because the Government in its utterances has not made a clear distinction between self government and independence. The Labor Party delegation asked the people there, including Ministerial Members, if they thought the House of Assembly should control education, agriculture and fisheries and so on, and listed what amounted to the whole structure of self government. They said yes to every power. The only things they did not believe in controlling were defence and foreign policy. Of course, if the House of Assembly and a Cabinet had control over defence and foreign policy they would have complete independence. They were in fact universally in favour of seu! government as a list of powers. But the words 'self government' had been made fear words. Whatever the Government wants, it says, is what the people want. Where the Government dares not claim this, as in the Bougainville attempted land seizures in Bougainville and in the reduction of the wage scales of local officers in the Public Service, it says: This is for their good'. 
The expected inability of Ministerial Members to hold their seats is  a  point  I  mentioned earlier. There is confusion in Papua-New Guinea on nearly everything. There was confusion about taxation. We in Australia first heard that there were going to be prosecutions of various residents of the Gazelle Council area. Then - horror of horrors - it was found that the taxes that had been imposed for  a  few years were illegally imposed and the House had to be assembled hastily to give retrospective validity to the laws. There was confusion in the House of Assembly on the Bougainville question and there is confusion on native councils. The Administration is playing a dangerous game in ordering the exercise of force against a section and getting all other sections to applaud. When the Administration sent the police to Bougainville the majority of the House of Assembly applauded. It also applauded the complete change in policy. 
I want to warn the Government that it cannot with impunity use the House of Assembly as a weapon against indigenous people on a question like land. The House was really a mask for what the Commonwealth was doing.. The High Court has ruled that the Government could take all the land of Papua-New Guinea. I do not mean that those words were used. The High Court has ruled in effect that the exercise of sovereign power over land by the Germans before us and by us now is established as valid. We can take land, but we have preferred to do it through the House of Assembly. The issue of land is a very deep one among the people of Papua-New Guinea. Land is the one thing that they possess when the expatriates possess all else. 
II the Government uses the House of Assembly as an instrument to deprive the people of their land it has Buckley's chance of maintaining a united Papua-New Guinea. In Bougainville and in New Britain secession movements are developing. I think that by the exercise of force the Government has reached the point where the best thing it can hope for in the future is a federation, with local government or provincial government in some of these areas exercising power over land as a means of defending the areas against Port Moresby. Otherwise Ministerial Members will be blithely saying as they say in conversation, if not in the House of Assembly, that they are going to share out the wealth of the people of Bougainville. But if one should go to those same Ministerial Members and suggest that the Government should take their land there would be a violent reaction in the other direction - a denial of powers to act or of justice in acting. 
If the Government wants to give training to a future government of Papua-New Guinea in dispossessing expatriate businesses I imagine that the training given in Bougainville could not be bettered. I warn honourable members that the native people will model themselves on what the Government does and not on what it says. If an extreme exercise of sovereign power is possible and if land is taken by force at a price which the Government chooses to nominate it will be fair enough if that is done by a future native government to Burns Philp or someone else. I do not advocate that. I am just warning the Government of the force of the example of the exercise of government power which it in fact has given. 
The members of the House of Assembly are confused about self government and independence, and they are being kept that way. Instead of transferring power, the prime concern seems to be with new ways of concealing what is essentially expatriate power. There is a widespread folly in Papua and New Guinea in criticising an entity called the United Nations and in encouraging all the indigenes to do that. The entity of the United Nations might be very unworthy, but by 87 votes to none and by about 127 votes to none the instructed delegates of other governments at the United Nations have said that Papua-New Guinea ought to be independent. As Australia is one of the crowd which chases Rhodesia, do not let us forget that there may be a similar crowd chasing us. I do not flout the opinion of the world; I do not say that this opinion is the final determining consideration; but if the only answer to United Nations criticism is the form of consultation we maintain with the people of Papua and New Guinea now, our position is weak. To weigh against the opinions of 127 nations, including the United States of America, our present intentions, I think is a mistaken approach to the world. 
There is a fear that an independent government will make mistakes. Papua and New Guinea must make mistakes. The Australian Government made very bad mistakes in Bougainville and it has made another bad mistake in relation to the Mataungans. The only way in which the Papua and New Guinea government will learn to govern is by making its own mistakes and achieving successes. It has to be allowed to make those mistakes in the period before independence, when some of the mistakes may not be so serious and when Australian can perhaps assist in rectifying the blunders. It is not right to hold before the local people the idea that the coming of self government or independence means the abandonment of Australia's interest in them. That needs to be made clear if we are genuinely seeking uncoerced expressions of their opinion of the various stages of constitutional development. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Calder)  adjourned. 
As far as I am aware Australia has never adopted the position that any man was entitled as of right, to a passport. The great jurist. Blackstone, did contend at one stage that the King had no right to refuse any Englishman the right to leave his dominion by refusing him whatever were the travel documents or authorisations of Blackstone's day. What is important in the case of Wilfred Burchett is to find out what the Government's theory is on the issue of passports. Burchett, says the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  is guilty of high treason and therefore he should not have a passport. If I were certain that Burchett is guilty of high treason I would say he should be indicted for high treason. That appears to me to be the logical conclusion and not the refusal of a passport. 
What is the Government's theory on the issue of passports? There is in Rhodesia what this Government calls a 'regime'. We do not call it a government because we do not recognise it. It is in a state of rebellion against the Crown. The CommanderinChief of the Rhodesian Army resigned his position. He said that what he was called upon to do was a violation of his oath and what he in fact should be doing was leading the Rhodesian armed forces to overthrow what we call the 'self-styled government of Rhodesia'. But all members of that selfstyled government of Rhodesia, including the Duke of Montrose, would immediately be arrested and indicted for high treason if they went to the United Kingdom. That government of Rhodesia is recognised by Portugal and by South Africa. Its accredited emissary to Portugal is Colonel Knox and its accredited emissary to South Africa is Air Vice-Marshal Hawkins, both of whom travel on Australian passports issued by this Government because they could not travel on Rhodesian passports which very few countries in the world recognise. 
As far as I understand, the position of the Commander-in-Chief of the Rhodesian Army was the correct one. The members of the government of Rhodesia are violating their oaths of allegiance to the Crown and are in a state of rebellion against the Crown. But three key figures - the emissary to Portugal, the emissary to South Africa and the head of the Rhodesian Department of External Affairs - hold Australian passports. I am not prepared to get up in this House and demand that their passports be recalled. I would like to see a passport a constitutional right. If a person commits treason he is then indicted for high treason. But the compulsory retention of a person inside his own country has not anything to do with a passport. I am not arguing that Hawkins, Knox or O'Donnell should have their passports cancelled. But I want to know on what ground this Government issues passports to men who, on its own theory, operate on Australian passports as emissaries of a regime which is in a state of rebellion against the Crown. 
This definite matter of public importance is raised by the Opposition in the conviction that it is impossible for findings so serious  as those made by David Jose and John Welch in their research, the results of which were published in the Medical Journal of Australia for 21st February 1970, to pass without comment in this Parliament. The article is headed with medical expressions I will not read. It deals with the growth retardation, anaemia, infection and protein calorie malnutrition of Australian Aboriginal children. The lesson that the Opposition draws from this is that there is a need for a very strong lead from the Commonwealth to rehabilitate the Aboriginal people. 
I should like to read from the findings of Jose and Welch resulting from their study of 2,250 Aboriginal children. They say: 
Growth measurements and clinical data were obtained from 2,250 children on six Aboriginal settlements in Queensland. Growth retardation affected up to 50% of Aboriginal children aged between 6 months and 3 years. Severe retardation occurred in 16% of this age group and was accompanied by anaemia and infection. At two missions where early infant feeding was supervised children showed normal growth patterns, suggesting that Caucasian growth standards also apply to Aboriginal children. Genetic factors influenced growth variations in some areas. Clinical and dietary findings, lower concentrations of nutritional factors in the blood of growthretarded children in relation to normal controls, and growth responses following the addition of specific nutrients to the diet, suggested a deficiency of multiple nutritional factors in these children. Commonest deficiencies detected were of iron, ascorbic acid and total calories, but low serum concentrations of albumin, cholesterol, folate and other vitamins were frequently found. 
Nutritional deficiency in pregnant mothers and infants, and inadequate early infant feeding were considered primary initiating factors, but infections, with subsequent intestinal malabsorption, were important secondary factors precipitating and maintaining growth retardation..... 
A high proportion of children dying from gastroenteritis or pneumonia, or found to be suffering from deafness, had a previous history of growth retardation. Some evidence was presented that children with growth retardation have poorer educational and employment records than children with normal infant growth. 
Later in the same report, they also say: 
Chronic and recurrent bacterial infection of the nasal sinuses, throat, middle ear, and lower respiratory tract is a further important source of morbidity, with high rates of deafness and bronchiectasis. Infection also reduces the nutritive value of the diet to the consumer. Chronic streptococcal infection of the tonsil with unusually high antibody responses in growth-retarded children may be related to the high prevalence of rheumatic heart disease in Aboriginal children. 
The leading article of the journal makes these comments on the intensely analytical article which it published: 
Millions of the world's children suffer from malnutrition; that the Aboriginal child is no exception is suggested by a series of reports describing the situation in our own country, published by G. M. Maxwell and R. B. Elliott in 1969, by E. S. Kettle in 1966 and by D. G. Jose and J. S. Welch in this issue. Whatever the name given to the condition - 'protein-calorie' malnutrition, infantile marasmus, 'postweaning' growth failure, or what have you - the end result is the same: The child is substantially below expected levels of height and weight for age. The parameter of age is important in the diagnosis, lt is not uncommon perhaps to see fairly well-covered children, who superficially look normal. The remark is made: 'What a sweet 3-year-old!' The tragedy is that he is exactly 6. This is malnutrition. 
The condition emerges in the second 6 months of life; by the age of 2 years, a large proportion of the children studied are affected. At the same time, the death rates begin to rise. As in the developing' countries (where malnutrition is common and freely admitted), Aboriginal children have a high death rate and are plagued by gastro-enteritis, respiratory disease, and chronic ear, nose and throat conditions; all of this is superimposed upon a rising Aboriginal birth rate. 
Common sense would suggest that lack of food is the likeliest cause of malnutrition; that this may be so for the Aboriginal infant is supported by the finding that breast-milk alone has insufficient calories for good growth in the later months of life, as was reported last year by R. B. Elliott and his colleagues. In older children, the caloric lack must have other causes. The likely ones are poverty, ignorance, and a 'cultural' block towards the adoption of rational feeding habits; of these three perhaps the first is the most important, since levels of ignorance and cultural patterns vary in this world, yet poverty and malnutrition are ubiquitous. 
The article goes on to say: 
We hear that a national nutritional survey of Aboriginal children is planned; this may well only confirm the facts which we now have. Would it not be reasonable to accept that malnutrition exists, and to plan and finance a multi-disciplinary pilot study into its prevention and treatment? 
Whatever controversies there may be about the assimilation or integration of Aboriginals or about Aboriginal land rights, there ought to be no controversy about their health, especially the health of their children. The Commonwealth should never rest content until all the facts are out in the open. lt should accept as objectives the reduction of Aboriginal nec-natal infant, child and maternal mortality to the low levels of the community generally. For a long while there has been a pseudo-liberal approach  to this by State governments, which have said: 'We do not recognise race. We do not keep separate statistics on Aboriginal mortality. That means that we do not want to find out because we do not want to be under a pressure to cure them'. 
The Western Australian Government, after some pressure, accepted the challenge that it should take a look at Aboriginal infant mortality and the immediate effect was that it found that Aboriginal infant mortality in Western Australia was 120 per 1,000 compared with about 19 per 1,000 for the general community. It then began to take steps to reduce the mortality rate, and the rate is now down to 60 per 1,000. But in most areas, because we refuse to classify people according to race, we do not have the special statistics we ought to have, and so we are dependent on private surveys in the Northern Territory such as that conducted by  Dr Lancaster-Jones,  which showed that in some areas of the Northern Territory the Aboriginal infant mortality rate was 200 per 1,000 compared with less than 20 per 1,000 for the European community. I have seen the statistics for Alice Springs. They are not kept separately according to races but those who have abstracted them, in what is, at any rate, a high degree of likelihood as to selection of race, show that in those considered to be Aboriginals there is a very, very high mortality rate indeed. 
I think we have to accept that Aboriginal poverty is not like any other poverty. I know that the Minister for Social Services and Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  is aware of these things but we also have to accept the fact that no State Government at the present time has any adequate philosophy of total attack on this problem. One of the best minds on this subject said, referring to State governments: 
Governments do not have the professional expertise to devise appropriate plans for social and economic advancement. Aboriginal administration traditionally has been concerned with policies of protection, control, and welfare. These policies are essentially static in their purpose and intent, and their required administrative personnel, police, doctors, welfare officers and clerks. For social and economic advancement the personnel requirements are also pre-school, kindergarten, primary school, secondary and technical school and adult education teachers, infant health sisters, homemakers, youth counsellors and supervisors, em ployment counsellors and supervisors, cottage parents and hostel managers, all with understanding and skills required to deal with Aboriginal and part-Aboriginal people and situations. 
I think the Commonwealth must take a stand in its own right in relation to this matter. Whatever it does to rehabilitate the Aboriginal people will not clash with the State governments if it is done with genuine intention and if the States have worthy motives. 
I want to say one thing about other forms of government: There are certain local governments in Australia which have large Aboriginal populations in their areas and which do not have the funds to carry out the water supply schemes, sewerage schemes, and so on, on Aboriginal settlements that they might want to carry out. It is very unfair to leave to local government the provision of these very necessary facilities. Local government has a very great deal to do with Aboriginal needs. This leaves those local governments with large Aboriginal populations floundering, and subject, of course, to a very great deal of criticism because in point of fact they can do nothing. The Commonwealth now having its own standing, should make direct grants to those local government authorities which are affected in this way. 
The other point I would like to make is this: I think the Australian people were tired of the situation that existed for so many years in relation to Aboriginal policy when the States contended that the Commonwealth had the money and the Commonwealth contended that it did not have the necessary constitutional power. Now I believe the Commonwealth has the resources to attack this problem and it now has the constitutional power, since the prohibition on it was removed by the greatest majority of Australian people in history in the referendum of May 1967. I hope we will just pick up and put in the waste paper basket jargon like 'assimilation' or 'integration' or all those sort of things that are supposed to be a policy but which are not any policy at all. It is no use asking the welfare officers: 'What have you done to assimilate the Aboriginals today?' There is nothing that they can answer because the expression of policy has no meaning - no meaning at all. It does not put the administration under any discipline of achievement whatsoever. But you can ask: 'What have you done to reduce infant mortality, neonatal mortality, child mortality, maternal mortality, to eliminate tuberculosis' - from which Aboriginals are almost the only sufferers - 'to lift levels of employment and of education, and to train adults who are illiterate?' All these things are specific policy goals which we have been lacking so long in Aboriginal policy. These are things that really do put the administration under some kind of discipline of achievement. 
I think that the interest of the Minister is undoubted but I think his political position is somewhat tragic.  His  predecessor as Minister for Territories had control of the physical resources of the Northern Territory and also Aboriginal policy and was in a position to make a two-pronged attack. The Minister only has control of Aboriginal policy and has no power to mobilise the physical resources of the Northern Territory in the way that his predecessor had. There should be some kind of three-pronged attacked from the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  whose Department must be involved in a finding 60 devastating as that published in the Medical Journal of Australia, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  so far as the Northern Territory is concerned, and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. If those three Ministers work together I think they can produce some new sort of scheme which will show a totality of view of Aboriginal health, education and well being, and allocate to it the resources that should be allocated. Australia can afford to handle the problems of the Aboriginal people and I think it is a matter of will. 
-! have been interested in the way that this matter has been discussed by the Government. It has chosen very often to pick on words like 'cocoa' or 'coffee', 'shot* or killed' instead of the very serious criticisms that have been made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about the desperate levels of wages and the desperate position of the people in Papua and New Guinea. I was at the meeting, and in the context of the meeting I would say the District Commissioner's correction stood, and in the context of the meeting I would say the District Commissioner's correction was accepted. But the real point made by the Leader of the Opposition was this: Here was a young man who was out on bail after having been accused of shooting a native child. I do not know whether he did or did not. The whole gravamen of the statement by the Leader of the Opposition was that no native would be out on bail and attached to our party as a photographer if he had shot a European child. I do not retract that for one minute. 
If honourable members want to see some comments on the nature of justice 1 refer them to a very fine book called 'New Guinea'. It has a series of testimonials. Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia Ltd provided photographs, the Administration provided some and John Guise wrote the preface to it. This book vindicates the equality of law in New Guinea. It says that the courts will impose the same fine on the native as on the European. The only trouble is that the European earns 14 times as much as the native does. That is a vindication of equality. There is also in the book 'The Fashion of Law in New Guinea', a criticism by one of the highest law officers of the country. He points out that one of the problems of New Guinea justice is that it has a long tradition in which the District Commissioner was the magistrate, the District Commissioner was ako the head of the police which made the accusation and the District Commissioner was in charge of the prison in which the offender was goaled, and that too often the distinction between law and administrative convenience was blurred. 
want to pay a compliment to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  He has discovered a very simple formula for settling crises in New Guinea. He finds out what the Department of External Territories has been doing for the last year and does the opposite. That is what he did in the Bougainville matter. There the Administration was seeking to impose a land price on the people, claiming that it was protecting them. When it moved out of the way and the people were allowed to negotiate their own land price, they obtained a bargain that T would estimate is twenty times the value of the one that the Administration was seeking to impose on them. In the same way, in this Mataungan business that has been going on in the Gazelle Peninsula, the Prime Minister said in Canberra on 9th January that the policy of the Commonwealth Government was to hold a referendum on the question as to whether the native council should 

 Imputation- Against a be replaced by the multi-racial -council. That day in the House of Assembly the Pangu Party had moved for a referendum. It was supported by Oscar Tammur, who is the Mataungan leader. The members of the Administration sat in a solid block and voted against it, and the motion was defeated in the House of Assembly. Then they learned what their policy was from the radio, which gave the news from Canberra. 
Much has been said about the Mataungan Association. Everything is said except what the Mataungans said. I do not say that I accept everything that they said as true, but what I want to hear is the refutation of what they said. They employed 10 orators to speak to us. each to orate on a subject. The Prime Minister has talked about extremists. Damien Kereku, who is one of the extremists in prison, is a Christian Brother. Melchior Tomot, until he had a breakdown in health, was studying for the priesthood. I have never heard a man more meticulously honest in answering questions than he is. But they were in prison. The 1 1.000 people before us were accused of nothing. 
The Opposition is mystified at the events surrounding the renewal of the appointment of  Mr Idris  as a member of the staff of the University of Papua and New Guinea and the appointment of  Dr I.  H, Khan as a new member of the staff of the University of Papua and New Guinea. We do not know whether the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  in the explanations he has offered has been correctly reported, but if he has been he has deepened the mystery as far as the Opposition is concerned.  Mr Mahommed  Idris has been on the staff of the University of Papua and New Guinea for 3 years and apparently he wished to leave the Territory on, leave. He could not get clear whether he would have a permit to re-enter the country. He waited for 7 weeks for the permit, which I imagine upset his personal affairs very considerably, and ultimately the permit came. However, the Minister is reported to have made a statement in relation to these 2 appointments, or rather in relation to the permit for  Mr Idris  and  Dr Khan  to enter the Territory, in these terms: 
The immigration policy for Papua and New Guinea was a long standing one based on the need to avoid the sort of problem which has arisen in other developing countries over the admission of alien racial groups. Australia as a trustee has a special obligation to ensure that an independent Papua and New Guinea was not saddled with a problem of Australia's making. 
That statement is a completely unexceptionable one. I do not think that Australia has the right to flood Papua and New Guinea with alien racial groups, but it is astonishing when it is applied to the appointment of two lecturers, or rather to the renewal of the appointment of one lecturer and the appointment of another. 
I have never known of any racial problem anywhere on the face of the earth that was caused by appointments to universities. There are a number of racial problems in emerging countries around the world. For instance, planters for their convenience brought Indian workers into Fiji and Indians now outnumber Fijians. Planters for their convenience brought 46,000 Kanakas into Queensland. Planters for their convenience brought some millions of negroes into the United States of America and into Latin America and for their convenience brought many thousands into the West Indies, so that in consequence the original Indian population has completely disappeared. Then we have the example of the Tamils in Ceylon and the Indians in Natal and up the east coast of Africa. 
The only force bringing in people on this scale has always been the force of planters. If we look at the movement of population within Papua and New Guinea, such as the movement of the Sepiks to Gazelle, which has caused some resentment, we see that the movement has always been for the convenience of the planters. If the Minister has some reference to history which shows that complications can be created for a country by migration problems, we would agree with him. What baffles us is his application of this idea to the appointment of two lecturers. Surely it is not seriously thought that the University of Papua and New Guinea proposes to bring in thousands of Indian lecturers. Two men are involved and we cannot see the application of an immigration policy to their appointment. 
The second explanation that the Minister has given since  Mr Idris  has had his permit to reside in Papua and New Guinea extended for 1 year and since  Dr Khan  has been admitted is that this is normal procedure. If this is the normal procedure of the Department of External Territories, the normal procedure of the Department of External Territories seems to me to need speeding up. It is distressing that a man, who is already resident in New Guinea and who is, from al] our information, a highly respected resident of New Guinea, should have to wait for 7 weeks to know whether he can come back into the Territory if he leaves.  Dr Khan  applied on 17th December and apparently was given his permit on 16th March - give a day one way or the other. This is a period of 4 months. A delay of this nature can be extremely damaging to a man. I do not know what effect it had on  Dr Khan's  salary, since he could not be regarded as a member of the Staff of the University of Papua and New Guinea if he had no permit to enter the Territory and since he had resigned from his post in India. But this seems an extremely insensitive way to deal with the matter. Then to issue a statement that a immigration policy applied to the man. as if he were a menace who would swamp the country by his own presence, seems a rather tactless handling of the whole situation by the Government. 
These appointments are made on the recommendation of an academic board within the University - that is, the Council of the University. The Commonwealth Government and the Administration of Papua and New Guinea have been at some pains to make the Council of the University both thoroughly representative and thoroughly responsible, lt has made appointments after examining applications that it has received from all round the world. But the aspect of this matter that may be personally damaging to a man is that previous instances of refusals of permits to enter the Territory, such as in the cases of Gluckman and Worsley, have been stared straight out to be security questions. So there is now an implication that any man who is refused permission to enter has some grave security objection against him. 
This would be quite unintelligible in the case of  Mr Idris.  He had already been in the Territory for 3 years. If there had been any security objection to him, presumably his entry permit would not have been renewed at all. But it has been renewed for 1 year, and this leaves his career and the University, which has reappointed him for 3 years, in a state of some confusion. There cannot be any security objection to the man for him to be reappointed. No satisfactory explanation is given for his having been reappointed for only 1 year, except presumably that he would swamp the Territory if he were there for 3 years though he would not do so if he were there for 1 year. 
The other case of  Dr Khan  has never been satisfactorily explained. He waited 4 months for approval to enter the Territory. 
I do not know whether it takes all that long to check up on a man. The United States of America had no objection to him. He was in the United States over a period of time in connection with peace corps work. There is no explanation as to why, in view of the positions he had held in the United States, such a long time was taken in checking up on him - if it was a security check that was being taken. No explanation has ever been offered. 
As for the two explanations offered by the Minister, the one relating to procedure is inexplicable because the procedures were so slow. It took 7 weeks in the case of  Mr Idris  and 16 weeks in the case of  Dr Khan.  The other explanation related to immigration. The Opposition believes that the University of Papua and New Guinea, the Administration and the Australian public are owed a better explanation than the one that has been offered. According to the Press, the Administration in Papua and New Guinea had no objection to either of the men, since they had the qualifications sought by the University, and that the Administrator supported the applications. I do not know whether this is true but if it is true it seems quite extraordinary that the Administrator is not permitted to make a decision on so small a matter and that it should have to be referred to Canberra. If the Administrator could not give permission for the University to renew one appointment and to make another then the level of governmental power which he exercises must be very low indeed. 
We of the Opposition are disturbed at the attitude that appears to have been shown in this matter; we are disturbed at the damage that has taken place to the reputations of these two men; we are disturbed at the unintelligibility of renewing  Mr Idris's  permit for 1 year only when the University has reappointed him for 3 years; and we are disturbed about the use of expressions such as 'immigration policy' and 'it is an obligation on Australia, as the trustee, not to saddle Papua and New Guinea with problems of Australia's making'. Surely the cases of  Dr Khan  and  Mr Idris  cannot be regarded as saddling the Territory with problems of Australia's making. Perhaps the Minister has been unjustly dealt with in Press comments and perhaps those were not his explanations at all but we of the 
Opposition believe that Papua and New Guinea, the University of Papua and New Guinea, this House and Australia are owed better explanations. 
I ask the Minister for 
External Territories: Does he intend to accept the resolution of the House of Assembly of Papua and New Guinea asking that the Administrator's Executive Council be the authority that grants permits to people to enter Papua and New Guinea? Also, is it true that  Mr Percy  Chatterton said that the Australian Government has allowed a significant number of Australian criminals to enter the Territory? 
 I wish to move an amendment to the first paragraph of the Minister's resolution. I move: 
That the following words be added at the end of paragraph (I): 'and to report to the Parliament on such matters as are referred to it by either House of the Parliament.' 
The first paragraph would then read: 
That a Joint Committee be appointed to consider foreign affairs generally and to report to the Minister for External Affairs upon such matters as are referred to it by the Minister and to report to the Parliament on such matters as are referred to it by either House of the Parliament. 
I do not think one can say that the adoption of this amendment would mean that the Committee would take over the control of foreign policy. It would mean that apart from the things which interest the Minister and which are referred to the Committee, there might be things that interest either House of Parliament to be referred to it. This is a Joint Parliamentary Committee. It is not just a ministerial serving committee. It is supposed to serve the Parliament. There may be matters which interest the Parliament. If I look back over 70 years of Federation I can see that in all issues where Australia has gone to war it would be true to say that the Parliament was ill informed at the time. I would also say that Vietnam is no exception to this. There we have seen the value of a parliamentary committee in the United States of America going back over some of the statements that were accepted as true, such as the story of the supposed attack on United States destroyers in Vietnamese waters. The testimony before the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee is that such a thing never took place. 
The former Prime Minister, with complete sincerity, made a statement about the matter in the House, but his sources of information were not correct. The Opposition believes that this should be a parliamentary committee. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  is going to move an amendment concerning secrecy so I shall not discuss that point except to say that we are not proposing that every session of the Committee be in public but that provision should be made for public sessions unless there is a reason for going into secrecy. The right of the Parliament to be interested in foreign affairs and not merely in the subjects which the Minister refers to it seems to me to be a very important safeguard in an increasingly complicated world. There may be things which people in the Parliament feel are possibly dangerously developing situations, where that may not be the Minister's view and he may be wanting to refer something else to them. 
We believe that if this is a Joint Parliamentary Committee it should have some responsibility to Parliament as well as to the Minister and therefore be directed by Parliament to investigate certain aspects of external affairs and to report to Parliament. This does not conflict with any obligation it may have towards the Minister. It would give a genuineness to its name - the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs - so that either House could refer to it some subject matter of external affairs in which it is interested. 
The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  when I interjected during his speech and said (hat the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  rose and was told he could not speak, gave me an 'Oh'. Let us have a look at the record in Hansard, at page 884. This is where the  Speaker  appealed to the Leader of the Opposition. He said: 
Indeed, I think that the Leader of the Opposition ought to use his influence as a man of Parliament and whatever influence he may have in relation to the membership- 
He was referring to the membership of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and he went on to make other statements. The Hansard record then reads:  (Mr Whitlam  rising in his place.) 
I desire to ask the Minister for External Territories whether it is true, as alleged in one of the morning newspapers, that  Dr I.  H. Khan has not yet received his visa to go into Papua and New Guinea to take a position on the staff of the university there. 
1 ask the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs whether any steps are being taken by the Commonwealth to ascertain whether or not the malnutrition, protein starvation and retarded growth among Aboriginal children, revealed by research last year in certain government settlements in Queensland, exists anywhere else in other parts of Queensland or anywhere else in the Commonwealth. 
by leave - The Opposition welcomes the statement that has just been made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and supports the idea of the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education. We note the appointment of Professor Partridge as  Chairman.  Professor Partridge is not an educationalist. This is not necessarily a disadvantage. An educationalist might attempt to steer too emphatically in the direction of his own educational specialities and interests. There is however a probability that because the  Chairman  conies from a university - and after all universities have facilities for research into their own problems - this may lead to pre-school, primary, secondary, technical and agricultural education not receiving the optimum attention. However, I think the personality of Professor Partridge guarantees that the approach will be a broad and generous one. 
Although I realise that the $80,000 is not the sum total of the Commonwealth's activities in educational research, we should still recognise that the $80,000 being spent in this direction this year is not a great deal for educational research, nor will it support a great range of research projects. I should have thought that such a sum could be spent on pre-school education alone, on selected aspects of primary education alone or on secondary education alone. In noting the special research that has been conducted into the teaching of science in the first 4 years of secondary school, it is noteworthy that the great weakness in the Australian teaching result revealed in a comparison around the world is in the teaching of mathematics. It is to be hoped that special efforts will be made to do research into what means can be adopted to bring Australian mathematics teaching standards up to the level to those in the most advanced countries. For the rest, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his statement. 
The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  when denouncing the Labor Party's proposal concerning the Foreign Affairs Committee said that the Parliament could not ever have public sessions of the Foreign Affairs Committee because no-one giving evidence before it in public would give away any information. I could not imagine a clearer guideline for his own statement on foreign affairs in this House than that he spent his time avoiding giving away information. He certainly has not provided any information that would be useful to any enemy of Australia and he has not provided any information that would be useful to this Parliament. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  said one thing that made me want to rise to my feet and cheer wildly. He showed a perception so rare that I would like particularly to commend him for it.  His  statement was to the effect that we should beware of assuming that in Papua and New Guinea the first thing that we ought to do is have economic development and that we should regard political development as secondary. Take warning from Nigeria which had magnificent economic resources and a level of political relationships and political development which caused those economic resources to be used to finance one of the bloodiest civil wars in history which lasted for almost the longest period in history and which involved genocide of the people of Biafra. Of what avail is the development of the economic resources of Nigeria if the Moslem north loathes the Catholic eastern region inhabited by the Ibo and if there is a mutual struggle for supremacy? Political development will determine how the economic resources of Papua and New Guinea shall be used. 
When, with the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  I visited the men whom the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  with his characteristic looseness called 'those extremists' on their prison farm at Keravat - I refer to Melchior To Mot, Damien Keruku and Daniel Rumet - 1 was reminded irresistibly of what Lord Attlee said concerning certain colonial leaders: '1 hear that they are in prison. I expect to meet them at the next Prime Ministers' Conference as Prime Ministers'. If there was anyone whom I thought would be future Prime Ministers or leaders of Papua and New Guinea it was the three men we visited in prison. When we got back to Port Moresby we informed one of the highest officials of the Administration that the Mataungan people had told us that Councillor To Rangis, while wearing his crown badge, had been struck down by a patrol officer who had then fined him. We told the Administration official also that the Mataungan leaders had said that this was the crown striking the crown and they wanted redress. The patrol officer was assuming the right to determine the boundaries between what the natives regarded as their land and the planters regarded as their land. This was pooh-poohed. We were told that we were sympathetic to extremists. 
Now the higher courts of Papua and New Guinea have declared that Councillor To Rangis was denied natural justice.  His  accuser was his judge and, what is more, his accuser struck him down and fined him. One of the officials in Port Moresby said: if we knew that and if it is true, the patrol officer would be dismissed'. But these were elements in the Administration that seem to have been determined to blame the Mataungan leaders when their position was not known. Now  Mr Justice  Minogue, speaking of two of the other men we visited, has said that they were denied counsel; that they were denied witnesses; that certain evidence should have been admitted; that they were denied the right to cross-examine witnesses, and that their trial was a miscarriage of justice and it should be quashed and a new trial held. 
The Leader of the Opposition did not say that the courts of law discriminated against the natives. He said that the law in Papua and New Guinea discriminated against the natives. But the Supreme Court of the Territory has said in effect that the courts of law discriminated against the men whom we saw because of their miscarriages of justice and denials of natural justice. I do not want to say anything more on that, but the significance of what the honourable member for Casey said is very important. I say to the Government: Get a defensible, intelligent and justified political relationship with the Mataungan leaders and stop lying about them. Or, if what you are saying is not a lie, find out the truth about them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I remind the honourable member for Fremantle that the word he has used is unparliamentary. 
Very well, I withdraw the expression. These men's case has never been refuted. The Mataungan position was simply that the Tolai people handed over to the Gazelle Council, when it was a native council, the management of their economic resources because under the laws only the local councils could borrow from the banks. Therefore when expatriates came onto the Council and it was made multiracial it automatically involved management of their economic resources by Europeans, including Europeans who had always been opposed to their cocoa projects which upset them. New European members of the Council had actually spoken against these projects. It was the fear that the change in structure of the council was a subterfuge for taking over their economic resources. The loss of native land has been a striking feature of the Gazelle Peninsula. The Mataungans were misrepresented as political propaganda against the Leader of the Opposition but this campaign has seriously misrepresented the position in the Gazelle, and it is very important that in the relationship between our two countries nothing should be misrepresented. If the Government does not believe in their case, for heaven's sake state what it is and do not misrepresent it when you are trying to refute it. 
The Minister or External Affairs had hopes, I infer from his statement, for a continued British presence east of Suez. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had no hope, as far as I could infer from his earlier statement, for a continued British presence east of Suez. I think we should look at the likelihood of a British presence east of Suez, not in terms of what we wish but in terms of the fundamental purposes of the United Kingdom. In the past Britain occupied positions in the Persian Gulf, Malaya and Singapore to screen the Indian Empire. British authority extended all the way from the coast of Palestine to Malaya. This was the reason for the British positions east of Suez. The defence of the Indian Empire was the rationale of policy. The other places were the outposts. There is no longer an Indian Empire. This fact affects British policy in 2 ways. It obviously takes away a case for maintaining large forces east of Suez. Secondly, since Britain has no power base and no 'home' presence in Asia, as she had when she had 3 million loyal Indian troops under her command in the Indian Empire, British intervention in Asia is likely to be limited at most to minor actions in peninsulas, never to an endless and undefinable commitment on the broad mainland of Asia. If we look back at British intervention in Korea and Malaysia, it will be noted that the British forces with their allies were in a position to establish a complete defensive line of force right across the peninsula and to screen both ends of the line with naval forces. There was not a limitless commitment. If you invade the general mainland of Asia you undertake a limitless military commitment and you cannot prevent the forces opposed to you from being augmented in power. The Americans have found very great difficulty in preventing the reinforcement of the armed forces with which they are confronted in Vietnam. 

 Sir Robert Thompson has been extensively quoted by Government speakers and 1 would like to draw attention to an extremely wise statement of his. He said: 
One fact of life emerges. The less the justification, the quicker the successful action must be. There is no doubt that if victory in Vietnam had been achieved by 1963,  there  would have been resounding applause all round, and even if achieved in 1966, after the commitment of the United States forces and the bombing of the North, little harm would have been done and most criticism would have been stilled. The longer the period and the larger the scale of the involvement are likely to be, the better must be the cause if damage to the grand strategy is to be avoided. This all leads to the awkward conclusion that it is safer to back a quick winner who may be wrong than a slow loser who may be right. 
The Soviet Union is extremely conscious of this. That country made a quick and devastating intervention in Czechoslovakia, and the world has very rapidly forgotten. 
The United States has a protracted war in Vietnam and as it drags on more and more people in Europe and elsewhere are being alienated from her. 
The other factor, in the British foreign policy stand, is the new strategic assessment of Europe. Historically, British strategy was always to form an eastern alliance against a central threat. When the threat came from Napoleon's France, alliance with powers east of France took place, that is, with Prussia and Russia. When the threat came from Imperial Germany the answer was an alliance with France in the west and Czarist Russia in the east. With a threat from Hitler's Germany, there was an alliance with the Soviet Union on the eastern side of Germany. Always the central expanding threat has been countered by a British alliance further to the east. Today the' Soviet Union has created a supra-national Communist military force and claims the right to use it to exercise surveillance within Communist countries. The use of East German, Polish and Soviet troops to invade Czechoslovakia in August 1968 demonstrated this. If the Soviet Union can get rid of the Chinese distraction on its eastern border its possibilities of surveillance over Albania, Yugoslavia and Rumania may begin to operate, and then from the forcible consolidation of the Communist bloc the Soviet Union may be well placed to dominate western Europe. 
British policy therefore has changed. There is no ally further east and therefore British policy is to consolidate western Europe economically and militarily as a defensive screen. Troops east of Suez can play no part in countering a Soviet thrust to the Channel ports. British foreign policy is turning exclusively towards Europe. We must accept this as a fact of life. I would like to see 2 things happen in the world. Firstly, I would tike to see some government have the sanity to say that it aims to create a sane world. We suffer from a surfeit of the philosophy of the Nassers and such who say that they want to eliminate Israel or others who want to eliminate the political ideologies in Asia of which they disapprove. Everyone has this idea: Delenda est whomever you do not approve. But very few will stand up and articulate that the fundamental aim of foreign policy is to create a sane world. 
I do not believe only in withdrawal from Vietnam. I think it would be a highly intelligent action for the governments of the world persistently at the United Nations to create an ideological ground swell which demanded a Soviet withdrawal from Poland, East Germany, Czechoslovakia and Hungary, a Western withdrawal from Germany, and a withdrawal from Vietnam. There is a very strong case for everybody getting out of everywhere that troops are stationed among foreign populations because these interventions are almost invariably attempts to control what very largely is not their business to control. To raise this demand persistently would for once put the Soviet bloc on the ideological defensive. I am not going to say that withdrawal would happen within 48 hours. The embarrassments of the Soviet Union in relation to China exist because China has the intelligence to raise ideological issues about her borders and about Soviet domination of subject nationalities which have put the Soviet Union on the ideological defensive. The Soviet is in the position of being a satisfied' imperial power possessing all sorts of territories and controlling peoples over which and whom she really has no claim. China is in the position of being a revolutionary power vis-a-vis the Soviet Union. The Soviet leaders understand this very well. Australia ought not to be satisfied with a. world of occupying troops going on occupying for ever or for years after a war. The issue of withdrawal from all these areas ought to be constantly raised by the Australian Government. 
I would now like to comment on some of the remarks made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  I am not impressed by anyone saying that one must not be an isolationist. Maybe isolationism is an extremely unintelligent policy. I think it may be. But I would be very glad to hear such a policy refuted. I would like to hear the refutation of Fortress Australia. Why do honourable members opposite assume, for instance, that America is likely to be involved in a war in defence of Australia? We have lived for 80 years with the statement that Britain is defending Australia. Australia intervened on Britain's behalf in the Sudan war, the Boer War, the First World War and the Second World War. We intervened in Malaysia probably on her behalf and perhaps our own. and in Korea on behalf of the United Nations. There is no evidence whatever that Britain over that period of time was ever likely to be involved in a war on Australia's behalf. This is not to contend that where Britain was a force for world sanity she should not have been supported. But this business of turning every fact of history into the myth that Britain is defending Australia ends rational discussion. I think it is extremely likely that Australia will be repeatedly involved in wars on behalf of the United States and extremely unlikely that the United States will be involved in war on behalf of Australia. At least that ought to put you in the position in relation to your allies where you do not need to be servile and mendicant. 
I think that the North West Cape strategy needs to be looked at, not hysterically but rationally. The one weapon in relation to which the Western world is most at a disadvantage is the nuclear armed and nuclear powered submarine. These vessels threaten Western cities such as New York, London, San Francisco, Liverpool, Yokohama, Tokyo, Sydney, Melbourne, Madras, Bombay and Calcutta. All of these cities are on the coast. A submarine can stand out to sea a few miles and send an atomic, nuclear or hydrogen rocket into such cities. Such a sudden attack cannot be detected or intercepted. The West, with all its great industrial centres on the sea boards  -  70% of the earth's surface is covered by water - is overwhelmingly at a disadvantage with this weapon - the one weapon that is being controlled from Australia. The theory is that if anybody decides to knock it out by a nuclear attack on Australia the United States will counter with a nuclear atttack on our behalf. 
De Gaulle asked the simple question: 'If a nuclear attack is made on France will the United States on behalf of France make a nuclear attack on the other power - the Soviet Union, shall we say?' His answer was no, because that in turn would provoke a nuclear attack on the United States. He asked the logical question: 'Why should150 million Americans die for France?' I ask the logical question: 'Why should 150 million Americans die for Australia?' In war it would be a very good propagandist action to knock out with nuclear weapons every thing in Australia that relates to American nuclear controls. The attacker would not then have reached the point of no return where he was provoking an uncontrollable war because it is extremely unlikely that the United States would regard this as the casus belli for the exercise of nuclear weapons. I have just put this rationally. Honourable members opposite can shout if they like and go around saying that what 1 say is against the North West Cape base. What we want is a rational explanation and rational discussion of these strategic matters - not this constant attempt at intimidation by saying: 'You must not say this. It is isolationism' or, 'You must not say this. It is Fortress Australia". All of these matters are open to examination and discussion to determine strategic facts, and this is what our foreign policy debates ought to be devoted to. 
I come from as far west as one can go in Australia without actually treading water and about as far from Townsville and the setting of this Marine Institute as it is possible to get within Australia. But I am sure this legislation will be welcomed by all Australians. I do not agree with the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  that it is a very timely action.  Senator Felix  Dittmer has been advocating this for at least a decade. I would hesitate to say that it was his advocacy which produced this, just as 1 would hesitate to say it was the advocacy of the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  which produced it. 1 think there were 2 great threats to the Great Barrier Reef which helped to speed the decision. One was the crown of thorns starfish and the other the activities on the reef permitted by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland. 
The honourable member for Cook said that the Prime Minister has estimated that the cost of the Institute will be $3m. If that is the estimate I think we must all be prepared to spend $9m. In the 25 years I have been associated with the construction of one body that was created by the Commonwealth Government, the Australian National University, I have never found the estimates for the buildings to be much more than one-third of the ultimate cost. If the Institute does cost us $9m it may still be a thoroughly justified expenditure. The legislation creates an Australian Institute of Marine Science in principle. The Bill sets up an interim council to define the scope of the Institute. We have not farmed the sea scientifically. On the west coast of this continent, we know, a 38-foot rise and fall of tide could in gulfs become a great source of hydro-electric power. Apparently we are engaged in destroying or watching the destruction of an ocean wonderland -  the Great Barrier Reef. 
From time immemorial man has been fascinated by the sea, and that in itself would justify an institute of marine science. But the sea is becoming more and more important as a source of food, as a source of climatic knowledge, as a source of fertiliser and, of course, as a tourist attraction. It may also be a source of medical knowledge, since the immunity of certain fish to deadly poisons and to pain may have a significance for mankind. More and more we are coming to appreciate that the preservation of our environment is a factor in public health and mental hygiene, and in the Indian, Southern and. Pacific Oceans, and in the Arafura Sea, Australia has a truly magnificent environment. The Australian Great Barrier Reef, intelligently preserved, will be an immense scientific and economic asset. The Great Barrier Reef is 1,250 miles in length and occupies some 80,000 square miles. It is incomparable. It contains 340 known species of coral. 
Australia is already a byword for the destruction of land species' of unique creatures. lt is to be hoped that, clawing and clutching for money, we do not become also a byword for the destruction of a great natural wonder and that we can preserve fish and crustaceans inhabiting our coastline. The establishment of this Institute at Townsville, or in its vicinity, may be wise. It may provide the scientific information which will produce a change in the outlook of the State Government of Queensland which is not conspicuously enlightened on subjects of conservation; or, at any rate, its Premier goes to some pains to give the impression that he is not. One fears that oil gushes and accidental leakages could destroy sections of the Barrier Reef. 
The Opposition welcomes the Bill. We hope that the Australian Institute of Marine Science will become a centre for oceanographic, marine biology, marine ecology, tidal current and climatic studies second to none in the world. If the scope of the activities of the Institute is wide we must be prepared to make adequate allocations of finance for its activities. Doubtless it will add to world knowledge of the movement of fish, of whales, of plankton - the source of food of sea creatures - and of oceanography. The Institute should recruit from overseas. The objective of the Institute is scientific knowledge, not nationalism. The Institute also is in proximity to Papua and New Guinea, and the fisheries of Papua and New Guinea should benefit from its activities. 
The members of the Interim Council should be empowered to see marine research wherever it is highly advanced, to bring back constructive ideas and to ensure that this Institute stands on the shoulders of the existing body of scientific knowledge. It is to be hoped that the Institute will advertise all over the world, at least the English speaking world, for research scientists. It is also to be hoped that there will be no hesitation in having vessels needed for research built and designed. The Institute will need not only laboratories but also floating laboratories. It is vital that the growth of the Institute to full effectiveness will be at least as fast as the growth of some of the fast growing universities. 
To buttress this Institute we should be prepared also to extend the study of marine biology, marine ecology and oceanography in the Australian universities. The importance of equipment was demonstrated in the discovery by Americans, very speedily, of the guns of HMS 'Endeavour' which had not been discovered by unequipped Australians over generations. It was a triumph of technology. Although the objects discovered were simply of historic interest, the episode pointed clearly to the significance of equipment. Australian education and research for generations have expected to be ill-equipped. The Institute of Marine Science has a work of such significance that its equipment must be first class. The Bill, I am sure, has the unanimous support of the House. 
I am not in a position to decide who is giving the correct version of the undertakings, if any, which were given to the States concerning the legislation on the continental shelf and the mineral resources of the continental shelf. But the fact that the versions are contradictory is what merits censure. Also, what is patently obvious and has been patently obvious for some time is that certain members on the Government side hostile to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  are moving in for the kill in an effort to change the leadership of the Liberal Party and hence the Prime Ministership. In human terms my sympathies are with the Prime Minister, but the atmosphere of intrigue and undermining which has developed on the Government side means that sooner or later this situation must be resolved by the electorate. I believe that the matter of this dispute ought to go to the electorate. When a person as significant as the former Minister for National Development  (Mr Fairbairn)  and other Ministers are in contradiction on a matter which relates to dealings between the Commonwealth and the States I believe the House should be dissolved and that this matter should be referred to the Australian people, and this is why I support the censure. We have seen the attacks on the Prime Minister going on over the last 6 months; in fact, since immediately after the declaration of the election results. The attacks on him have ranged from the ridiculous to the sublime. There were some who contended that he was not the sort of man who ought to lead the Liberal Party because he was not an establishment man. I do not know what an establishment man is. Some suggest that he is one who has the approval of Melbourne finance and others suggest- 
It does not canvass any other matter. 
I am, of course, debating the question of the charges upon which this matter has been based by the honourable member for Farrer. 
Yes. In the course of this discussion on the relationship of the Prime Minister to the States many issues have been canvassed and I want to establish why the Labor Party supports the censure morion in spite of the fact that on this question the Prime Minister's position over the continental shelf is identical with the attitude of the Labor Party which is that it supports the Commonwealth having the power to make the bargains concerning the mineral resources of the continental shelf. 
I want to make perfectly clear where the Labor Party stands on this question of centralisation, which, from the point of view of certain Liberals, is supposed to be the weakness of the Prime Minister. Because he is supposed to have a centralising philosophy, it is charged that this has been the root cause of this breaking faith with the States. I want to make perfectly clear one or two things about our view on the power of the Commonwealth. The Labor Party does not start off with any philosophy of centralisation. We start off perfectly pragmatically in perceiving a fact and the fact is that State legislatures are rigged against the Labor Party. 
Why on earth should we support matters being left in the hands of the States whether they are continental shelves or not when it is known that the States either have upper houses in which, even if we received the overwhelming support of the Australian public, we would have no majority or they have a legislature like the one in Queensland where with  2i  times the vote of the Country Party we are battling to get as many seats. Now, the more matters that are transferred from the State sphere - where we have no chance of majorities because of malapportionment or because of upper houses and no chance of getting through the legislation in which we are interested - to the Commonwealth field the better as far as we are concerned. If the Prime Minister gave undertakings to the States from our point of view he should not have made undertakings to the States. These are national matters and they are matters which should be resolved in this Parliament. I have no mystique about the States. The manner in which the States have handled their mineral resources does not arouse my admiration. Some of them have handled their mineral resources quite disastrously and one of the things underlying this tension which has arisen between the Commonwealth and the States over whatever agreements the Prime Minister did or did not make with the States is that there are many sectors of business both national and international that have made their happy connections with the States. They know how to handle a State government. They know how to produce the kind of disastrous bargains that have been produced by State governments and the transference of these matters to the federal field is, from their point of view, a disaster. 
But we are not in the position to judge whether or not the charges made by "the honourable member for Farrer are correct. We are faced with a complete contradiction in the versions concerning the bargain that was made, but behind all this is a state of tension on the Government side of the House which we believe must go to the Australian people. In any event we believe that now that this matter of the continental shelf and the mineral resources of the Commonwealth has become an issue of controversy within the Government, this issue is worthy of an election. Faced with the charges that have been made by the honourable member for Farrer and endorsed, to some extent anyway, by some of the Premiers, we believe that the whole matter should be resolved by the Australian people. 
It is not a question of joining in any personal hostility to the Prime Minister. It is not a question of our declaring that we know for a certain fact who is putting forward the correct version. It is that we are confronted with a Government which on a very fundamental question - the question of the disposal of Australian mineral resources on the continental shelf - is in a state of argument, not only about what was actually promised to the State Premiers but also about what actually ought to be done with these mineral resources. On this basis I believe that a censure motion is merited against the Government, chiefly because it is a means of putting this vital question to the people. It is an opportunity to focus on the whole question of the disposal of minerals - a subject that has been a sideline in most elections while, disastrously, the ownership of the mineral resources of this country is passing, at very poor bargains, into the hands sometimes of outside interests. We realise, of course, that the dispute over the handling of the whole of the continental shelf does relate to some magnificent resources in the Barrier Reef. 
We have had the Prime Minister charged by members of his own side with misrepresentation of the situation, with having permitted the honourable member for Farrer to go before the State Premiers to make promises on behalf of the Commonwealth Government to them and with having then repudiated those promises. In the whole of this question of credibility we are confronted with a number of disturbing features. I do not want to canvass the FI 1 1 aircraft decision, but we are being told that the Prime Minister is presented with the problems of a previous government. The Liberal Party is discarding its own past in this matter. The Prime Minister was a member of the previous Government. If members of the Government deny their responsibility in this particular matter it is quite probable that we are not going to be able to accept their credibility and integrity on the matter that is before us now - the question of the promises that have been made to the State Premiers. For a long time we have been getting confusion and contradictory statements in Government statements on all these matters. It is time that these matters were resolved. 
My distinguished friend, the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who is shaking his head at me, is in exactly the same position as I am with respect to the conversations that passed between the honourable member for Farrer and the State Premiers. Neither of us was there. We are faced with these contradictory versions. We on the Opposition side, have been presented with the categorical charges of the former Minister for National Development and the reply of the Prime Minister, and bearing in mind how vitally important is the whole subject matter of this controversy over the mineral resources of the continental shelf, believe it is time that these matters were resolved to the satisfaction of the Australian people. When there is a dispute between ex-Ministers and Ministers on vital questions of promises it is time that this was put to the Australian people. There is only one way that this can be put to the Australian people and that is by the defeat of the Government. Whether people who made charges against the Prime Minister are prepared to vote against him is entirely their business. They may regard what he has said as being not accurate but not meriting a censure motion. I take it that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  meant exactly that in the course of his speech. However, if an honourable member endorses the charges of the honourable member for Farrer and then votes that the Government should continue in office after having broken its promises to the States, he is in a very peculiar position. He may consider himself in a peculiar position if he overturns the Government. It is also a peculiar position to vote to sustain a government which he believes breaks its promises in vital negotiations with the States. That is a matter for him to resolve. We on this side of the House are confronted with a situation of specific charges having been made and not satisfactorily answered. In those circumstances these matters should be referred to the Australian people. That is why we are voting for this censure motion. 
The Minister for External Affairs will recall that in the fortnight before President Nixon sent United Slates troops into Cambodia there was an outbreak of Khmer violence against Vietnamese who were residents of Cambodia, even to the point of genocide, with bodies thrown in the river and so on. Were any representations made by either the Djakarta conference powers or the Australian Government to the Government of Vietnam to desist from these actions? If so. what underlies the threat of the South Vietnamese Government to expel Cambodians if action by the Cambodian Government against Vietnamese continues? 
The Minister nods. That is right. But with the interpretation placed on these things owing to taut nerves, and sometimes elaborated upon by expatriate members of the Parliament or expatriates in the community, does have an effect on the indigenes. With the greatest respect to the Minister 1 would say that he has made perfectly clear in a number of utterances that he does not approve of the Pangu Party. 1 do not think we should approve or disapprove of any political parties in Papua-New Guinea. It is a matter for them to evolve their own political parties. I think it was a pity that when the select committee visited Australia it did not sit with the Government members' territories committee or with the Opposition members' territories committee. 1 want to say one thing quite clearly: We do not agree with the Government that it is real to say to the people of Papua and New Guinea that independence will come when they ask for it. The modern world just is not like that. Nor is it right to say that in a relationship between Australia and Papua and New Guinea the only ones who will make any decisions will be the people at the Papua and New Guinea end. I do not want to hurry them or stampede them. We strongly favour continuing a treaty for 15  years after independence: to continue providing economic, financial and technical ass stance to them. There is no question of applying pressure or stampeding them. As far as the Labor Party is concerned, it is not a matter of the only factor being what the House of Assembly decides and if somebody can organise the highlands bloc efficiently never to ask for it, independence never comes or does not come for 50 or 60 years. That is nol the only factor in independence. There must also be  intelligent  discussions. But the idea that they can stay immovable wilh a complete veto on Australian thinking is an unwise attitude to encourage there because the modern world is nol like that. 
We have announced a target date for self-government. Selfgovernment exists the moment we take the veto off the legislation of the House of Assembly. There will be no  physical  difference in appearance, procedures or anything else. Then in 1976, after 4 years of discussion, assuming the Labor Party had power to decide these things, you would commence your discussion about independence, lt is not a matter of pushing them off the cliff but at that time the discussions on the subject of independence might take place. They may take as long to evolve their constitution as Australia did to evolve its constitution, and we took from 1891 to 1901 - 10 years. But at some stage - we believe in 1976 - they have to start giving their minds to the question of full independence. I think an earlier part of  Dr G  unifier's statement is more significant than the part that has been the subject of most comment. He spoke about the situation after  Sir Hugh  Foot went through the Territory and said: 
There was widespread fear of the United Nations and the United States  of  America because of its part in proposing the  Bunker  plan. There was a fear that Australia would be pushed and would then walk out, taking her money and know-hew with her. It is a great evil that this fear still exists amongst much of  the  population today and it is a sad commentary on the Australian administration and the Australian Government that they have not made every effort to repudiate completely such beliefs. 1 found that in Papua and New Guinea the United Nations was something you had to talk about darkly with bated breath. Ever since the Foot mission the United Nations has been depicted by expatriates to the indigenous community as something sinister. What is significant is nol that the United Nations as an assembly passes resolutions which are overwhelmingly in favour of independence: What is significant is that something like 100 governments of the world, having sat down and considered Papua and New Guinea, have instructed their delegates to urge the independence of Papua and New Guinea. It is not true that Australia can simply ignore the opinions of the world in this way and it is not wise to encourage the indigenous people to believe that we can. 
One or two points need to be made about our policies and about the select committee. The tragedy of the select committee was that it got to Fiji, a country which is on the point of independence, when nearly all the crucial members of the Fijian Parliament had gone to London. It is rather a pity that their presence in Fiji coincided with a diminished ability to speak to their Fijian opposite numbers. After all, Fiji has moved along the road to independence and will become independent in October. We should be encouraging the people of Papua and New Guinea to think of certain specific problems. We should be encouraging them to think of their relationship with the Solomons. The British have given us Cocos Island and Christmas Island. In our attitude to the relationship of Papua and New Guinea with the Solomons we completely exclude the idea that Buka and Bougainville might go back to the Solomons. We are bound by a treaty between Lord Granville and Bismarck in 1884 - apparently a sheer accident of colonial history - which put a line through the Solomons. 1 do not think we should bc so bound. It is not right to consider, either in extension or in diminution, that there should be no change in the boundaries of New Guinea. 
In the 1 880s the Government of Queensland look islands within a few hundred yards of the coast of Papua and New Guinea. I wish the House would understand what underlies the statement of a man like Ebia Olewale when he says: 'Papuans are Australian citizens. Why are we not entitled to social services, unemployment benefits  and so on?' We have confused the indigenous people. Papuans are not Australian citizens. There are no Australian citizens under the Australian Constitution. The Australian Constitution acknowledges a person only as the subject of the Queen - a British subject. In our modern terminology we choose to call these 'Australian citizens'. When Papuans were called British subjects it was not assumed that the British subjects of Papua had rights in Australia any more than the British subjects of India but we changed the terminology for the sake of international window dressing and we called them 'Australian citizens'. They have no rights of residence in Australia. 
In the area which Ebia Olewale represents there are families, some living in Australia, on those islands which Queensland outrageously took in the 1880s within 200 or 300 yards of the Papuan coast and the mainland people speak the same language. The Australian citizens on the islands receive child endowment and other social service benefits as residents of Australia. They say that they receive those benefits because they are Australian citizens. The people opposite, who may be represented by Ebia Olewale, cannot understand why they do not get those benefits when they also are called Australian citizens. Who is confusing the indigenous people? It is we who are confusing them with impossible concepts of such creatures as Australian citizens who do not even have the right of residence in Australia. This is impossible terminology and we make it extremely difficult for them to think accurately of their problems. This is why a thoroughly intelligent man like Ebia Olewale is campaigning for social services, child endowment and what not for the people of Papua and New Guinea. 
I believe that the unwarranted pushing of Queenland's borders into Papua's territorial waters - to within 200 yards of the Papuan coast - is something that must be revised. In this respect the territories of Papua and New Guinea may well be expanded. As far as Buka and Bougainville are concerned, they became the German Solomons and then part of Papua and New Guinea. Buka and Bougainville are being pushed towards complete secession -which is what they would probably vote for, union of the British Solomons which might be an intelligent settlement, or federation. 
Having had an experience of the House of Assembly being used as an instrument to deprive them of their land there is a sentiment among them that they would not mind having provincial or State Governments with power over land just as Australian State Governments have, so that never again would Port Moresby authorise seizures of their land. In that respect they are very Australian. 
Honourable members opposite have advocated these decentralisations of power. We have this inability of the central government to nationalise, and these definitions of the relationships between the central Government and the States to protect property which is the conviction now of the people of Bougainville. Yet we stand deploring their very accurate imitation of fundamental attitudes in the Australian body politic. The honourable member has twitted the Opposition with not realising what influence it has. I suppose investors are more attracted to a Papua and New Guinea controlled by Australia than they are to one not controlled by Australia. The honourable member knows, if he has any sense as an investor, that nobody with the alternatives of investing in Papua and New Guinea or investing in Australia would invest in Papua and New Guinea except in very rare circumstances. Certainly that is the position with the construction of hotels, if one has $4m to construct a hotel. Perth recently was regarded as not a good enough risk for the Chevron group, so I am not at all surprised if somebody has decided, after 2 good modern hotels have been built in Porth Moresby, that the Territory is not sufficiently attractive. The decision that investors should wait until they see what independence means is very intelligent on their part. 
It is quite obvious that some of the Ministerial Members read statements prepared for them by expatriates. I think it is a tragedy that the people of Papua and New Guinea are being further confused by these statements. One statement that has undue influence was recently made by the Ministerial Member for Labour. After the Leader of the Opposition's criticisms of the wage levels in Papua and New Guinea, he said that New Guinea cannot afford a higher level of wages. New Guinea is not paying anybody any wages. Burns Philp and Co. Ltd, W. R. Carpenter and Co. Ltd, Conzinc Riotinto of Aust. Ltd and the planters are. The wages that they can afford is a matter for arbitration and there should be an arbitration system to determine the level of wages. It is just another form of confusing the people, like an Australian citizen does when he says that New Guinea, whoever that is, in the future cannot afford to pay wages. The question is whether the expatriate employers or any of the employers can afford to pay wages. It is a tragedy of influences and terminology which the indigenous members do not yet understand being used as instruments to entrench vested interests in the Territory. I think this is why there is some value in  Dr Gunther's  statement. It should at least remind us all to keep undue influence, especially influence in the direction of confusion, out of the affairs of Papua and New Guinea. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This legislation enables Monash University and the University of Tasmania to complete 2 halls of residence, which were not the subject of Commonwealth matching grants in the last triennium because, in the words of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  'unavoidable delays in planning meant that the amount of Slate funds expended on these projects up to 31st December 1969 was insufficient to attract the full Commonwealth grant'. The Opposition naturally supports the grant of $454,930 for Roberts Hall at Monash and $47,241 for the Women's Hall of Residence within the University of Tasmania. The development of universities with huge enrolments raises the question of whether the halls of residence, which are purely dormitories, might not be better if. like Latrobe, a collegiate form of university were created and the halls of residence became colleges. 
The colleges of Oxford and Cambridge are largely autonomous. They elect officers, admit undergraduates, administer endowments, and make rules, although they do not determine matriculation standards which are determined by the university as a whole. The university in that sense is a federal corporation including in its government college authorities - the Vice Chancellor enjoys a 3-year term and is always a college head - and in its membership college students. The colleges appoint their own tutors and this does lead to a general excelence of teaching and a close relationship with the students. The university appoints professors, demonstrators and readers and their lectures are open to all students who have the close inspiration of the college tutor and the general contact with the university teachers. There is therefore collegiate teaching and intercollegiate teaching. The colleges are still dominant. I am speaking of Oxford and Cambridge. 
I believe that the pressure of numbers will force the universities of this country to become more and more selecstive, to emphasise excellence and to adopt a collegiate form to counter soullessness. These halls of residence will be inadequate in nature. An American educationalist looking at the collegiate organisation or organism had this to say: 
The Oxford colleges . . . are . . . interested in ability. Yet the life of the college is so organised that brain power cannot be said to be its besetting passion. . . . 
And these men arc distinguished by a certain sanity, which, to be sure, may in part bc the product of social and political experience, but is assuredly in part due to the type of education that the English receive in school and college. We talk in America endlessly of educational technique; there Ls, I grant, something in it. But Oxford and Cambridge establish a personal relationship between the undergraduate and his tutor that is, despite possible personal limitations, the most effective pedagogical relationship in the world. 
I believe that the halls of residence can become a way towards this personal relationship between an udergraduate and his teachers, and while welcoming this measure I believe it is time that the Commonwealth lost its preoccupation with the bricks and moi lar of the physical buildings, and began to look at the halls of residence as educational instruments to be perfected, and not as dormitories to be erected. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
This measure puts the assistance to teachers colleges on a triennium basis as is assistance to universities. By all the standards of the past it makes the assistance to teachers colleges extremely generous. This enables the States to plan. It is a significant measure advancing teacher education. The only criticism J make is that the Commonwealth intervention in this field of tertiary education would have transformed education if it had been carried through a decade or more ago when I recollect it being urged by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and others. It is curious how the honourable member for Wills used to be regarded as something of a nuisance when he raised these subjects and his nuisance interventions have now become orthodoxy, which is very often the case, of course, in politics. 
The Commonwealth action in this field is so important that the Commonwealth should take action to press the States to ensure that these colleges issue teachers' certificates which, like university degrees, are nationally recognised. These certificates should relate to a form of teacher educa tion which ensures that their professional capacity is remedial for children who are in need of remedial teaching - a weakness of the Australian educational system. The Commonwealth should use its influence to see that teacher education is truly professional. The characteristic of a profession is that the professional man may diagnose the condition of his client or the condition of his patient and prescribe the course of action that is needed. He has the training and the standing which give him the independence to do this. For a teacher such a training is more than a training to teach a curriculum. The corollary of a professional status is the nationally recognised qualification to which I referred. This assistance to education is crucial because the teaching profession's quality determines the quality of the rest of education. 
The Commonwealth might further assist the States to ensure not only that teacher training lakes place in adequate colleges hut that the course of training should be of sufficient duration for the teacher to know the significance of his work. In other words, he must arrive at some philosophy of education. This is not a luxury - it is essential. The education of the teacher must be broad, even if the teacher specialises. The buildings should have facilities to enable the teacher to be trained in the croation and use of teaching aids. The buildings should enable the teachers to be trained in library techniques, and they should have the facilities to provide for training in diagnostic tests and diagnostic technique so that the teacher can really assist his students. Our teachers colleges need also to be broadened to train teachers to deal with migrant children. These colleges should have language laboratories for this purpose. The Commonwealth should strongly encourage the training of teachers for Aboriginals and for Papua and New Guinea. Our schools are not adequately equipped to draw out the abilities of youth because the community is largely indifferent to them. 
The Government, in endeavouring to ensure that teacher training moves to a new plane, is taking a vital step. If it moves further to use its good offices with the States to get all 7 governments to make a true profession out of teaching, to ensure higher national standards and to link the teachers colleges with university education faculties, it will be carrying teacher education forward to its next phase. 
1 ask the Minis:er for External Territories: Did the Administration of Papua and New Guinea finance the fares, travel and accommodation of an organisation known as Warmaram to play an active part in conciliation among Tolai people? Did it include in its objectives the intention "to reduce an J destroy Kaputin's standing' with the Tolai people? Was the express on "to reduce and destroy Kaputin's standing' correctly attributed to the Administrator in a letter of the Director of Infomation and Extension Services,  Mr L.  R. Newey? If so,' why does the Government finance th? reduction of  Mr Kaputin's  standing among Tolai people and is this an objective of the Administrator? 
The Opposition welcomes the statement that has been made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  concerning academic salaries.  Mr Justice  Eggleston made his fundamental survey for this report in 1964 and what he is doing now, apart from making suggestions about colleges of advanced education and one or two other matters, is updating the actual salary level. The new principle involved is sst out on pages 11 and 12 of his report and I would like to refer briefly to that section.  Mr Justice  Eggleston said: 
If time nad not been an important factor in the situation I would have preferred to obtain appropriate insurances from the governments of the Slates and of the Commonwealth that increases awarded by national wage decisions would be automatically applied and provided for. To do so would, however, have meant a considerable delay in the presentation of this report, which 1 was assured was urgently desired. I have therefore concluded that my best course is to recommend salary levels which can be adopted without delay, on the assumptions I have mentioned and, if those assumptions prove to be unfounded, to submit a further report at a later date recommending the increased amount which I would think proper to be added to the levels now recommended, to compensate for the absence of such adjustments. I should add, also, that in reaching this conclusion 1 am fortified by the submission of the Government of New South Wales, which is by far the greatest employer oi academic staff in Australia, in which it has said: 
As the academic staff of universities represents one of the few major groups to whom adjustments do not apply automatically, it is considered that this situation should not be continued and that in future the principles of national wage case increases should apply throughout the whole range of academic salaries. 
This is quite clearly the main consideration which has activitated  Mr Justice  Eggleston in his decision. I do not think there are any reasons to assume that the- State governments will not co-operate now that the Commonwealth Government has made so clear its intention to follow the procedures in this respect recommended by  Mr Justice  Eggleston. There is, however, one other problem and this is referred to in the report at page 16 where  Mr Justice  Eggleston says: 
Reference was made in the State submissions to the fact that any determination of academic salaries as a result of this report would have repercussive effects on the salaries paid to teachers in colleges of advanced education, as a consequence of the recommendations made by my colleague  Mr Justice  Sweeney. This point was made as part of a wider submission drawing attention to the grave financial burdens which the Stales have to bear. Insofar as any of my recommendations may have the consequence of raising the salaries of other persons who have similar claims based on comparative wage or salary justice, I cannot feel that this is a factor which should cause me to hold my hand. As 1 understand it, the relationship between university salaries and those of the colleges has been accepted by the Governments who raise this point, and any repercussive effects in this field will be the consequence of that acceptance. The point made would only be valid if I were templed to be generous on the basis that only a small class of salary earners was involved. Apart from the fact that university teachers themselves are by no means an insignificant class, 1 trust that no-one would suspect me of irresponsible generosity of this kind. 
I think that the decision of the Government to accept the automatic adjustments to academic salaries in universities following national wage case decisions after each periodic review is a wise and just decision. I think it will have an important effect in the universities. Perhaps less time and energy will be spent on the question of salaries if it is known that the adjustments are automatic and the Government, having accepted this principle themselves, does make things simpler for university councils and finance committees in the preparation of submissions to the Government concerning their expenditure over the trienniums This is a step in the direction of simplification. I would only add that 1 hope we find some means of arresting the process of inflation so that the constant upward automatic adjustments will not be necessary. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister neither affirms nor denies the authenticity of what was declared to be an Administration circular which in effect says that the Warmaram group, while an instrument of reconciliation, has an ulterior motive to reduce and destroy the influence of a Mataungan leader, John Kaputin. The Minister knows the Opposition did not come down with the last shower. He knows that we must conclude that if he could deny it he would and that the document is authentic. So far the Opposition has done nothing on this matter but to ask questions and patiently await his reply. The Minister has not been attacked. He has been asked for the facts and the truth. He will neither affirm nor deny the truth of certain revelations of the attitude of the Administration to the Mataungans, and specifically to a Mataungan leader, John Kaputin. The Minister's statement is a depressing abdication of his obligation to face how Australia's relationship with the Tolai people is being conducted. The Minister is satisfied because the House of Assembly, loyal to the Administration even in its blunders, has voted to exculpate the Administrator from his own statements, at any rate from his own statements as inadvertently revealed by  Mr Newby,  Director of Information and Extension services. The Minister has avoided altogether the devastating passage in the memorandum of  Mr Newby  to the Manager of Rabaul radio station on 11th May. The passage read: lt was mentioned (hat Warmaram could be regarded as a scheme devised by Robin Kumaina to improve h:s position if he should wish to stand for the next House of Assembly elections in 1972. Thi' Administrator said this was a risk to be taken. He said a major concern of the Warmaram group was to reduce ami destroy Kaputin's standing. 
If the Warmaram group is a group of intelligent conscientious people trying to bring back unity to the Tolai people - and 1 believe that to have been the intention of ils founders- ils work has been grievously undermined by the publication of thai passage in the document. If the work is a work of reconciliation the Administrator should never have formed the intention of using it for the purpose of reducing and destroying Kaputin's standing. The Administrator's intention should have been to let reconciliation find its own path. That is the real tragedy. In default of straight motives of reconciliation it can be argued that the Administrator should never have said openly that his aim was to destroy Kaputin's influence: that having said it it should never have been put to paper; that having been put to paper part of it should never have been given in the way it was to the Manager of Radio Rabaul; that having been given around it should not have been leaked to a news service: that having been leaked to a news service it should not have been published. 
I do not make those secondary criticisms. If the administration of Papua and New Guinea is a democratic administration its intentions should be known. It is a government, not a structure of clever deceit. If the intention of the Administrator is to destroy and reduce John Kaputin's influence as a Mataungan leader then let that fact be published to the world. My criticism is the primary one. If the Administration was conveying to the people of Papua and New Guinea that the Warmaram group was engaged in a vital mission of reconciliation then let its task of reconciliation proceed without being made to serve as camouflage for any other intention. There is a tendency to suggest that what was afoot was Warmaram versus the Mataungans. Oscar Tammur. MHA and representative of the Tolai people in the House of Assembly, has pointed out that 2 of the members of the Warmaram group were Mataungans. A mortal blow has been struck at their standing if it appears that they were not engaged in reconciliation but in an intrigue against another Mataungan leader, lt is pretty plain that thai was not their intention. 
 It is also inescapable that if the Administrator knew that the major concern of the Warmaram group was to reduce and destroy Kaputin's standing, the Warmaram group was being manipulated for purposes other than those some of its members thought it had. The Warmaram group could have such an intention if it chose, but it should not then have had administrative backing. The material revealing the motive to reduce and destroy Kaputin's standing was put in the hands of somebody, and apparently it was also conveyed to Radio Rabaul, to explain that the Warmaram group was to bc given full radio publicity while radio publicity would be denied to the Mataungans. If the Mataungans objected it was to be explained that the Mataungans were political and not entitled to radio time, whereas the Warmaram group was not political and was entitled to radio time. lt appears to me that the comment upon this of  Mr Percy  Chatterton, MHA, during the House of Assembly debate is valid. He said, inter alia: 
But the really damning part of this paragraph as I see it is the statement that a major concern of the Warmaram Group was to reduce and destroy Kaputin's standing. Now there might be some people who think that this -was a worthy objective. This is a matter of opinion. But there can be no doubt at alt that it is a political objective. 
The indigenous civil servants condemned the use of the civil servants in the Warmaram group for a political objective. A special meeting of the executive of the indigenous officers of the Public Service Association held on 1st June issued a statement saying that participation by public servants in Warmaram contradicted the proper role for public servants. The statement said that relaxation of restrictions in the Warmaram case was 'inappropriate, ineptly performed and will be detrimental to the interests of public servants'. It went on to say that the Administration, by actively encouraging the group, was now likely further to widen the gap between the Administration and the Mataungans. They also criticised the use of public money in support of the Warmaram group. I want it to be quite clear that their criticism was not of the use of public money in an authentic work of reconciliation: their criticism was of the use of public money if the purpose of the group was to destroy the standing pf the Mataungan leader, which is a political objective. 
Let us be clear on what the Opposition is saying. If the Warmaram group, which included the Mataungans, were a bona fide effort to bring peace and reconciliation to the Gazelle, the Administration may not have been well advised to back it but morally no criticism could be made. If, on the other hand, the Administration used public funds to destroy and reduce the influence of a Mataungan leader, to give the attack on his influence the privilege of radio time while denying any reply, and if it gave leave for public servants to carry out these activities while purporting to be engaged in a work. of reconciliation, then the Administration misused the civil service, the radio and the information service, and engaged in deceit. There has not been the slightest attempt to deny that the Administrator let it be privately known that a major concern of the Warmaram group was to reduce and destroy Kaputin's standing. Today's Melbourne 'Age' justifiably heads its sub-leader on this matter 'White Man's Bluff', and its comment 1 quote in part:  . . there is a wide gap between legitimate encouragement of a native movement and undercover attempts to interfere in New Guinean politics by deliberately loading the 'dice. The confidential letter issued by the Administration and published in the Press, contains instructions for spending public money to support the Warmaram for providing a biased service on the local radio, and - worse of all - for reducing, the standing of  Mr Albert  Kaputin, a leading stirrer of the Mataungans. 
His name, by the way, is 'John*. The article continues: 
Release of the letter may cause great damage, but the damage was caused when the instructions were devised and committed to paper. As the Territories Public Service Association has stated, the Administration's action was 'inappropriate, ineptly performed . . . and detrimental to the interests of public servants'. 
Worse than that, it has probably widened the rift in the Rabaul area and reinforced the suspicions of the angry Mataungans. The Administration's radio service was created to spread education and teach the elements of politics, agriculture and a broad range of social services to the indigenous people. The programme was necessary and it was honourable. To use this Governmentcontrolled medium for political purposes is unjustifiable. 
The' article goes on to say, inter alia: 
The Minister . . . has failed to answer one argument. If the Mataungan Association is a political body - which it obviously is - any group formed to counteract its influence is a political body too. In the next few years we may expect more splinter groups to form in New Guinea. Unless we set an example of honest dealing, what hope have we that an independent New Guinean Government will have learned the basis rules of free speech and fair play? The example of Africa should give us the answer. 
I ask the Minister, the Department of External Territories and the Administration of Papua-New Guinea to look where they are going. They would be well advised to let Mataungans alone for a year and then to have another try at sanity. There has been a disastrous series of blunders which only incredible blindness can shrug off. Some time ago a Rabaul magistrate,  Mr Paul  Quinlivan, did not convict 3 Mataungan leaders. It has never been denied that an Administration instruction went forth that he was not to hear future Mataungan cases.  Mr Whitlam  and I learnt of this instruction from Mataungans. We visited 
Mataungan leaders on a prison farm. Subsequently  Mr Justice  Minogue in the Supreme Court of the Territory held that there had been 'denial of natural justice' and 'gross miscarriage of justice' in cases in connection with the affair which led to their imprisonment. Subsequently on that same prison farm the Administrator has had to deplore and regret the use of leg irons. Then there have been suspensions of European police in Rabaul for alleged cell bashings of indigenes. The Administration reversed itself over a referendum on the multi-racial council. Now finally we have an effort at conciliation regarded as camouflage for an attack on a Mataungan leader, and virtually so characterised by the Administrator in his reference to destroying and reducing Kaputin's influence. 
One does not have to be in any way a supporter of the Mataungan to see that blow after blow at the credibility of Australia in the Gazelle Paninsula area has been struck by the Administration itself. This is a vital and inflammable area. Its people are advanced. They have lost 40% of the arable land to expatriates. There has been an Administration policy of harassment. The Tolai. who in 1939 had all the taxi licences of Rabaul, now have none. Some Tolai, opposed to the Mataungan philosophy but desiring a new spirit, set out on a. work of reconciliation. They have been undermined. 
The Administration needs a holiday from the affairs of the Gazelle Peninsula, lt looks as if its policy is forgetting that independence is coming, lt can mobilise the House of Assembly to vote that its actions, patently wrong, are right, just as it could mobilise the, House of Assembly to vote for tear gas and batons to enforce a policy in Bougainville which was later repudiated. What happens with every vote is that it makes the future unity of Papua-New Guinea more difficult. It has already produced a secession movement in Bougainville. It will produce one in New Britain if it puts concealed purposes to reduce and destroy influence behind what is ostensibly reconciliation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
The Opposition welcomes the statement that has been made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  We welcome, of course, the 25% increase in Commonwealth expenditure on education but it may well be that the most significant part of the statement that has been made by the Minister occurs as late as page 11. There, under what is a very dramatic heading for anybody who remembers the controversies of the last decade, we have in a Government statement a heading 'Nation-wide Survey of Educational Needs'. I am sure all honourable members who have spent the last decade in this Parliament will know how frequently we on the Opposition side have asked for a nation-wide survey of educational needs. The Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  who will act as Minister for Education and Science during the absence of the Minister for Education and Science at a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation meeting told us in the House that the Commonwealth would not conduct a survey of educational needs because if it did it would commit the Commonwealth Government necessarily to heavy expenditures because of the expectations it would raise. We now have the State Ministers for Education forming a body which will make a survey of Australian educational needs and that, if it is actually implemented and carried out, redeems any weaknesses that there may be in this paper. 
The standing weakness In the Government's statement on education is that it is another instalment in a series of piecemeal interventions into education instead of a systematic attack. It is true that as the Commonwealths intervention is increasing, the sporadic nature of its forays is ceasing to be a feature of its policy. It sporadically came into school libaries and it sporadically gave grants for private secondary schools. It has now come more significantly into teacher training. I hope that the Minister's expectations about teacher training will be realised. I have not the least doubt that the quality of teaching will be raised as a result of the action which the Minister foreshadows. However, I have the gravest doubt about the quantity of teachers. In some of the States 47% of those who get a tertiary education get a tertiary education in teachers' colleges and it is doubtful if a higher percentage of young people than that is attracted to the profession. The Minister has pointed out some of the difficulties in relation to this. There will be a sharp increase in primary enrolments. There will be an increasing retention rate of students in secondary schools. There is a continued steady reduction in the pupil/  teacher ratio. 1 feel that any additional teachers we get may well be cancelled out as a result of these other factors mentioned by the Minister. 
The Commonwealth is entering the field of MBA, Masters of Business Administration, through 1 university, the University of New South Wales. It has recognised by this action a special need - a special weakness, if you like - in Australian commercial education. I wish that in all its teacher scholarships it would look at other special weaknesses. A special weakness with a much more general effect is the shortage of teachers of science and mathematics, if the Commonwealth would grant special teaching scholarships in science and mathematics it would be remedying a serious weakness developing in high school education. Surveys of education around the world have shown that Australia is deficient in its scientific and mathematical education and I do not need to stress to the House that this has significance for all education and for industry afterwards, because weaknesses in scientific and mathematical education depriving us of the numbers of students who should be getting advanced scientific and mathematical education in universities do have adverse industrial effects quite apart from Australia's particular need for trained scientists. The teachers who can give the zest for that subject in the decisive secondary school period when many young people are making their decisions about the sort of courses they will undertake are extremely significant. 
The news given by the Minister about the South Australian Government's withdrawal from providing teachers for the Northern Territory is extremely important and it raises the question of the need for the Commonwealth to have its own teachers colleges, which it is doing to some extent with the College of Advanced Education, and to undertake seriously teacher training for its territories and for Papua and New Guinea. So long as the Commonwealth is beholden to the State of New South Wales for the staffing of schools in the Australian Capital Territory, and, even more importantly, so long as it is beholden to the State of South Australia for the staffing of schools in the Northern Territory, to that extent the Commonwealth's capacity to vary its educational policy is limited. It is significant that in the same breath as the Minister is announcing South Australia's gradual withdrawal from the staffing of schools in the Northern Territory he is announcing a very welcome diversification of Commonwealth educational policy and activity in the Northern Territory in the founding of a new educational institution in Darwin. If the Commonwealth has its own trained teachers and really takes full responsibility for education in its own territories it can make all the decisions that are needed for the type of education that should be offered in those territories. I think that there are special needs in the Northern Territory in particular because the children living there, in contrast with those living in the Australian Capital Territory, do suffer serious educational disabilities because of the very nature of the Northern Territory. 
The Minister's statement on the special aid being given to the States in relation to migrant children is also very welcome. The Commonwealth, of course, by its migration policy has created a crisis for the States. There is extreme difficulty in teaching children who do not have any English, children who do not have English as their background language yet come into Australian schools. However, the disabilities that the Minister mentioned also apply to another category of Australian children in many areas and special assistance to the States for them would have been very welcome. I am referring, of course, to Aboriginal children. They suffer great disabilities in coming from the kind of background that they have into schools which have the orientation that our schools have. They need special help, and in areas where there are numbers of Aboriginal children it would be good Commonwealth policy to give the States the special assistance that they need to help those children as well as migrant children. 
The Minister's remarks on teachers colleges follow very much along the lines of a statement he made earlier this year. His statement on scholarships is welcome. I hope that his remarks in relation to the National Union of Australian University Students, it having made certain submissions to him about scholarships, and his indication that he will consider them later in the year, do. not raise the hopes of the students falsely. The Minister said: 
I have received representations that a further increase in benefits is desirable, and have studied a detailed report on this matter prepared by the National Union of Australian University Students. I expect to be able to make a statement on this matter before the end of the year. 
I am sure that as a result of those remarks the students will expect the proposed statement to be favourable. I hope that they will not be disappointed. Generally speaking, we welcome very warmly the Minister's statement. We add the hope that the nationwide survey of educational needs will mark the end of sporadic Commonwealth intervention in the field of education and lead to much more systematic assistance to education. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, as I have said, I second the motion. I think- 
I think that a prima facie case has been made out for the holding of an urgent discussion on the subject matter of the addendum moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and in relation to the whole matter of the defence forces - their pay and allowances. The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  has explained that the recent walk-off by naval personnel was not a mutiny. A reply was circulated to us yesterday about the claims of the personnel of the Royal Australian Air Force that their pay was an occasion for discontent. I do not wish to debate all the merits and demerits of this matter. But, prima facie, a case has been made out for changing altogether the situation in the Services. 
Yes, but surely some prima facie case must be made without going into detailed reasons why the Standing Orders ought to be suspended, otherwise a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders would merely be the reading out of a statement to that effect. 
No, but the matter that should be discussed is the pay and allowances of personnel. I do not wish to go into the details of that but I say that, prima facie, the discontents have been made obvious in this country. The Government would be wise to have an early discussion of this matter. This is the object of the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. I point out to the Minister for the Navy, notwithstanding what he has said about the walk-off not being regarded as a mutiny, that for a couple of years most of the news emanating from the Navy has been rather disastrous. 
A great deal of good news has emanated from the Navy, but certain big news has been quite disastrous and has seemed to indicate a state of malaise which ought to be aired in this 
House, not with a view to destroying the Minister or discrediting the Government 
... but because there is a situation which needs to be discussed. All I am making is the case that the news that has been emanating from the Navy does seem to indicate that these things need to be discussed. We need to create conditions in the Services that will stop the flow of news which suggests that people are resigning from the Services. We need to discuss the situation referred to in part (ii) of the motion, namely, provision for retraining of officers and men. We should consider the housing of Service personnel, which is part (iii) of the motion, because this, together with the transfer of personnel, is a real grievance. We should discuss part (iv) of the motion relating to educational facilities for the children of servicemen. Education at the high school stage for these children has become a major cause of resignations. 
I feel that the setting up of this committee to look into these matters is not a question of trying to embarrass someone in the House but is a question of trying to rectify grievances which appear to be present. I urge the Minister responsible to widen the scope of the inquiry. I ask that the Standing Orders be suspended to enable the scope of the inquiry to be widened. 
This Bill ratines an agreement between the United Kingdom Government and the Australian Government to set up and operate a large optical telescope to be located in Australia at the Australian National University's Observatory at Siding Spring Mountain, near Coonabarabran, in New South Wales. We support the Bill. Australian advance in astronomy will be continued by this legislation. In the field of research by radio telescope Australia is making a significant contribution to world science. This Bill will enable Australia to make a similar significant contribution to optical astronomy. 1 understand that some problem has arisen because Australia is prepared to plan finance for this telescope on a triennium basis but Great Britain is prepared to plan finance only on an annual basis, the consequence being delay in the provision of finance. I ask the Acting Minister for Education and Science  (Dr Forbes)  whether this will inhibit the development of the project. For the rest, the Opposition welcomes the Bill. 
My question to the Prime Minister arises from the news thai troops are again being reinforced in the 
Gazelle Peninsula. Will the Prime Minister again intervene in the affairs of Papua and New Guinea to cut the Gordian knot that is developing on the subject of taxes and the multiracial Council? fs it recognised that in the Gazelle Peninsula the establishment of the multiracial Council involved, as such bodies involve nowhere else, a transfer of control of enormously valuable native assets, including the Tolai cocoa project? If Mataungan leaders came to Australia and could discuss affairs with him out of the atmosphere of the Gazelle, would the Prime Minister receive them as he once received  Mr Paul  Lapun in settling the affairs of Bougainville? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, it was surprising that the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  took the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  to task for talking about defence. The Minister is usually a stickler for tradition. Surely it is one of the oldest conventions of this Parliament that, before the grant of supply to  Her  Majesty, any grievance may be aired. So, in a debate on the Budget it is possible for an honourable member to speak about anything. Now, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  had unlimited time when he spoke on the Budget. 
As did the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  But the Minister for the Navy has taken to task the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who did not have unlimited time. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition confined himself to certain subjects and was attacked by the Minister for the Navy for confining himself to the subject of defence. 
Who did not have unlimited time? 
I said the Treasurer. When we are discussing the Budget, we can discuss all the subjects that the Treasurer covers in his Budget. If I take random headings from the Treasurer's speech, I see: 'Defence', 'Payments to the States', Social Welfare', 'Sheltered Workshops', Repatriation Benefits', 'Mental Health Institutions', 'External Aid', 'Assistance to Woolgrowers' and 'Aboriginal Advancement'. Any member of this Parliament is perfectly entitled to speak in the confined time that he has on any one of those subjects without being expected to cover in a short time all the points raised by the Treasurer. 
The Budget is actually a standstill Budget, not substantially different from the Budget of last year. It reduces income tax and increases indirect tax. It could be described as a computerised balance of penalties and rewards designed to add up to no change. And that is what it is. The Government has decided that it is not budgeting for a large surplus for deflation; it is not budgeting for a deficit to stimulate the economy. It stands still. I think that what we have had in this debate from the Minister for the Navy is a speech on his personal opinion of the unworthiness of the Leader of the Opposition. 1 say to the Minister for the Navy in all seriousness: You have had a mutiny in the Navy and it is time you stood up to tell us why the situation drifted for that grievance. 
I do not effect to know anything. I know that there was unrest and that this was because a situation was allowed to drift that should not have been allowed to drift. The same thing happens from time to time with the Pacific Islands Regiment. A series of mutinies have occurred in that Regiment because situations have been allowed to drift that should not have been allowed to drift. It is up to the Minister for the Navy to explain it in the House and to explain what he is doing to restore morale. I do not wish to say anything personal about him any more. But 1 do think that, if he spends his entire time on personalities directed at the Leader of the Opposition, he should vindicate his own administration as well. 
Oh, no; you are perfectly entitled to answer it. But you have gone on and on and on with no defence of your administration of the Department at all. 
 Now, you stop shouting or the Rotary Sergeant-at-Arms will be fining you. 

 - Mr Chairman, I wish that Communist strategy was as simple as the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  believes it to be. When Pierre Mendes-France gave independence to Morocco and Tunis the Communists in the French Chamber of Deputies, although they ostensibly stood for the independence of Algeria, voted immediately with the ultra right to overturn the MendesFrance Government. They ostensibly believed in the independence of Algeria but what, they wanted was a continuing war in which France would be bled white and a revolutionary situation would be developed in Paris. Ho Chi Minh, at the stage when he was fighting the French, did not want an end to the war because he was not thinking only of the situation in Indo China - he wanted to produce a revolutionary situation in Paris. 
Now, there is not the slightest doubt that the North Vietnamese could get the Americans to withdraw in no time by coming to agreements at the table in Paris. They do not enter into those agreements because they lose nothing for the world Communist cause by the presence of United States troops in Vietnam. The presence of American troops there has separated the United States from most of the peoples of Europe and from most of the youth of Europe and it is dividing the United States from within. 
The Communists are engaged in strategies which are directed at the minds of men. If we think that we are analysing this situation in the world by the endless parroting of Yah Labour', 'Yah Liberal', 'Yah Labour', Yah, Liberal' across this chamber, then we are very deluded. I ask honourable members, very seriously, to think of Vietnam at the time of the overthrow of Diem in 1963. Is the situation better or worse? Then there was a stable South Vietnamese Government with no more than 300 or 400 American advisers. One of the things the Government has to start asking itself is not whether a foreign policy is antiCommunist but whether it is effective. If all the Government asks of a foreign policy is that it be anti-Communist then I would point out that Hitler had an anti-Communist foreign policy and it spread Communism all over Eastern Europe. 
This is not the kind of approach to make to this question because there is such a consideration as the minds of men. We have participated in wars in which people of the locality, the Egyptians, the Malayans or whoever they were, were spectators. But people no longer are spectators - their minds are the battlefield. Does the Government honestly think that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics regrets the presence of American troops in Vietnam? Does it honestly think that the Chinese Government regrets the presence of American troops in Vietnam? If the Government believes this, then its evaluation of the situation is far too simple. The Chinese have not the slightest regret at the presence of American troops in Vietnam any more than the Communists in the French Chamber of Deputies had any regret when they voted with the ultra-right to overturn Mendes-France so that he would not give independence to Algeria. They have a vested interest in disaster. What the Government has produced in South East Asia is extended disaster; so please spare us this denunciation of Sihanouk. I have sat here and heard former Prime Minister Holt speak in the highest praise of Prince Sihanouk. We had an ambassador in Cambodia, Noel Deschamps, who was practically Sihanouk's alter ego. He was a close friend of Sihanouk. If honourable members opposite are satisfied with what has been produced in Cambodia and can simply talk about the situation there in terms of Communists and anti-Communists, I think it is a tragically deficient analysis. The Government under Sihanouk stood on a tight rope. Khmer hatred of the Vietnamese produced before there was an extension of the war, the slaughter of Vietnamese whose bodies we saw on our television screens floating down the rivers. That began the whole process of the undermining of the stability of the Cambodian Government. 
We talk a very great deal about dominoes. It was the United States which dominoed Diem in a thoroughly mistaken policy. Whoever dominoed Sihanouk made the same kind of mistake. I believe that the fundamental mistake of the United States in Vietnam was to analyse the situation there as a major confrontation. It is not. The Middle East is a far more important area of confrontation between the East and the West. The presence of American troops in Vietnam in that world confrontation with Communism is largely an irrelevance. It is not disturbing China in the slightest; it is not disturbing Russia in the slightest. There is, of course, a very marked division between the foreign policy of the Soviet Union and the foreign policy of China. It seems to me that in every world situation Chinese policy is to support the Mau Mau type of activity, the anarchist type of activity, the National Liberation Front type of activity - the  sort  of thing that the Arab guerillas are engaging in. The Soviet Union now, as a very great power following in every respect and in every detail the foreign policies of the Czars, deals with the respectable nationalist governments - the Nassers and others - and hopes to spread its power. 
The honourable member for Farrer has asked: What do we think about the Soviet expansion of power in the Indian Ocean? What can the Government do about it? It is not much use standing here talking about the spread of Soviet power in the Indian Ocean. This is the Government of the country; can it prevent this action? I do not know what expansion of Soviet power has taken place in the Indian Ocean, except that country has submarines and warships in this area periodically. I do not believe that any Indian Ocean country has given the Soviet Union bases or any permanent position such as that. I doubt  whether  Russia is as effective in the Indian Ocean as it would be if it could get the Suez Canal opened. 
But leaving all that aside, it seems to me that a lot of this talk is empty rhetoric. What difference is Australian foreign policy making? I agree that there are tremendous slaughters in Vietnam. I am not an apologist for the North Vietnamese Government but I say that there will be no end to the war in Vietnam without a policy of invading Vietnam and overthrowing its Government. So long as the North Vietnam Government is there as an intact institution it can intervene at any time. The invasion of North Vietnam may very well demand the price of a world war, in which case no intelligent person would believe it was a price worth paying. But if that price is not paid and if the countries involved in South Vietnam are not prepared to take that risk the North Vietnamese from an immune base can invade South Vietnam to continue their policy of unifying the area under their control at any time they like. That is why United States policy is not leading to an end of the situation. 
There are tacit agreements. We always dismiss the Chinese as liars. But it is very unwise to do this. The Chinese are critics of the whole of the West, including Russia, and it may well be that from them there are sometimes utterances of truth. China constantly accuses the United States and Soviet Russia of being collaborators in certain respects in this whole situation. There is no doubt of one thing, for instance. There is a tacit agreement between the United States and Russia that if the United States does not blockade the port of Haiphong the Soviet Union will not provide certain weapons to the North Vietnamese. What we have in North Vietnam with no blockade of the port of Haiphong and with a constant flow of arms to North Vietnam is a formula for permanent war. 
It is not much use talking about Moratoriums and so on. I think there are a great many insincere people in the Moratorium movement. Those people in the movement who genuinely want peace would not advance the Communist cause; those people in it who do not want an end to the Vietnam war because they believe the continuance of the Vietnam war furthers the revolutionary strategies around the world are Communists. That is a Communist strategy and it is very often supported by the forces of the extreme right. Let us face it: This is brought out in the former thinking of the Government of this country. I remember  Sir Robert  Menzies as Prime Minister standing in this place and talking about the French attempt to reestablish their authority in Indo-China. I remember him saying that not to stand for white supremacy was the very ecstacy of suicide. It was the policy of this Governmen to support the French effort to reestablish their authority in Indo-China. No intelligent Communist anywhere on the face of the earth would regret the foreign policy of the Australian Government at that time because it put the nationalist movement of that country behind Ho Chi Minh. 
Honourable members should take a look at some of the oscillations in United States foreign policy in this area. Immediately after the Second World War the United Slates entered an anti-colonialist phase. That country was opposed to the reestablishment of French authority in IndoChina. As a consequence the Japanese surrendered to Ho Chi Minh who received all the Japanese arms. The United States foreign policy then went through a somersault and that country decided that Ho was a dangerous Red. The United States supported the French attempt to re-establish their authority after Ho Chi Minh was armed with Japanese amis. The French attempt went on for 10 years until it finished at Dienbienphu. Then we had the division between the north and south of Vietnam. I hope I am not being unjust to a former United States Ambassador but it seems to me to be highly significant that so long as Maxwell Taylor was Ambassador to Vietnam the Vietnamese tried to murder him. When Lodge became the Ambassador the Vietnamese did not try to murder him at all because they recognised an asset when they saw one.  His  policy towards Diem I think was worth battalions and battalions to the Vietcong. 
It is about time we stopped just talking in terms of what someone is doing in a Moratorium or what someone said and tried to look at what determines the changes in the minds of men. There are unquestionably horrible slaughters perpetrated by the Vietcong and sometimes I think by their opponents. I do not think it is the purpose of the Vietcong to go round slaughtering people. This is what used to be said about the Bolsheviks in 1917. It was not the aim of the Comumnists just to kill everybody. They wanted to take power and set up the apparatus of the state and govern it. They are particularly concerned about that. Of course, in their attempt to unify Indo-China the Vietcong in their war have carried out all sorts of atrocities as most countries at war do. But I am afraid there are certain truths we have to look at. We have to ask: Is our policy effective in turning the minds of men? I am not going to say that military policy cannot do this; it very often can. lt is not just a question of propaganda or ideology. It can very definitely be done by military policy, lt was Clausewitz who said: 'The aim of war is to change the will of the enemy, government and people'. 
I believe that 1 would have to be extremely poor at assessing the world situation if I were not to acknowledge that the Vietcong are far more effective at changing the will of the United States of America than the United States of America is at changing the will of the North Vietnamese to resist. Let us look at 2 situations to illustrate this. We can look at the horrible truth - Czechoslovakia. A wrong action which is carried through swiftly and effectively causes less hostility in the world than a right action which is drawn out bloodily, expensively and destructively. The purposes of the- 
I am speaking of world opinion. The purposes of the United States in Vietnam, I believe, are beyond reproach; but. in 8 years or 9 years of war, they are becoming ragged. The purposes of the Soviet Union in Czechoslovakia were evil and anti-freedom; but its action was carried through swiftly and effectively, and the minds of men have forgotten it. In this battle for the minds of men, which is the essential thing, we need to look at the realities of Communist policy. They are not the superficialities that have been discussed in this debate. 
Oh, roti 
There are many reasons why a man who is fully prepared to be a soldier of Australia should object to the war in Vietnam, without being what is normally understood by the designation 'conscientious objector", and there may be future contingencies in which this will again be true. All Australian soldiers take the oath of allegiance to the Monarch. There is a tiny minority of aliens in the Army whose constitutional position is different, but what I am about to say applies to the overwhelming majority, namely, that they are subjects of the Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, according to the covering clauses of the Constitution and other clauses within it. The Crown is not at war in Vietnam.  Her  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom permits a trade which supplies North Vietnam with weapons. British ships carry Chinese and Russian weapons from Hong Kong and elsewhere to Haiphong. Although the United States commands the Pacific with overwhelming naval superiority, the port of Haiphong is not blockaded. The position of  Her  Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom has simply been that certain of  Her  Majesty's subjects will have money as a result of this trade and other of  Her  Majesty's subjects will have death as a result of this trade. The late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes and the present Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  have protested about this situation, but we have no evidence that the Australian Government has attempted anything in the way of inducing the United Kingdom to cease from the trade. Under the circumstances its sense of responsibility to its own troops is gravely open to question. 
The war aim in this non-war in Vietnam now appears to be to disengage, but the unlimited nature of a commitment on the mainland of Asia and the carelessly undefined obligations assumed towards the South Vietnamese Government appear to make this impossible to he Government. That is the most complimentary construction that it is possible to put on the attitude of the Government. We are confronted with a civil war in which the revolutionary forces are determined to take over the state and to reshape it. The conditions for which we fight are to guarantee existing society and existing regimes. 
Our right to determine the nature of Vietnamese society will no more be accepted than has foreign intervention in any other revolution. Intervention in a revolution, whether American, French or Russian, is a classic formula for failure. If 
Vietnam were a peninsula, like Korea or Malaya, the military line could be terminated at each end by the sea. The enemy could be deprived of supplies and reinforcements. The military commitment could be defined. Swamp, jungle and river on the Asian mainland make the military commitment limitless and intervention interminable. The North Vietnamese already have fought the French for a decade and the United States for 7 years They do not negotiate at Paris because they have no desire to negotiate. In the main, they have the sympathy of Asia because all Asia, even the most proWestern parts like Malaysia, has reached the position that Asians will no longer accept that their fate will be determined for them in Moscow, London, Paris, Washington or even Peking. India and Communist Korea have fought Peking in India's case and snubbed it in North Korea's case. 
The Vietnam war is a formula for failure abroad but for electoral success at home. In this, it resembles the Suez adventure. It coincides perfectly with common illusions in Australia. It wins Australian Democratic Labor Party preferences for the Government and I supect that that is now the Government's real war aim.  Sir Robert  Menzies was the architect  of  this adventure as far as Australia was concerned and he began the Indo-China policy as a supporter of French rule. 
The nation's most consistently successful, and therefore probably its most representative, Prime Minister,  Sir Robert,  asserted that not to stand for the continuance of white rule was the very ecstasy of suicide. In pursuit of such a theory and with the undoubted support of the bulk of the nation Australia threw the weight of diplomatic support behind the French effort to continue rule in Indo China. We are led by the Government to support the destruction of Asian people with napalm and the destruction of their agriculture with picloram under circumstances when the disaster falls indiscriminately on enemies, friends and uncommitted people in Vietnam in a way we would never countenance were the targets Europeans. If Danes, Norwegians or Swedes were being napalmed the revulsion in this country would be tremendous. It is the measure of our unconscious racism that there is no revulsion when the people are yellow. 
I saw the earthy reaction and heard the gut cries of support for a policy of bombing the despised 'Gyppos' in 1956. Australia's initiatives produced the Suez affair in 1956, an automatic Australian reflex action in defence of imaginary jugular veins, lifelines and vital routes without which our economy would be gravely damaged, demonstrating how deep in the thinking of the older Australian generation are imperialist and racist assumptions. Successive explanations of events in Vietnam offered by Australian Governments are now known not to be true, and any person who follows these statements through is entitled to object to involvement in a non-declared war which has been justified by falsehoods. The initial explanation was that we were really fighting China. China was coming south. Department of External Affairs publications, blatantly concocted for party-political use, were put out showing Chinese weapons and inferring Chinese intervention. 
Actually, as far as weapons are concerned, China has supplied the ginger beer and Russia the champagne. If weapons are the proof, a far stronger case can be made that Russia is actively intervening than that China is. Confronted wilh the obvious criticism that if China is the enemy why supply her with wheat, wool and even some etremely vital materials with a direct military bearing, like rutile, the late Harold Holt admitted that China was not involved. This varied  Sir Robert  Menzies' remarkable theory that China was thrusting south to separate the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and that that was what the Vietnam war was about. Then  Sir Robert,  following the Pentagon, asserted that the mosquito fleet of Haiphong had attacked the United States Navy on the high seas iti the Gulf of Tonkin. This stampeded the United States Congress into endorsing the bombing and  President  Johnson into widening the war to attack Hanoi. 
It is now admitted by the naval officers concerned that the attack did not lake place in the Gulf of Tonkin. What is a man who may not be a conscientious objector to make of that? We are unable to be consistent about our allies. After Ambassador Lodge had connived at the overthrow of Diem,  Sir Garfield  Barwick faintly informed the House that as far  aa 
Australia was concerned Diem was a patriot. What does a man who may not be a conscientious objector to war in general make of that? As far as the United States was concerned, Diem was an obstacle, and the Central Intelligence Agency, in overthrowing him, blundered. Whatever he was, his hold on the allegiance of his people was strong enough for him not to need massive outside support. 
It is obvious that our American allies have had to pay for their ignorant meddling with an expansion of an American presence from a few hundred advisers to 600,000 troops. The action in overthrowing Diem also produced the Australian commitment. With Diem's assassination Pandora's box was opened. In the thinking of many Vietnamese the mandate from heaven, the accolade of legitimate government, passed from Diem after his assassination to Ho Chi Minh. People near Saigon, not hitherto enemies, became enemies. For years we accepted the fact that Sihanouk was a friend. After Diem was overthrown Sihanouk broke diplomatic relations with the United States and sent hundreds of United States advisers out of the country. He argued that if Americans dealt as they had done with a man who had been as faithful to them as Diem had been, he, Sihanouk, could not afford to have them around. 
Sihanouk was supported by the Australian Government. The Pentagon, gulling Nixon as it had gulled Johnson over the Gulf of Tonkin, launched an attack on Cambodia on the specious ground that this would facilitate an American withdrawal from Vietnam. It has not done so. Once more Pandora's box was opened. The King of Laos lives in dread of being rescued from the Pathet Lao by white troops. If that happens he knows the nation will turn against him. Asians are tired of the white man's government, tired of the white man's economic exploitation and, above all, tired of the white man's contempt. Corruption can flourish. In Vietnam and in other South East Asian countries presidents and senators can become super-rich and multi-millionaires overnight. If this produces Communism they know that the United States will rush to their rescue. It is the way of Batista and of Papa Doc Duvalier all over again. The course of history will not stay on the side of corruption, and the Government's policy is folly. Menzies' contempt for the 'Gyppos' turned the Arab world from being a British sphere of influence into a Russian sphere of influence. 
 I ask the Minister for 
Customs and Excise whether his attention has been drawn to the complaints of John Guise concerning his treatment by Customs officials. I ask whether an inquiry has been made and, if so, with what result. Is there any means whereby Customs officials know when any representative of Papua and New Guinea is travelling through Australia or to Australia and treat him accordingly? 
In a recent debate the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  demanded to know what the Opposition was going to do about the Soviet fleet in the Indian Ocean. He did not reveal what the Government intended to do. The last voice we heard from that quarter was that of the Honourable Gordon Freeth, who as Minister for External Affairs appeared to welcome the Soviet presence. It is not clear whether the honourable member for Farrer thought Soviet warships should be attacked on the high seas, or whether ports which allowed them to visit should be bombed, but it is clear that we are in the presence of another issue in which the Government's main concern appears to be electioneering. For years the port of Fremantle has been graced by the presence of HMAS 'Diamantina' as the sole representative of the Royal Australian Navy on the west coast. HMAS 'Diamantina' is the sort of warship the British use for dealing with Icelandic fishermen when the main weapon used in anger by the Icelandic adversary is likely to be a boat hook. HMAS 'Diamantina' mounts a Bofors gun with a range of 3 miles al the outside, and, when really agitated, can probably raise 20 knots. It has always been considered that the Army commander of the water-borne Army forces in the west has a more powerful navy at his normal disposal than the Royal Austraiian Navy in that State. 
The Soviet presence at the moment is ideological. Showing the flag to impress is the strategy of all naval powers. The question arises: to impress whom? Soviet policy is probably primarily designed to impress India, which since 1962 has been antiChinese. The Soviet diplomatic initiative of 1969, to which Freeth responded positively, was designed to organise some kind of an association in South East Asia against China. Clearly, the Soviet Union hopes to match whatever kudos the United States gels from Vietnam intervention if this intervention suggests United Stales protection of South East Asia with a Soviet suggested role as the protector of South East Asia herself. We are confronted with a defective naval policy in the face of new Soviet initiatives. Australia has not built a Navy with a Soviet naval presence in the South Pacific or the Indian Ocean in mind. Our submarines are conventional, slow, not nuclear engined, of defective cruising radius and coffins if confronted underseas with hunter killer submarines at least nine times as fast submerged. Oberon was a fairy king, and the Oberon class is about as real as Oberon's 'bright diadem, sceptre and mantle clasp'd with dewy gem' which according to Keats frighted away the driads and the fawns'. Oberon submarines might frighten away the driads and the fawns, but not the Soviet anti-submarine submarines. 
If Australia wants a naval presence anywhere that means anything it must have a Navy nuclear engined and missile equipped; it must have submarines that are effective because they are nuclear powered; and it must look at its lamentably slow and weak patrol boats and replace them with vessels of at least the speed and hitting power of the Royal Navy's Gay Bombardier class. If naval confrontation is to be a battle of pressures and counter pressures short of war the Australian pieces on the chess board must be worthy of respect. If naval confrontation is to be conflict Australia's seamen need something better than death traps like the Oberons confronted with the hunter killer submarine craft. The Royal Australian Navy needs to be backed by an industry which can make nuclear engines, which can make a profusion of fast anti-submarine craft, which can make missiles and which can make aircraft. Our capacity in these respects could easily exceed that of Sweden, but the Government will not think in terms of an independent capacity for defence construction. Australia's tractor industry could make tanks. It should be given orders which give it the chance profitably to demonstrate its capacity to switch to do so. Australia could make defence aircraft. If there is additional expense it could scarcely lead to a more extravagent experience than the Fill aircraft. 
Our defence thinking needs recasting. We need a coast guard with a professional nucleus and a Citizen Military Forces component. The United States has a citizen air force where citizen airmen fly jets and transport planes. They are respected servicemen. Our conception of the CMF is that of a poor relation, ill equipped, boring and not properly valued by the Army. The CMF should include the most expert activities of the Army and civilian experts, who in war time have high skills and soar to the top in enlarged armies. They should be offered positions in the CMF in which their skills are used. Civil defence needs rethinking and it needs a professional component. If a civil defence organisation is justified at all it is justified on the assump tion that there could be an attack on Australia. If that assumption is made the method of attack needs to be postulated and the counter to the attack needs to be organised. There should clearly be a CMF component for the defence of cities and industrial concentrations. One has the impression that men who are part-time soldiers are under valued because service with them is a lesser career for their officers. There should be an end of these attitudes. 
Australia has an unerring instinct apparently for producing a divided army - the old equivalent of 'cobbers' and chocos'. Switzerland and Sweden have had generations of citizen soldiers without any of these jackasseries. An efficient unified concept of defence with a respected and fully professional place for the CMF ia the Air Force, the Navy, a coast guard service, the Army and civil defence is overdue. Australia's defence east, west and south is oceanic. This presupposes a long range Air Force and a wide radius Navy. To the north there are archipelagoes. This presupposes efficient mine laying, fast and hard hitting patrol boats and efficient reconnaissance. Our defence policy is bedevilled by controversy over the Vietnam war but that will not always be so. We are looking for a rationally based defence policy, rationally explained and, if possible, bi-partisan. What ought not to be in controversy is the industrial capacity for defence construction and defence experience given to Australian firms in that construction. 
I desire to ask the Minister for the interior a question. Was the request for premises licensed to sell spirituous liquor on an Aboriginal reserve one which emanated from the Aboriginal people themselves or from the people who desired to open the business? Was the Office of Aboriginal Affairs or the Welfare Branch of the Northern Territory Administration consulted before the licence was granted? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of tha House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth. 
That there is a crisis in Aboriginal welfare in tha South West Land Division of Western Australia resulting from a population explosion, poor housing and hygiene and unemployment and unemployability. 
That there is a need to phase out native reserves in the South West Land Division of Western Australia over the next three years. 
That town housing must be provided for all Aboriginal families where the bread winner has permanent employment or an age or invalid pension entitlement. 
That such housing must be supported by the appointment of permanent 'home-maker' assistance in the ratio of one home-maker to every eight houses or part thereof. 
That incentives of housing, 'home-maker' services and training facilities must be created in centres of potential employment for those who are currently unemployed or unemployable. 
That insufficient State or Federal assistance has been made available to meet these requirements. 
That adequate finance to meet these requirements can only be provided by the Commonwealth Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will give earnest consideration to this most vital matter. 
And your petitioners as in duly bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The measure before us is perhaps more important for what the Minister for 
Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  foreshadows about the power to award degrees that will be conferred upon the Canberra College of Advanced Education, and also the establishment of a national accrediting body which will certify graduation degrees from colleges of advanced education around Australia, than it is for the measures contained in the Bill to change the composition of the Council which governs the Canberra College of Advanced Education. 1 want to say immediately that it is my conviction that the line of evolution which is being followed in this college will be quite simple. There will develop from it, first of all, a university of Canberra, a teachers' college and an institute of technology, and if the Government confers upon a college of advanced education the power to award degrees then that sector of it will develop and develop until it becomes a university, f would welcome this. 1 think that a university of Canberra should be created in the very near future and 1 believe we will find that there is no abiding place in this present structure for the College of Advanced Education. At the same time it is the desire of the Opposition to enhance the status of the College of Advanced Education and in the committee stage of the Bill 1 propose to move amendments to the clauses which refer to the Council governing the College of Advanced Education. These clauses are taken from the legislation which sets out the Council of the Australian National University. 
The Council of the Australian National University has 2 members of the Senate, elected by the Senate, within its composition and, in a proposed amendment, we will attempt to change the composition of the Council of the College of Advanced Education in the same way. It should have 2 representatives of the Senate. It should also have 2 representatives of the House of Representatives, as does the Australian National University Council. In addition to that we want to provide for 3 representatives of the community of the Australian Capital Territory to be elected in a manner to be prescribed. The Australian Capital Territory is very conscious of its own educational problems. It has, I would say, an exceptionally enlightened group of people con cerned about education within  i'.iL  community as one might expect having regard to the nature of the community, and we believe there should be 3 representatives of the Canberra community on the governing Council of the College of Advanced Education. 
These proposals will, of course, enlarge the Council of the College of Advanced Education but the Australian National University is now run by a sanhedrin of 41 as its governing Council so it does not seem to be unreasonable to assume that the Council of the College of Advanced Education should be enlarged also. I think that if Canberra had a lord mayor and a city council they might have something to do with the selection of the members of the Council of the College of Advanced Education, but the Australian Capital Territory is accustomed to electing people to governing bodies within it. There is the rather unusual procedure, for instance, which elects members of the Hospital Board. 
There is no reason why a community which is as alert on the subject of education as is the Canberra community should not itself directly elect 3 members of the' Council of the College of Advanced Education. 1 hope that the Minister will succeed in persuading the States to establish the national accrediting body which he foreshadowed in his second reading speech. I hope that the States, if they are responsible for delaying the establishment of that body, will change their attitude very quickly. Now I shall have a look at the changes which the Government itself proposes, lt proposes that there shall be 2 students to be elected to the Council by the student body, for the Council to be empowered to arrange, if it wishes, for separate representation of part time and full time students, and because it is providing for the representation of students it lowers the age of membership of the Council from 21 years to 18 years. I think this is a welcome development, lt also provides that the ViceChancellor of the Australian National University may have an alternate on the Council because of the pressures under which the Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University works. This means apparently that very often he must be absent from the meetings of the Council of the College of Advanced Education. That seems to us to be quite reasonable. 
The Bill also provides for teaching staff representation on the Council to be increased from 2 to 3 members. I suppose one might as well note the new trend which is now developing within universities for the students not to want separate student representation but for them to want the whole university to be regarded as one corporate body and for the students to be electing the staff representatives in conjunction with the staff and the staff to be electing the student representatives in conjunction with the students. I do not know how the staffs will accept this since they are greatly outnumbered by the student body. We are assured that the student body is not a solid bloc and that there would be a very clear division between them so that staffs do not have reason to fear that they will be swamped by the students. But I could well imagine that members of the staff who may be very competent to be on the Council but who are not tremendously popular with the students could find themselves not elected. However, that is a matter for the future. But it is a new trend within the National Union of Australian University Students and within student representative councils. 
We welcome the Bill. We hope that the Government will accept our amendments. After all, there is a very good reason why this Parliament should be interested in the College of Advanced Education in Canberra. It is in many ways a model institution for all these institutions throughout Australia. This Parliament has a traditional association with bodies that are developed within Canberra. I suspect that there will be a line of evolution to a Canberra university out of the measures that the Government is now taking or the changes that are envisaged by recognising the right of the College of Advanced Education in Canberra to award degrees. We believe that by providing for representation from the Senate and the House of Representatives on the College of Advanced Education in Canberra, the College will be greatly benefited. We also believe that the presence of Canberra representatives, vigilant of the needs of education in their own area, will benefit the College of Advanced Education and help the community of Canberra to take an informed and intelligent interest in the College. The principle of parliamentary representation is, as I say, one which the Government has already accepted with regard to the Australian National University, and we hope that the Government will accept it with regard to the Canberra College of Advanced Education. 
-I move: 
In proposed section 8, sub-section (1.) before paragraph (a) insert the following paragraphs: "(aa) two senators elected by the Senate; (ab) two members of the House of Representatives elected by that House;". 
I am sorry that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has not seen fit to accept this amendment. If there is anything that experience of tertiary education in institutions around Australia has shown it is the need for  a  community interest and a close community knowledge through its representatives. The Opposition proposes to ensure this in 2 ways, by representation of the Parliament and the Canberra community in the governing of these tertiary bodies. I think this is a very great advantage. These bodies are very much under attack. We had an example of the stupidity of such attacks during the Returned Services League conference in relation to what is really a city, the University of New South Wales which has some 15,000 students. Some student off the campus produced a publication called Tharunka', and solemn statements were made to the effect that something should be done about the university. I mean by that that this type of critical view shows the same misunderstanding as is expressed when in a country town a resident misbehaves and it is then suggested that the whole town is involved in what has been done. As an observation this kind of criticism is just about as intelligent. That is why I feel that community representation on the governing bodies of these tertiary educational institutes is quite important. In any event, I do not know why we have to differentiate between the Canberra College of Advanced Education and the Australian National University. The Minister has said that the Government does not accept that there should be no differentiation but I have been given no clear reason why the Government does not accept it. Why it is regarded as undesirable that this Government have an interest in the Canberra College of Advanced Education. I do not know. I presume the Canberra community representation proposal will also he rejected by the Government. I would like to know why. 
 Well, that may be true. 1 do. not know that the Bill will be rejected in the Senate in which case we may be discussing this matter again when the Bill comes back to us. It seems to me there is an analogy between the Council of the Australian National University and this body. I think there is no doubt that the Australian National University has gained as a result of Parliamentary representation upon the Council. Certainly that is the impression I have had over all the years I have been on it, and I have been on it since 1949. 1 believe the College of Advanced Education would gain from the representation of this Parliament on it. So I move the amendment which has been circulated and which provides for the representation of 2 senators and 2 members of the House of Representatives. 
The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has said that there is not an analogy between the Canberra College of Advanced Education and the Australian National University. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  has just made a case - unintentionally I presume - for removing the members of Parliament from the Council of the Australian National University. The Minister said that there was no more case for having members of this Parliament on the Canberra College of Advanced Education Council than on any of the other Councils of colleges of advanced education round Australia. I am not able to follow that argument. The Canberra College of Advanced Education is entirely financed by the appropriations of this Parliament. This Parliament is therefore entirely responsible for it. It makes grants towards colleges of advanced education elsewhere, but they are primarily financed by the States. The Parliament is also exclusively responsible for the financing of the Australian National University. We do not have members of this Parliament on the councils of the State universities because we make grants through the States to those universities and the primary responsibility rests on the States. But there is no State to be responsible here in the Australian Capital Territory. The Australian Capital Territory was created for this national Parliament and our responsibility towards every institution in the Territory is quite direct It has no other parliament. I feel that we do have a most direct responsibility towards the Canberra College of Advanced Education. 
I feel it is tragic when a new member comes into this Parliament and has so low an esteem for fellow members of this Parliament. I have seen members of Parliament from both sides of the House on the Council of the Australian National Univer sity, as I say, over 21 years. I think 1 am the only one who is original; the others have constantly been changing. The contribution that they have made to the Council of the Australian National University has been very considerable indeed. It was in some respects a contribution that nobody else could have made. Members have been invited on to all sorts of sub-committees, some with peculiar responsibilities such as those that determine fees, and I have been on a finance committee over a good many years. This low esteem for Parliament is, of course, what the Westminster system of Parliament is constantly leading to. Parliament i? nothing, the ministry is everything. On the other hand the United States with its Congressional system recognises very much the importance of having elected representatives of the people on all sorts of bodies determining policy, whether it is in regard to education, defence or anything else, and I do not believe that the trend in the Westminster system of Parliament is a healthy one. When we have a new member of Parliament coming in and suggesting a poor sort of valuation on politicians that is put out all the way round the country I think it is very sad. 
The honourable member himself has had a distinguished record in universities. He has a special experience and a special expertise. I could not imagine a better man to be put on the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education as representing the Government side of the House than the honourable member for Denison and I am sure that as his experience here develops he will be able to give to the Council a special degree of information, advice and counsel thai would be valuable to them. In addition to that he would have an understanding of the problems of the institution when it is discussed in this Parliament. I am sorry that the Minister does not see fit to accept the amendment. We believe that it is right and that it is valuable for the Council itself. The Council is not just a field in which members of Parliament can indulge a hobby and get experience. This Parliament exclusively provides the money for this institution and it should be represented on the Council. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr  Beazley's) be agreed to. 
I move: 
In proposed section 8, sub-section (1.), after paragraph (b) insert the following paragraph: (ba) three representatives of the community of the Australian Capital Territory elected in  a  manner to be prescribed;' 
Should this amendment fail, amendments (3) and (4) which were circulated in my name and which are consequential to the first 2 amendments will not be relevant any further. The members of the Opposition's education committee have been extremely impressed by the deputations which have come to us from Canberra citizens concerned about education. We have been impressed by the high level of expertise in these deputations. We have seen the controversies they have conducted with the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in letters in the 'Canberra Times', and if the Minister will forgive us, we have come to the conclusion that in the main they have had the better of the argument. As a consequence, we have been impressed by the possibility of direct representation of the Canberra community on the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education. I think that the College would gain from such a direct link with the community. I know that provision is made for the Governor-General to make appointments to the Council, which means Cabinet appointments. People who are distinguished locally can be appointed to the Council of the College, but I think that if the Canberra community had a direct interest in the Council it would be a gain for both the community and the institution. We think it is a very good thing that in this capital city a body distinctively belonging to it, like the College of Advanced Education, should have a direct link with the community. That is why I have moved the amendment. 
I think the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  spoke with the authentic voice of the Australian philosophy of educational administration when he suggested that the community should be kept at bay. This is something that is uniquely Australian. In the United Kingdom - in England and Scotland specifically - local government has authority over education. There are usually education boards as an associated part of education. The locality elects representatives to govern local education. This is equally true in the United States of America. In Australia we have a steel determination to keep this type of system at bay and education has always been centralised on the State governments except in the case of private schools. What is the consequence? If we went around the constituencies which have had Ministers for Education as their representatives - I specifically mention Broken Hill which I recently visited - we would see beautiful high schools and beautiful facilities that Ministers had acquired for their constituencies. I believe that if there had been much more localised control over education with a discussion of educational issues there would not have been what is the most marked feature of Australian education. I refer to educational slums in certain areas and very good educational facilities in others - the appalling unevenness of educational facilities. 
Yes, but where we have a local authority with a national government, as is the case in the United Kingdom, and grants are made, each local authority presses for its grant. They do not tend to fall so far behind merely because they are an underprivileged area. 
However, I do not wish to argue that. What I do wish to argue is this: I think that it would be an extremely good thing for all the issues of education to be debated. In the terminology that the Press has popularised, there are supposed to be shadow ministers. Insofar as I am a shadow Minister for Education and Science, let me say that if I have authority and if there were a change of Government, there would be an elected local authority here governing education here and set up as a model. Whether the model would be imitated by the States that so far wish to go on centralising administration or not, I do not know. But I certainly believe that education in the Australian Capital Territory should be governed by a body elected by the people of the Australian Capital Territory. That is what I will try to enact. 
It is a feature of such a policy. Here, on a very important educational body, it would be a very good thing if in the Canberra community there were controversies - electoral controversies - as to what ought to be policy about this place and in the election of these representatives educational issues would come into focus. I did mention the 8 persons who were nominated by the Governor-General, may I inform the honourable member for Denison. I did mention that they could be distinguished local people. Of course, they are distinguished, in the case of  Mrs Crisp  and others. I have not any doubt that this process of co-opting is a very important part of forming this Council. I have not suggested that the entire Council should be elected. But I have suggested that it should contain an elected element. This is the purpose of the amendment. 
I think that there needs to be some clear thinking about and analysis of the resources which the Australian nation should devote to education. We also need to make a comparative analysis of our expenditure on education and that of other countries. I refer in particular to the percentage of gross national product. Over 5 or 6 years in this Parliament there have been controversies about how Australia stands as a country spending a percentage of its gross national product on education within a table of the nations. It is time that there was an authoritative analysis to see exactly what percentage we do spend and how it really does compare, if we can get a genuinely comparative figure. Commonwealth intervention in education has tended to be ad hoc. We came in when the universities were in a state of crisis, when we had the findings of the Murray Commission, and we have come in at election times with Commonwealth scholarships, with science grants, with grants for school libraries and so on. It has been very much a build-up of pieces rather than a consistent attack or philosophy of education on the part of the Commonwealth. 
The problem between the Commonwealth and the States appears to me to be that the Commonwealth has the revenue producing powers of levying income tax, sales tax customs and excise, payroll tax and company tax. They are clear advantages that it has over the States. The Commonwealth and the States have departments which may become bottomless pits. For the Com monwealth they are defence, if we should continue to go on spending and spending, social services and health. The Government can spend the entire national income on health if it wants to, and in this field the more successful a doctor is in prolonging our lives the more we have to have a need for a doctor over a longer life. So we can go on with indefinite increases in that expenditure in the health' fields. The States have possible bottomless pits such as education, roads and health and again there is the expenditure on hospitals. These things need to be looked at and I will have all of these things in mind when I make comments on these 2 Bills. 
In the resent election there was a tendency to discover something dreadfully sinister in a proposal of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that universities shall be free. I went to a free university. My father being on the basic wage at the time and also in part-time employment, 1 would not have been able to attend a university in any other State but Western Australia where, thanks to the Hacket! bequests, endowments and so on, at that stage of history the University of Western Australia was free, and it was free fori about 47 years. Of course there was a steel determination on the part of some professions that if new faculties were added to the university they should no! be free. One of the rewards that the Western Australian community received for its generosity in raising 580,000 or $1,160,000 by private collection to establish a medical school was that the University of Western Australia ceased to be free. There would, I think, be some resistance to the idea of a free faculty of medicine. For nearly 50 years the University was free, without any sinister results. What really happened was that the calibre of the Stale civil service in Western Australia as a consequence was very high. In its administration it was extremely well governed. The State engineering was extremely good, as I think we can see in the roads in Western Australia. I know there is a certain amount of resentment about the share of Common- wealth money which that State received to build its roads but it does have extreme!) good engineers. 
Yes, but I might also say that its bridges did not fall down! We had a very high percentage of sciencegraduates in teaching in the days when 1 was a student at school. Admittedly not so high a percentage went to the high schools in those days but it was far higher than that in other States.. Because the University was free, there was a higher percentage of graduates among the teachers and so on. None of these things were sinister but it is quite astonishing that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his attacks on the Leader of the Opposition discussed the idea of a free university as some kind of a plot. As I say it existed for nearly 50 years in Western Australia and it is regrettable that it has gone. There would have to be additional expenditure to make universities free but it would not be a great expenditure and the component that goes into commonwealth scholarships for fees would not then be necessary, although they would still be necessarily the component of living allowances. 
There is also another question that we need to look at. There is a very great tendency when we are discussing social services - and I have mentioned that they could be a bottomless pit - not to ask the further question of whether Australia is getting a fair return on the resources that are being taken out of it. I do not think, for instance, that the State of Western Australia is getting a fair return out of its mineral wealth. This is a historic attitude on the part of Western Australian governments. We had Lord Forrest as our Premier at one stage and he rather had a tendency to believe that loyalty was to pour everything into mother Britain's lap. In the days when a man's wage for a week was 1 we had' 500m taken out of the Golden Mile. On the Golden Mile there were the most miserable schools and the most miserable hospitals one could imagine. The people of the State paid taxes for water schemes and so forth so that this wealth could be taken by overseas companies. This has been the  Western  Australian attitude and it has been the attitude of a great many of the States. 
When we are discussing what we can afford to spend on education and social services we need to ask whether we do not have a series of State governments making a series of mug's bargains, compared with a good many other countries, about the resources that are being developed in Australia by overseas interests. 
The Sweeney and Eggleston adjustments to salaries merely register the process of inflation. Let us face the fact that the expenditure in these Bills which applies to the salaries of university staffs and the staffs of colleges of advanced education are not actual increases in salaries. They are cost of living adjustments and the increased expenditure in these measures is to a very considerable extent the registering of the process of inflation. If that is true about salaries it is also necessarily true about capital expenditure on university buildings and halls of residences, those attached to schools of mines, and so on. I remember that at one stage when I was on the Council of the Australia National University in the era when value was being put back into the 1 there was scarcely any building for the Australian National University that did not end up costing about twice as much as the original estimate, because the process of inflation was going on and of course going in to building costs. If we have to register the process of inflation in expenditure for increased salary we should remember that there is the same factor affecting the actual purchasing power of money appropriated for university and college of advanced education buildings. 
The crisis in education would be precisely what the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  said. In denying the existence of a crisis he said how very difficult it is to get adequate university staff. The crisis in educataion is, of course, the inability of institutions to adjust very quickly to a complete change in the values in the Australian community. In the last decade we have experienced the phenonemon of a much higher percentage of people expecting their children to get a tertiary education. Obviously we have as a consequence a crisis in trying to adjust our universities, colleges of advanced education, and technical schools to the new demand. The crisis of adjustment is not only in new buildings and in new student places; it is, of course, in the effort to attract staff. As the honourable member for Denison said in denying that there is a crisis, it is extremely difficult for universities and colleges of advanced education to get staff. 
If colleges of advanced education are to award degrees, I cannot see the logic of the position of the honourable member for Denison in saying that the staffs of those colleges - at least those colleges which will conduct degree courses - should be lower than those in universities. If a Bachelor of Science degree awarded by a college of advanced education is to be the equivalent of that of a university on the basis of our national accrediting system, obviously the people who will be lecturing and providing tuition and guidance to students must be of the same calibre as those in the universities. At least that element in colleges of advanced education which are conducting degree courses should be equally paid. 
Yes, but I am dealing with what the honourable member for Denison said. I agree that this is recognised. 1 want to move on to another point that should be recognised. I will not say that someone who is of high quality and who is a genius for giving forms of education immensely valuable to the community but which do not lead to degree courses must be rated as less valuable in the community than someone in a university who is a lecturer. The whole of our education system in Australia seems to me to be riddled with certain false assumptions. We may have someone outside our teritiary education system who is a genius- 
Well, we may have someone who is a genius in the field of country teaching. Under our system this person must get promoted into the metropolitan area. There are many education systems in the world - in Scotland and elsewhere - which will give a man promotion in the position where he is without translating him to another position, if he has a genius for a particular job. The point I want to make is that a large part of our educational tragedy is that we ultimately decide that we have to translate someone who is a darned good headmaster into being  a  very bad Director of Education which is an entirely different job - it is an administrative job. My point is that we need to analyse promotions. We need to make an analysis of the values of certain jobs without declaring straight out that someone in  a  college of advanced education should necessarily be paid  a  lower salary than someone in  a  university. 
Yes, of course there is the ability to inspire in research, but there is also a need for universities to stop pro- 1 moting people simply on the masses of sometimes boring or sometimes redundant publications that they put out. The weight of papers they produce has no particular bearing on the salary they should receive. It is time that a value better than slighting was put on the work of those who have a genius for teaching and inspiring students. 
I still think there is a role for teaching in universities as well as a role for research. I think that somehow or other we can come back to this position. I realise there is a problem here. Today a professor of engineering who has a capacity to teach the fundamentals over a wide field will very quickly find that a student who is not  a  graduate but who specialises in some new direction goes way beyond him in the salar)' that he receives. But that does not alter the fact that his teaching inspiration, even if he is not at that time engaged in research to try to keep up with everyone else in all of these directions, is of high value. We need to evaluate rather differently some of these questions of research. 
The Canberra College of Advanced Education and some other colleges of advanced education, including the college at Hobart, are apparently developing what would normally be called teachers colleges, schools of teaching or schools of education. I hope that the Canberra College of Advanced Education will develop a full teachers college in conjunction with a Faculty of Education at the Australian National University which ought to be developing. The Commonwealth has to take a fresh approach to this aspect of tertiary education. I refer here to the training of teachers. Too often we have tried to get from the States teachers for Papua and New Guinea and for the Northern Territory. Of course, we get teachers from New South Wales for the Australian Capital Territory. We should try  to  attract to training institutions within the Canberra College of Advanced Education, and I hope to a Faculty of Education at the Australian National University, candidates for teacher training who would serve in the Commonwealth Territories - to serve in Papua and New Guinea in that country's last gallop towards independence, when education will become even more important. If, in the course of time, these teachers are phased out of the Territories, as they will be in Papua and New Guinea, 1 have no doubt that the demand for teachers in the States is so great that they would not have any problem in finding employment. 1 think that the Commonwealth, which now has a large number of children under its authority in Papua and New Guinea. Canberra and elsewhere, should be contributing to a greater extent to the training of teachers than it has done hitherto. I hope that my observations will not be taken as meaning that I do not congratulate the Minister on introducing these 2 Bills. I think they are necessary and that they are making necessary adjustments. They perhaps do not set the Thames on fire but they are part of the mechinery of good government. 1 believe the Commonwealth has developed a rather piecemeal approach in education. We need a much more systematic approach to education. 
This measure does not actually set up the body that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  mentions in the attachment to his second reading speech. If one goes through the Bill one finds no mention of the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education. As far as the Bill is concerned the responsible granting authority is the Minister himself. Behind the Minister is this advisory committee consisting of a number of distinguished academics, educationalists and administrators. In his second reading speech the Minister pointed out that the Commonwealth is already assisting educational research through a number of bodies. The Australian Research Grants Committee conducts research into some aspects of education. The Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Advanced Education, the Australian Council for Educational Research and the Australian science education project conduct research into education. The tertiary education entrance project researches some aspects. 
There now appears to be the addition of a sixth force in granting assistance to education. I do not say it is a body because the Bill does not set up the body. The sixth force is the Minister himself. The Minister also draws our attention to the fact that the Government made an election promise to stimulate educational research by special assistance commencing with the allocation of $250,000 in the 1970-71 Budget. This Bill provides the fulfilment of the promise of $250,000 in this first year. 
The Minister's colleague, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  in the days when he was a private member was passionately interested in Aboriginal culture. He succeeded in inducing the Government to set up the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. This research body was set up as a statutory body. Applications are made to it for research into Aboriginal music, languages, rituals or any aspect of Aboriginal culture. A tremendous development has taken place in the study of the Aboriginal people because of grants made by this body which was very largely the work of the Minister for Social Services. Originally he was on its council. 
The Opposition feels that there should be a statutory body - not an advisory body - behind the Minister for Education and Science, to which body applications could be made by those who wish to do significant educational research. What is needed in this country is virtually a royal society of education. Accordingly, the Opposition will move a second reading amendment to the effect that what the Minister has made an advisory body should be a statutory body and that it should report annually to Parliament the principles on which it is operating, the research projects it has approved and the whole of its operations. We do not want to oppose the Bill. What we want to do is shift the basis of the Minister's advisory committee. We believe that this will be a more fruitful approach. We believe that people would feel more free to approach an educational body in applying for assistance for significant research than they would if the fundamental approach was to the Minister and, behind the Minister, this advisory committee. 
I do not want to delay the House over this measure. I stress mat the Opposition supports the second reading of the Bill. I propose to make a second reading amendment. I move: 
That all words after "That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the House while not refusing a second reading to the Education .Research Bill is of the opinion that the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education should be a statutory body reporting its principles, actions and recommendations annually to Parliament'. 
I wish to ask the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs a question. Has the Minister yet learned that a survey by members of some of the medical disciplines of the University of Western Australia, just completed, has revealed serious health problems among Aboriginals in the Kimberleys, especially relating to hookworm, respiratory infections, and, I understand, poor nutrition? Is the Minister aware that the respiratory infections have been found to have the effect of seriously impairing the hearing of Aboriginal children, thereby drastically reducing the benefit  gained from their schooling? Can the Commonwealth, after examination of the findings, finance a health and educational compaign to rectify these sub-standard conditions in the Kimberleys? 
by leaveThe Opposition welcomes the adjustments which have been made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  butwe have been impressed by the submissions made by the National Union of 
Australian University Students. It seems to us that these adjustments are being made more than a year behind the changes in the cost of living, and they always appear to us to be inadequate by a margin of approximately $100 when compared with the sort of real living costs which students actually have to face. We are also a little disappointed that in this statement there is no reference to a further adjustment in the marginal adjusted family income - the means test which applies to the income of parents of students. The comments of the National Union of Australian University Students on this question seem to us to be important. Referring to an earlier adjustment that was made by the Commonwealth, the Union said: 
NUAUS congratulates the Commonwealth on the increase in the Marginal Adjusted Family Income (MAFI) and its decision to keep this under review in the light of variations in the Commonwealth Statistician's index Weighted Average Minimum Weekly Wage. 
However, we are disturbed that the ratio of the MAFI to average earnings is the lowest in 1970 since 1961. We would therefore recommend that the MAFI should be increased by $250 to $2,900. 
At present it is $2,650. The Union conducted a survey of the actual costs incurred by university students. The Union has this comment to make - and it seems to us to he quite moderate: 
NUAUS has also looked at the maintenance or living costs for a university student 
In 1969 it was estimated that total costs for students living away from home, not including hooks and equipment, were $1,106 to $1,289. 
Since then fares, rents, clothing and food costs have all risen. 
A revised estimate for 1970 is between-- 
And this change will not apply until 1971- 
. $1,132 to $1,362. Comparable figures for a student living at home are $754 to $9 14 in 1969 and $768 to $968 in 1970. These figures are not based on luxury living, but for a student living modestly. 
The Union has gone into the question of typical student charges. I will not go into the fees, books and stationery, but living costs for a girl arts student living away from home were $1,247 a year ago and it is about the same for a man living away from home. The Union suggest a change which seems to us to have something to recommend it. It suggests: 
NUAUS believe that the Commonwealth should examine the case for two MAFIs-- 
That is, the marginal adjusted family income -  the living at home MAFI and the living away from home MAFI. 
We suggest this because it seems to us that there is an extra burden on families in nonmetropolitan areas who send their children away to a tertiary institution. For a student living away from home and his family there are two cost burdens. The first is that living away from home is more expensive than remaining at home. Such costs as accommodation and the wages of a housekeeper, etc., are considerations when living away from home is necessary. These costs are already taken into consideration with the present differential between living allowances. The second cost which is a hidden cost is that students who have to live away from home, the vast majority being country students, come from home situations which usually include lower family incomes and higher living costs. This means that the percentage of income spent on sending a child to university is higher than it is for a city family on the same income. We estimate this cost differential at $500. 
We do not ask that all these adjustments be made but we do feel that the adjustments are somewhat belated and also somewhat inadequate and we hope that there will be a speedy review. 
I would like to pay a brief tribute  to the memory of  Mrs Blackburn.  She was a colleague of mine in this Parliament for 3 years. J think she was genuinely independent of all the political parties. If it be true that her philosophy was in general on the left, it would also be true that she was completely independent and pursued an attitude entirely of her own. She was a very gentle woman; she was very humane. In that Parliament of 1946 to 1949 she contributed a quite distinctive outlook and was a valuable member of the Parliament. 
The Opposition regrets that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has not seen fit to accept the recommendation of the Council of the Australian National University that student representation on the Council be increased. The Minister's reply to the recommendation is somewhat light. He said: 
The University Council also recommended a further undergraduate  representative,  but the Government believes that having regard to the nature and composition of the Council and its methods of operation, the measures it proposes will provide adequate representation for undergraduate students. 
I do not know what that means really. The Council itself said there should be more undergraduate students on the Council. The Government takes the view that the operations of the Australian National University Council being what they are, whatever that means, there are enough undergraduate representatives now. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that the University of Western Australia has 3 undergraduate members on its Council and that the request of the Australian National University for extra undergraduate representation was because of the conviction of the Council and the administrative staff of the University that this was necessary. 
The Minister must realise that communication between a governing body of a university and its undergraduate body is today a very important feature in university discipline and it is very important that the decisions of the Council of the Australian National University, for instance, be fully understood by the student body. For this reason it is a very good thing that at the meetings of the student body there should be a number of student representatives who are able to explain the decisions of the Council and also to participate in those decisions. 
It is an advantage in the University of Western Australia that this now takes place. My son was the  president  of the undergraduates of the University of Western Australia -  President  of the Guild Council - last year. I know from comments of the Vice-Chancellor how important the university regards its channel of communication with the student body. For the year my son was the only representative on the Senate of the University of Western Australia but the number being enlarged to 3 has improved the situation. I think it is simply a matter of communications. One student member can be singled out as, shall we say, being rather square or conservative or he may not be able to explain the decision of the Council effectively. If there are a number of student representatives it tends to prevent a breakdown of communication between the governing body of the university and the student body. The relationship between the Council and the student body of the Australian National University has been excellent. In the main the whole disciplinary structure at the Australian National University has been very good, as I am sure it has been in the University of Western Australia. Seeing that the Council itself felt that extra undergraduate representation was necessary I can only regret that the Government has rejected the proposal. However, it has made certain changes to the structure of the Council in that the undergraduate representative no longer has to be a graduate of the university. That is good. What is more, the research students' representative does not have to be a graduate of 2 years standing and the age of the student representative on the Council has been reduced to make it realistic that he should be an undergraduate. 
I think it would be a very good thing if the Council of the Australian National University had a representative of external students on it. External students at the Australian National University are a very important group. They are mostly Commonwealth civil servants who are studying for a degree and are very highly motivated towards their studies. It is an interesting feature of universities that external students within the faculties where one can be an external student include some of the very best students. However, because of their struggles to get a university education their results, which in certain cases can be amongst the very best in the university, generally are not up to the average. But some of these students are quite strongly motivated. They tend to be the shadowy figures of the university flitting in and out and yet they are students with special needs. It would be very good for those students to be represented on the Council of the Australian National University. I realise the Council itself did not ask for this and consequently I press it with some diffidence as a personal point of view. I can only say that while in the main I congratulate the Minister on the changes he has made I regret he has not seen lit to accede to the requests of the Council which are based on its experience as a governing body. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Mackellar)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.46 to 8 p.m. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Air a question. Is it a fact that Air Force DC3 aircraft have been sold for about $8,500? Were they airworthy when they were sold and what is it that is required to be done to them that involves an expenditure of $40,000 or $50,000 to make them fit to be given as foreign aid? 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has identified the source of inflation as being in the decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. He mostly concentrated, of course, on the trade unions but the crime of the trade unions is that they have had a successful case before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. What he omitted to say in forecasting that average wages would rise by 9 per cent or 10 per cent and productivity would rise by 2.5 per cent or 2.9 per cent is that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was not dealing in futures but was dealing in the past. It was dealing in past increases in prices and it was belatedly pushing wages up to meet them. The Prime Minister's statement in the House was much less informative and less significant than his statement on television and his statement to the Young Liberals, both dealing with inflation. I am referring to his original statement which we moved be printed. 
There is not much party political mileage to be made out of his statements on inflation - not from his point of view anyway. He cannot, like  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir Arthur  Fadden, represent himself as wrestling homerically with inflation caused by  Mr Chifley  and putting value back into the 1. Incidentally, if we recall that halcyon election and look at the figures given in World Wide Inflation - A Study of the Phenomenon' we will find that in the 4 years after the Chifley Government fell only one country in the world exceeded Australia in inflation and that was Austria which was then crippled by its post-war problems. In the first 4 years of this Government the Australian consumer price index rose by 12.6 per cent, exceeded in the world only by Austria with 14.3 per cent. He has, however, done the next best thing. He has blamed the trade unions and wage rises. This makes him unique among economists and' brings him back to blaming Labor. If a Labor government is in office it causes inflation, though anyone knowing Chifley would know how tightly he set his field against inflation, if I may use a cricketing analogy. If a Labor government is not in office then it is the trade unions at fault, so in or out of power Labor can be blamed. If the Prime Minister wants a united national effort against inflation he would be well advised not to try to wage class war downwards, which was the feature of his speech tonight. 
Let us agree on the fact that in the Aus.ralian economy today the farmer is the hardest hit and we must bend our efforts to ensuring he is not hit mortally. If inflation is a condition of sharply rising prices, there is for certain no inflation in the price of wool, wheat, meat, fruit or vegetables as far as the producer is concerned, although no-one notices a consequent fall in the price of clothing, bread, flour, meat in the cities, fruit in the cities or vegetables in the cities. The farmer sells in a largely free and open market, even internally in Australia, and of course most definitely in the world market. The manufacturer, while paying lip service every federal election to the great doctrines of free enterprise and free competition, spends his time avoiding competition like the plague. It is not merely by tariffs; it is by cartels, agreements and unfair trading practices. We all believe in the socialisation of our losses and the individualisation of our gains. Tariffs for the manufacturer and subsidies for the farmer are alike socialised losses. As a result of Australian business practices a packet of Kellogg's corn flakes costs 46c and contains 3c worth of maize. 
The pace for inflation has been set in one area and can be curbed there. The pace for inflation is set by hire purchase and the structure of finance built on it, and the decision of the Government which excluded the Commonwealth Bank from entering the field of hire purchase lo force down its interest rates and dividends was the key decision in the sometimes creeping and sometimes trotting inflation of the last 20 years. Over the 20 years since 1949 to 1968 Australia has been second in the world in the average rise in the consumer price index. 
And it should be remembered that the Liberals came lo power with slogans of reducing prices and decreasing the size of the civil service by 10,000. When it took office the basic wage was about 6 or S12 a week, lt has quadrupled. The civil service today as a force makes the civil service of Chifley's day look like a Waterloo sized army compared to a Second World War sized army. Concealed or openly, hire purchase dividends can frequently exceed 30 per cent and 40 per cent. This sets the pace. No-one would invest in bousing if its return is significantly lower than the dividend from the field of hire purchase industries. The result is inflated rents and inflated land values. When I was a teacher I earned 580 a year, and I could buy land in Applecross for 45 a building block or 80 a corner block. Peat and Company advertised their land at a definite price. The auctioneering stunt to play young people off against one another had not been developed. This means that I could buy land for my home for one or two months' wages. 
A teacher today in my former position would get $3,500 to $4,000 a year, and would be lucky to get equivalent land for $7,000 or $8,000-2 years' wages. Fortytwo per cent of people within the Fremantle City Council area pay more than half their income in rent. This is the cost to young people of the privileged hire purchase finance, and of the decision by which the action of the Commonwealth Bank within the field of hire purchase was struck down as a weapon of control. In strikes at Kwinana last year it was possible to say that some men were being paid $90 a week. They were mostly migrants. The rent for a caravan to live in was $31 a week - $21 for the caravan and $10 for the pocket handkerchief of land on which a caravan unit stood. Homes rented at much more so that the man on $90 a week was actually in straitened circumstances, and totally deprived of the opportunity to save to buy land or buy a home. These people were mostly migrants who had just come to this country. In other words, skilled migrants are doomed to be rent payers all their lives because their rents will prevent their saving money to be home owners. 
The comments of an economist on the current policy of the Government are worthy of thought. He said: 
The Commonwealth Government is understandably reluctant to restrict the flow of migrants. This however would seem to be a necessary precondition of a disinflationary budget in August 
The present policy is rather like trying to check a galloping horse by pulling on the reins al one end, while continuing to flog him at the other end. 
I would add the comment, by way of illustration, that if the Government brings in 175,000 migrants again it inevitably puts upon the States the duty of making available classroom space and teachers for the children, more hospital accommodation, more housing, more transport. If at the same time it imposes cuts upon the States so that they cannot supply these services it is merely producing a crisis. This is what underlies the comments crf the same economist, who said: 
Notwithstanding the rapid growth in government expenditures on capital projects, the facilities provided in the main centres of population ara failing to keep pace with needs and the Ufa environment of the major cities, far from improving, is deteriorating. 
Recently the N.S.W. Planning Authority estimated that Sydney alone required $700m for water and $l,200m for sewerage. It also said that spending on roads was only about a quarter of what was needed . . . 
The standards of living, considered in narrow terms of consumer expenditure, are improving but the overall quality of life, with which people are becoming increasingly concerned, is declining. 
I suggest, firstly, a drastic revision of migration, with emphasis on skills and quality, not numbers. Secondly, I suggest an end to the privileged position of hire purchase finance and like finance, which has become a major feature of our economy and a great sector of virtually uncontrolled banking with uncontrolled interest rates, and the use of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation as a weapon in this field to bring in and insist upon the social interests instead of the individual interests of the hire purchase sector of the economy. Thirdly, I suggest a request to the States to take strong action on land and housing values, which they can control, and on rents if they show no downward trend. Fourthly, J suggest an endeavour to get a united community effort. The wage efforts of unions follow prices and rents. I warn the Government that it will get nowhere with a policy of an open run for prices and a fixed price for labour. 
If there is any philosophy that is perfectly clear in the Prime Minister's speech today it is that he believes that we should go on having an open slather for prices and controlled wages. In fact he told the arbitration tribunals of this country what they are to do about wages. They are to keep them down. In other words, he believes in no fixed prices of any kind except the price of the commodity labour. He stood in this House tonight and instructed the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that that is the one commodity on sale in this community whose price must be controlled. In theory that is very fine but realistic economists have pointed out that the position that has been reached today is that if you tell the wage earning sector of the community that it must bear the brunt of inflation - the farming community is bearing it now - and that you will do nothing about the level of hire purchase interests which competitively result in dearer land, housing and everything else, since the people have to get the same sort of return they would get from the ice cream sector of the economy, they will not go into the more important ones. If the Government tries to saddle this on one section of the community there will be industrial unrest. I think that the Prime Minister is taking a responsible attitude, if he considers that inflation is a likely feature of the future, in taking some steps to curb it. Nobody could possibly say, however, that S75m in a Budget exceeding $8 billion - less than 1 per cent of the Budget - will have any significant effect on the community. I take it that it is supposed to be the force of example but if the Government's migration policy imposes on the States needs for increased expenditures they will not be able to follow his great example. I wish the Prime Minister well in trying to lead the whole community as a united community to deal with the problem of a potential inflation. But I am concerned that he says nothing about the farmers, whom nobody could possibly accuse of being responsible for inflation and whose prices are not inflated. He says quite clearly that, as far as his disposition of mind is concerned, he will single out one section of the community only for attack, and that is the wage earning section. I would like to hear him speak about hire purchase, fringe finance and a few other things in these fields and hear what he proposes to do about them, because when he tackles every sector of inflation he is likely to get a united community. 
I second the motion. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  invited the Australian Labor Party to consider the attitude of James Henry Scullin at the time of the fall of William Morris Hughes. At the time of the fall of William Morris Hughes the Leader of the Australian Labor Party was Mathew Charlton. He invited us to consider that after  Mr Alan  Ramsey had sent his apology into the House the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  moved that he be called before the Bar of the House. If the Prime Minister takes the trouble to look at the Hansard record he will see that the Leader of the Opposition had spoken and moved his motion before  Mr Alan  Ramsey's apology came into the House. 
I have 2 convictions about the situation of the nation. The first is that the wealth of Australia should be developed for the benefit of the nation and not looted in a stock exchange bonanza. The major purpose in national development is that Australia should contribute to creating a sane world, and that Australia should contribute much more significantly to this by assisting other nations more than it has up to the present time. Both the former Prime Minister and the former Minister for Defence were men who had a potential of compassion and a breadth of vision who could have played a part together in achieving this, but not if they were pulling apart. No doubt they could still contribute to it together. The issue between them is really very, very small. 
The second conviction is that the main force playing upon the Government at the present time is that force of which the Press proprietors are the spearheads.  This  is the force which demands government of the people by administrators heavily emphasising the interests of business and the investor, for the advancement of business and the wealthy. Queensland's minerals have become a focal point of this strategy. To Queensland next week the Prime Minister will go. There is no doubt about the character of the Queensland Government as a business agent, above all a foreign business agent, ft is handing 1,000 million tons of Australian coal to a foreign consortium at a miserable royalty of 5c a ton. The factor which made for the destruction of the former Prime Minister more than any other factor was that he was not a safe man from the point of view of the stock exchange, business, Press proprietor, power complex. He set up the Australian Industry Development Corporation. He instructed his Ministers to refuse the massive bribe of Comalco shares. He suggested there was a public interest in the development of the continental shelf and appeared to be against the greedy looting and destruction of its resources. He consented to set up a Senate committee to investigate the state of ethics and procedures of the stock exchanges, a state of ethics and procedures deplored around the world. He made sympathetic references to the curing of poverty as an objective of government. 
The former Prime Minister refused to be a Packer Prime Minister of Australia. Ever since he attained power in the Liberal Party and Packer's man Alan Reid wrote the book against his attainment of power he has been a Packer target. To  Sir Frank  Packer the Government of the Commonwealth is another one of his personally owned projects, like the yachts 'Gretel' or Dame Pattie' in the fight for the Americas Cup. The former Prime Minister also stopped the foreign takeover of the Mutual Life and Citizens' Assurance Co. Ltd. He stopped the takeover of Nabarlek uranium. He laid down guidelines for foreign investment in Australia. This was perhaps not the sum total of his crimes. The former Prime Minister was not destroyed for those respects in which his thinking was against the public interest but for those respects in which his thinking was for the public interest. According to Laurie Oakes, one of the most honourable and perceptive of journalists, his other major sin was that he came from the wrong side of the tracks. He was not a born to rule true blue Liberal. Whatever the new Prime Minister becomes is a matter of his own decisions but his Press backers have a motive. The new Prime Minister was installed to serve the interests represented by the stock exchange, the developers, business and the Press magnates. There are men in this House who have made $2m in an afternoon on the stock exchange ?nd who join in lecturing trade unionists on the need to have respect to productivity and to seek in wages only what they earn. 
On Thursday last, competitive claims to own the Commonwealth Government were lodged by a breathtaking leading article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' and by the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph*. They must not quarrel. The forces behind both of them have a very good chance of owning the Government and they have a flying start in that the Liberal Party wilted under their pressure to eject one nian and install another. This event is of enormous significance because it means that having tasted power the forces which overthrew the former Prime Minister have been encouraged to go from strength to strength and from domination to domination. In the last week we have seen a Prime Minister destroyed in a Press campaign of unprecedented power, lt was unanimous in the direction of its hostility and co-ordinated between the major daily newspapers. It was brilliantly written. Obviously the best journalists were enlisted. It was ostensibly occasioned by the resignation of the then Minister for Defence and by the public statements of the then Minister for Defence that the then Prime Minister had been disloyal to him. 
It is impossible to see in the speech of the former Minister for Defence any substantial ground against the former Prime Minister. The former Minister for Defence, now the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his speech leaves the House confused as to what parts of  Mr Peter  Samuel's article in the Sydney Bulletin' of 6th March actually came from the former Minister's briefing and what parts did not. In the 'Bulletin' of 13th March, Peter Samuel accuses the former Minister for Defence of denying parts of the article which the Minister had given to him. There is also owing to the House a full explanation of the references of the honourable member for Wannon to the Pacific Islands Regiment. The House should be told all the facts about the 'Bulletin' articles. It is possible that the revelation of Cabinet proceedings concerning the Pacific Islands Regiment made in the speech of the honourable member for Wannon last week is a violation of his ministerial oath. There are also suggestions which have appeared in the Press that the account of the Cabinet proceedings by the former Minister is a partisan selection of the facts. 
The Labor Party feels that there are 2 considerations more fundamental than whether the former Prime Minister observed the correct legal forms in relation to the Governor-General in calling out the Pacific Islands Regiment, though it does not dispute the significance of that. The Labor Party did not believe at the time of the crisis that troops should be used in the Gazelle Peninsula and in the final analysis they were not. The Pacific Islands Regiment is not trained to deal with riots, its soldiers are not trained to ignore provocation, as are police, and if they opened fire there could be a massacre. Even more essential is it that the land grievance in the Gazelle Peninsula should be ended. France, 3 years before quitting Madagascar, bought out expatriate landowners. The land of French settlers had ceased to be a native grievance at the time of independence. The same might well be done in the Gazelle Peninsula. 
It is obvious that the destruction of John Grey Gorton was planned by Press proprietors, not by working journalists. There is a legitimate power of the Press. The legitimate power is not exercised by setting out to destroy one individual by a biased selection of facts, as was done to the former Prime Minister. Nor is that legitimate power exercised by setting out to build up an individual by glamourising him and romancing about him. The power of the Press would legitimately be exercised in maintaining standards of government. This the Press proprietors do not seem to contemplate. So long as the politician is broadly in sympathy with the same great stock exchange manoeuvres and mineral exploitation considerations as the Press proprietors themselves, the Press proprietors have nothing critical to say. Still less are they likely to mount a hostile compaign. At the time Comalco offered premium shares to people in public life, which the then State Premiers apparently grabbed with both hands, it was obvious that what was taking place was a most sinister effort to make politicians, Ministers, newspaper proprietors and civic leaders compliant to overseas interests and to general mining interests. An exposure of this appears in today's Financial Review'. This debasement of public life was not criticised by most papers and the then State Premiers apparently took their premium shares and put themselves in moral debt to powerful foreign interests. The former Prime Minister instructed his Ministers not to touch the Comalco shares. He was odd man out.  His  stand rebuked everybody else and threw light on the emergence in Australia of the same form of greed, corruption and servility which has at times been a characteristic of State politics in the United States of America. 
Nobody is asked to be a Minister of the Crown. If someone becomes a Minister he is wholly committed to the public interest. There is a need for the restoration of the healthy British convention that Ministers of the Crown sell their shares and resign their company directorships on assuming office. Insofar as the former Prime Minister refused his Comalco pacifier and the Press magnates grabbed theirs, he obviously became a target. He also sponsored a Senate committee to examine the apparently low standard of ethics and procedures of the Australian stock exchange. The former Prime Minister established the Australian Industries Development Corporation which potentially intruded a public interest into the vast bonanza of Australian minerals. He removed the present Prime Minister from the Treasury. All Australian businessmen agree that the present Prime Minister was a great Treasurer. 
Recently in a 12 page supplement the London 'Times' assessed the Australia created by the Treasurer's policy, it said that in Australia the rich were very rich and the poor were very poor; the distribution of wealth in Australia was amongst the most inequitable in the civilised world; nearly one million people lived close to the poverty line; there was no excuse for poverty in such a potentially rich country but it existed to an alarming degree. The London Times' pointed out that in 1968- 69 social service payments represented only 5.5 per cent of the gross national product. 
Perhaps it is a leak from a British Minister to the London Times'. Australia's percentage of its gross national product applied to social services had dropped by 0.4 per cent in the past 10 years - Treasury work by the present Prime Minister. The London Times' comments that the latest available table of world figures is a sorry indictment of Australia's policy towards social services. We have heard the gesture of repentance which, most incongruously, has been announced in the middle of a censure debate by the Prime Minister. Expressed as percentages of the gross national product the expenditure of various nations on social services is as follows: The nations of the European Economic Community spend J 5.2 per cent of their gross national product on social services, Scandinavia 10.9 per cent, Canada 9.9 per cent, Britain 8.6 per cent, Switzerland 8.2 per cent. New Zealand 6.6 per cent, the United States 5.9 per cent and Australia 5.5 per cent. The Treasury policy under McMahonism was obviously very good for the rich with no irritating emphasis on social services in relation to the great wealth of the country expressed in terms of the gross national product. 
The former Prime Minister began to make sympathetic noises about poverty and the case against him I have mentioned had begun to be made by the Press king makers. There were no Comalco bribes in his philosophy; he investigated the stock exchange. I need hardly reiterate all the points. The Prime Minister's proposed mission to Queensland interests me. The Leader of the Opposition spoke about the Queensland Government's policy on Abor iginals. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  made statements concerning Queensland's policies to the effect that the Commonwealth would have to exercise its new constitutional, powers gained in May 1967 if nothing was done to rectify those policies. The former Prime Minister backed him and he dared to start talking about removing powers, such as those relating to Aboriginals from the businessservile government of Queensland where, according to the Medical Journal of Australia, hundreds of Aboriginal children on government settlements showed 3 years retarded growth when 6 years of age, shrunken brains and permanently damaged mental skills, while poorer mission stations in Queensland can totally eliminate these tragedies. Of the 2,000 odd children who were examined 50 per cent suffered from these things, and practically all of that 50 per cent were on government settlements and not on the missions which were much poorer but which had the intelligence to feed protein supplements to the Aboriginal children. To come to the rescue of State rights against Federal intrusion in this case would be a betrayal of the Aboriginal people of Queensland. 
Powerful forces support Bjelke-Petersen and the mineral exploring rights he gives to his own companies. After all, he supports all the interests that the Press magnates support and his income tax affair of several years past has not been reported in the Queensland Press. The crowning treachery of the former Prime Minister to the Establishment was his support for the establishment of the Australian Industries Development Corporation. 
Stanley Baldwin, one-time British Prime Minister, was the target of a co-ordinated attack by Beaverbrook, Rothermere and Northcliffe, Press magnates who were raised to the peerage as barons, hence the origins of the designation, now traditional in London, 'the Press barons'. Baldwin summed up their aim by saying: 'What these magnates want is power without responsibility, the prerogative of the harlot throughout the ages'. The former Prime Minister became Prime Minister by an electoral process in 1969. The present Prime Minister is Prime Minister as the result of a co-ordinated campaign mounted originally by  Sir Frank  Packer. 
I turn now, in my last few minutes, to the 'Bulletin'. We were informed by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the former Minister for Defence, that he gave a briefing to the journalist Peter Samuel and that this briefing appeared in some form in the Packer weekly the 'Bulletin' on 6th March. In that issue  we  learn from  Mr Peter  Samuel that the Australian Army in Vietnam is in revolt. We learn from  Mr Samuel  that the task force in Vietnam has on a number of occasions gone its own way. He alleges that it failed to consult Ministers about major changes in policy. We learn that it pulled the wool over  Mr Frasers  eyes  when  he was Minister for the Army. Samuel alleges that the Army leadership resisted civic action though civic action was Cabinet policy. He asserts that major elements of the task force were out of the province they were assigned to defend and that the next year, as a consequence, many men were killed unnecessarily in the minefields. He summed up his article with two devastating sentences which must necessarily have forced the former Prime Minister to object, unless an indictment of the Government is to be accepted as a truthful statement. Samuel wrote: 
Perhaps again the Army is nol completely to blame because Ministers have sometimes evinced little interest in what their soldiers were doing in  Vietnam.  If Ministers don't take much interest, the soldiers cnn hardly bc blamed for making many of the decisions themselves. 
How much of this is the result of the briefing? If this is genuinely the view of the former Minister for Defence, then the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  is declared to be criminally remiss, and the entire Cainet is responsible for putting armed forces into Vietnam and losing interest in them. It is hard to believe that the former Minister for Defence said this, but on 13th March Peter Samuel wrote another article in which he alleges that the former Minister for Defence asked if he would deny having received a briefing. He further asserts that the former Minister for Defence issued a statement which 'denied the truth of statements that  Mr Fraser  had in fact given to  Mr Samuel'.  This set off the chain of events which destroyed the former Prime Minister. The interesting thing is that nowhere does  Mr Samuel  refer to  Mr Gorton.  He refers only to  Mr 
Fraser. The initial Press crisis is one in which the former Prime Minister, like the flowers that bloom in the spring, has nothing to do with the case. The tragedy is that the former Minister for Defence, whom 1 respect greatly, trapped himself. He gave a briefing to Peter Samuel and put himself at Peter Samuel's mercy. According to Peter Samuel, Samuel was given a tour of the Russell Hill Defence complex, inevitably meaning that he was the favoured envoy of the Minister. I am sure that the former Minister for Defence must recognise that the former Prime Minister was put into an intolerable position by the 'Bulletin' article. If the Army leadership believed that the article was inspired by the Minister, their position was intolerable. As things stand, the Australian people have been suddenly given a Prime Minister who has never presented himself to them for election in that role. One whom they elected has been cut down. It is clearly their right to pronounce on these extraordinary events - this government of the country by Press campaigns; this control of political parties by the intimidation of powerful interests. 
1 ask the AttorneyGeneral: Has the Canberra Police Force an adequate detective and homicide arm to deal with such a case as the disappearance of Miss Keren Rowland on 26th February? Has outside assistance been obtained in this case? Is there a Canberra force for tracking missing persons in open country, such as police trackers and police using bloodhounds? 
by leave - The Opposition welcomes the tabling of this report. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  was gracious enough to send a copy to us early this morning, and some study of its contents has been possible. I do not want to comment at length on the suggestions for teaching Asian culture in primary schools and secondary schools in Australia. I think that the suggestions that are made are admirable. But I do want to speak about the teaching of Asian languages. On page 69 of the report. There is a table which sets out the numbers of students in teachers' colleges who have completed preparation for the teaching of Asian languages. One finds the most extraordinary disparity between the States. Over the last 4 years South Australia has had 95 teachers qualified in Indonesian and Malayan; Western Australia has had only 1 but it has had 3 qualified in Japanese; Tasmania has had only 1; and Victoria has had 10 qualified in Japanese and 3 in Chinese. It is very clear that these numbers are inadequate. 
Significantly, in another part of the report it is pointed out that where an institute of modern languages has been developed by a university, such as the University of Queensland, only 20 per cent of its students come from within the University and 80 per cent come from outside the University. So it is in fact a form of adult education. This shows us very clearly that the teaching of Asian languages should most decidedly not be confined to universities. The armed services need crash courses in oriental languages. The Royal Australian Air Force has such a course at Point Cook where oriental languages are taught. Many other departments of the Commonwealth Government - for example, the Department of Foreign Affairs - and of the State governments have a need for people trained in oriental languages. If the other recommendation of the Committee, the teaching of oriental languages at the secondary level in schools is to be attained then somewhere there must be an intensified training of the people who are to teach these oriental languages. 
The suggestion elsewhere in the report about the establishment of a national school of languages, which I would hope would be in Canberra, is of urgent priority. It could be associated with the Australian National University, but the conditions of university entry should not be imposed on people who are going to study languages. After all, it has no necessary connection with all the rest of the qualifications that are required for entry to a university. People who have never matriculated may be able to study languages. I repeat that it is not a necessary function of a university but a national school of languages is absolutely vital. It is vital for the whole of our secondary level of education. It could provide a service for all the State Education Departments and all sorts of private educational institutions. It is vital for departments like the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
This report has been a long time in coming down and a long time in getting the comments of the States. The Opposition suggests that the establishment of this national school of languages is of urgent priority and that it should be commenced some time within the next 12 months. For the rest, we welcome the report very much indeed. 
I ask the Minister for the Interior a question based on the disappearance of Miss Keren Rowland some weeks ago in Canberra when apparently she Left her car and locked it because it had run out of petrol and then was never seen again. I ask the honourable gentleman: Do the Canberra police suspect murder in this case? Have they adequate homicide forces to continue a determined investigation of this case, and do they receive outside assistance? Finally, is the case still being investigated by them? 
No magical results will follow from either the recognition or the non-recognition of Communist China. The United States had no magical achievements from not recognising China, and the United Kingdom had no magical achievements from recognising China. What must be discussed now is a question of common sense, not in a field of exaggeration to make recognition non-recognition one of the great issues of foreign policy. There are two doctrines of recognition. One was laid down by a very great British Prime Minister and Foreign 
Minister, George Canning. It was that you recognised a fact; you recognised a government which was actually in control of territory; you recognised a government which could protect your nationals; you recognised a government which paid its debts; and you recognised a government with which you traded. In pursuit of the classic Canning definition of recognition, Britain recognised Red China. 
But there is another doctrine of recognition, sometimes used by Britain very effectively, and that is that recognition is an ideological weapon to produce a change in fact. The Polish Government in exile in London during the war, the Free Fench in London during the war, Queen Wilhelmina of Holland and her government in London during the war, the Norwegian government in London during the war, from the point of view of Canning's doctrine, were all absurdities. They were cabinets without nations. But they in fact had the allegiance of millions of people in Nazi-occupied Europe, and when the time came for the invasion the people rose to support their governments. That was recognition used as an ideological weapon. 
The United States believed initially that by recognising the Government of the Republic of China, which is now on Taiwan, it could have the ideological advantage of a transformation within China. Indeed, the great majority of prisoners of war taken during the Korean War opted to go to Taiwan and not to go into the authority of the Peking Government, which at that stage of time appeared to indicate that there was still a great deal of allegiance towards the government of Taiwan. Very few people believe today that Chiang Kai-shek, if he managed to land in China, would be hailed as a liberator. Honourable members opposite can make all these lurid statements about people in their attitude to the recognition of Red China or trade with it. I remember the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes saying that the money in the pockets of the Country Party was stained with the blood of peasants in Tibet. That is how he regarded your wheat trade with China. He was perfectly consistent in that - you did not recognise and you did not trade. That was America's policy - you did not recognise and you did not trade. Australia's policy was that you did not recognise and you did trade. What is more, you sent strategic materials to China, too, and you sent from the beaches of Bunbury in Western Australia some of the most vital metals that are used to make engines resistant to heat - essential in jet aircraft and essential in rockets. So your trade was not just in wheat. But we will leave that aside. 
There is no such thing as saying that you. are going to eject the government on Taiwan from the United Nations because the United Nations does not know any government of Taiwan. The government which is on Taiwan is known as the Government of China. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in all his evasions today cannot escape the fact that those who recognise the government on Taiwan recognise it not as the government of Taiwan but as the government of mainland China. Let us face the fact that both Chiang Kai-shek and the Chinese Communists claim Tibet. Both Chiang Kai-shek and the Chinese Communists claim some of the disputed border territories. But Chiang Kai-shek has denounced the Chinese Communists for ceding territory to Burma. We had a lecture, a discussion, on one occasion from a diplomat from the country concerned, who told us of the great numbers of Chinese troops in the north of Laos who periodically despoiled villages to get supplies - and they were not Chinese Communist troops; they were the troops of Chiang Kai-shek who maraud and depredate in the north of Laos and also in the north of Burma today. 
I do not want to get into a state of denouncing anybody. We are all selectively indignant; we are all selectively hypocrites. The Government of Pakistan is carrying out in East Pakistan atrocities equal to or beyond any atrocities ever committed by a Communist government, and nothing is said about it. One of the biggest girls schools was surrounded, set on fire, and as the girls came out they were mowed down with machine guns. I was in Dacca in 1954 when the West Pakistan Army came in and overthrew the government of East Pakistan in East Bengal. I was the guest at afternoon tea of Iskander Mersa, who was the general in command, and I was also the guest at morning tea of the displaced Chief Minister. You could see quite palpably that the people of West Pakistan and 
East Pakistan are not the same race. The people of West Pakistan are the decendants of the Arabic Persian conquerors and the people of East Pakistan are black and they are regarded as inferior. 
The situation is a colonial situation. You say that Pakistan is fully entitled to try to re-establish its authority over East Bengal, over East Pakistan. East Pakistan showed in an election that Sheik Mujibir could get 167 seats out of 169. That overwhelming victory would have given him a majority of government in West Pakistan. That was why the democratic procedure was finished. It would have meant East Pakistan domination of West Pakistan, and that was not tolerable. The 2 Pakistans, separated by a thousand miles of Indian territory, speak different languages, have different cultures, and have nothing in common except the Islamic faith. If Pakistan is entitled to try to re-establish her authority under those circumstances, then North Vietnam would be entitled to try to re-establish its authority over South Vietnam - the same language and contiguous territories. But we are selectively indignant. We do not want it in the case of North Vietnam, unjustified or justified as it may be; we do not mind it in the case of Pakistan, justified or unjustified as it may be. We have just made a choice, but for God's sake do not pretend that it rests on any moral basis. It is a choice that rests in terms of sheer power. 
I think it is time that we stopped talking rot about China. Why did. General de Gaulle change his attitude on China? It is not a question of holding up bogies; it is a question of rational analysis, The Russian Ambassador took one look at this country a couple of years ago and said: 'Racists'. He said: 'Good. The Soviet Union will work with you to prevent the Chinese thrust south'. And poor Freeth fell over himself to agree. If China were . thrusting south the Soviet Union would be supporting her. The Soviet Union's objection to China was that China was raising the question of the 600,000 square miles of Chinese territory annexed by the czars after 1858 and was raising the kind of ideological issues which are a potential dissolvent of the Soviet Union, whether Georgians, Ukranians or others would continue or wish to continue to be subordinate to the White Russians in what is a vast colonial empire of the Soviet Union. The revolutionary anti-colonialist principles of China are a potential dissolvent of the Soviet Union, and the Soviet Union has 3 million troops along the borders of China. 
De Gaulle realised that if the Soviet Union could get rid of this Chinese distraction nothing would stop her from occupying with the greatest of ease Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and Romania - all Communist countries. But she cannot get a foreign policy out of Communist countries that she wants unless she occupies them. She would never get the foreign policy she wanted out of Poland if Russian troops were not stationed there, nor out - of Czechoslovakia, nor out of Hungary, nor out of Herr Ulbricht in East Germany. Therefore, she follows the old Czarist policy of putting in troops as assurance. But De Gaulle realised that at worst the Chinese distraction could be a factor in .war against a successful Russian thrust right through to the Channel Ports and at best in normal times stop the enormous increase in Russian pressure power on Europe if she occupied the other Communist countries. 
Without the Chinese distraction what has Russia got? She has got the power to put enormous pressure on Europe - that is westward - or, by swinging the pendulum south to put it on India, or, by swinging i! east to put it on Japan. Whether we like Mao Tse-tung or not, a lot of people who have not the slightest sympathy with his regime would prefer Mao if he is not subordinate to the Soviet Union than Liu Shao-chi if he was prepared to go into unity with the Soviet Union. We do no! even begin to assess Chinese policy, and the ridiculous debates in this House because the Government can get the preferences of the Democratic Labor Party by yak-yak-yak about Red China are a disgrace to this Parliament and would be unacceptable in a high school. The whole position of Communist China is not analysed. If Communist China was purely interested in nationalist issues why does it not occupy Hong Kong and Macao? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I ask your protection from the Minister for Repatriation. He is just calling personal abuse at me. He is not answering my arguments. And, what is more, he is not sober. 
1 withdraw it and I also ask the Minister to withdraw the names he has been calling me. 
As far as 1 know, until this year there have been no allegations about initiation ceremonies at HMAS 'Leeuwin'. I never heard of any. A large number of people in Fremantle take junior recruits into their homes on Sundays or at weekends. This is a scheme initiated by the college authorites. These students speak to hundreds of Western Australian families about their lives. I am not going to say that initiation ceremonies have not started or that this case was not one of an initiation ceremony. All I want to say is that I have taken some interest in HMAS 'Leeuwin' and frequently have conversations with junior  cadets, and I have not heard of initiation ceremonies. 
However, the case presented to the Press by  Mrs Connolly  is very detailed and it touches on letters to her over a period of time which say that the boy involved was being pursued for initiation and then finally, apparently, was caught for initiation. The description given by the cadet seems to be an extremely serious case of bullying.  His  description relates to a punch-up by, I think, from what she alleges, 7 boys who took it in turns. He had to fight each, one after the other, and they were fresh when he was not. If that is so, it is an extremely serious case. 
I noticed the assurance given by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr. Mackay).  1 am not quite sure whether one can compare this case with the water torture case. The unsatisfactory feature of the water torture case was the tendency on the part of the Government to say: 'It never happened and besides, she deserved it'. If you look back at the debates on that matter you will find that what Government speakers said was the equivalent of Billy Bunter saying: T never stole the pudding and besides the currants were rotten*. That was never convincingly explained in the House. I note the Minister's assurance that there will be a thorough inquiry into this matter. I believe there will be. I also believe, to be honest, that the college authorities would not want this sort of thing to happen. 1 think they are pretty jealous for the good reputation of the place. There are hundreds of teenage boys at the college. I suppose there have been thousands of teenage boys in the Fremantle naval establishment over the years, but there have been very rare disciplinary problems. I can remember only one serious brawl outside the college in which, it was alleged, junior ratings were involved. That was in the case of the kicking of a musician. But I believe that their discipline and behaviour around Fremantle has been quite outstanding. The institution is a respected one, which speaks pretty highly of the morale of the officers who are in charge of it and the influence that they have on the junior recruits. If anything has, slipped, I am grateful for the assurance that the Minister is giving. 
The 2 Bills before us, the States Grants (Preschool Teachers Colleges) Bill, which amends the 1968 Act and the States 
Grants (Technical Training) Bill are both important pieces of legislation. The preschool measure is very simple. It extends the period in which money may be spent - money which has already been granted by this House to the States for pre-school teachers colleges. Where the buildings had to be completed by 30th June this year they are given an extension of time to 31st December 1972. This is not a tremendous issue to discuss. Certain pr-school authorities have not been able to carry through their building programmes within the time originally specified. 1 only want to make this passing remark: The Commonwealth and the States have never been seized with the importance of pre-school education, excepting where there is an articulate population and, in the Commonwealth case, excepting in its own Territories. Yet this subject now has a long history. The Commonwealth originally set up the Lady Gowrie child centres on very generous lines - generous, at any rate, for the days when they were set up - and the theory was to say to the States: 'Well, there they are. Go thou and do likewise'. Of course, the States did not have the money to go and do likewise so the Lady Gowrie centres simply stayed as examples that were not followed. We also have in the Australian Capital Territory a structure of preschool education which by Australian standards is quite outstanding but the States have never been able to imitate it. 
We have a limited Commonwealth intervention in this field in the kind of legislation which is now before us, and that limited intervention is to assist in the capital cost of setting up training colleges for pre-school teachers. It is the belief of the Opposition that the Commonwealth has to come in to reinforce the States to establish a pre-school system of education. It is quite clear in the Northern Territory, for instance, that where we have pre-school centres they are extremely important in that children of the Aboriginal race and children of European race mix together and have a social association, and for children of the Aboriginal race who are coming in as fringe dwellers they are a very important introduction to the sort of new way of life that they an following. This has been a Cinderella of Australian education. Only middle class areas have been fully aware of bow important psychologically pre-school centres are for children in their whole life development. We hope that this type of legislation will be a precursor of Commonwealth intervention in this field and the platform of the Australian Labor Party provides for the setting up of a pre-school education commission to be radar, as it were, to guide Commonwealth action in the development of preschool facilities. 
The other measure, the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill, is interesting. This increases the expenditure of the Commonwealth in assisting the States in the establishment of technical colleges from $30m in a triennium to $36m in a triennium or $12m a year instead of $10m a year. It is doubtful whether the increase from $30m to $36m for the triennium does very much more than offset the trend of inflation. It is not likely that the States will be able to buy much more in the way of buildings in this triennium than they did in the last triennium. It is not likely that $36m will go any further in the coming triennium than S30m did in the last, yet it is to be welcomed because it will create further technical facilities. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  foresees that the legislation will assist the States to meet: 
. likely increased pressures on technical training facilities arising from demands of such schemes as retraining of married women and retraining of farmers displaced under the rural reconstruction scheme and from the public service and industry for higher technician courses . . . 
I am afraid Australia needs a much greater expenditure and effort directed to technical education to give the Australian labor force the skill and flexibility it requires. We have in this country very much followed the English tradition of education and not the Scottish tradition, and this has been our disaster. I remember going to Dunedin, which is a Scottish foundation in New Zealand. Founded, I think, in about 1851 it had Otago Boys High School, the Otago Girls High School and the University of Otago by 1862, all in a period of 11 years. Western Australia, a very typical Anglican foundation in 1829, did not get Perth Modern School till 1911 and did not get the University of Western Australia till 1913, a time lapse of 82 and 84 years. I am afraid Cromwell, with his ideas on education and his structure of universities which anticipated what 
Britain did not do till the 1950s, gave the Anglican establishment such a fright that they decided education was a matter for elites whereas Scotland, where the Puritans triumphed, had massive compulsory education about 250 years before England did. We have tended to follow the clerk's education. The great desideratum in our high schools was the Eton-Harrow sort of education of England rather than that of Scotland so it became customary on English ships if one wanted to speak to the ship's engineer - or to any engineer - merely to bellow 'Mac' down the ship's hold and one knew one had the engineer because technical education was very much a Scottish monopoly. 
Starting with compulsory education early the Scots broadened it. The original Puritans wanted everybody to have an education so they could all read the Bible. After the King and the Church had been subject to the New Model Army they did not want literate lower order men. Seriously, this is a tradition. I think that the lack of technical education in the United Kingdom, or its late development, steadily dragged Britain back after 1851. The Great Exhibition of 1851 was a high water mark. After that one could say Germany and everybody else eclipsed England in technical education. This was concealed because Britain had a great overseas empire from which there was an inflow of dividends and this cushioned the steady decline in English earning capacity. A brilliant book is out which consists of a whole series of quotations which one would think were a current commentary on England, such as the Consul in Switzerland reporting that 3,000 salesmen from Germany and other countries had gone through the country selling goods but only 28 salesmen had come from Britain and none could speak the languages. They did not present their goods showing the correct decimal weights and measures. They insisted on presenting things with their own unintelligible English weights and measures and constantly goods produced in Britain were not delivered on time. One was quite astonished to read that this was the report of the consuls in the year 1880. One would think it was the current lament of the 1970s. 
There has not been, I might say, the respect for technical education in the 
English system of education and that carried out to Australia that there was in the Scottish system, and I think that it has seriously affected everything. It has seriously affected the skills of trade unionists, but more importantly it has seriously affected the skills of management. We think that if a person goes to Scotch College or to Wesley College he can automatically be an employer and manage a business. That illusion does not exist in the United States of America or in many other countries. They believe in the technical education of their managerial groups and they believe also in very advanced business education, which is just beginning to dawn on us. 
The important point in the Minister's speech is this question of using technical education as a device for increasing the mobility of the work force - the transferability of the work force from one occupation to another. He specifies married women and farmers. Capital has quick silver mobility. It goes towards one particular industry or towards another industry, according to the decision to invest. But labour does not have quick silver mobility. If a man has been trained in one occupation in an industry and he lives in a house in a certain district and if that industry falls through, he has not got the mobility of the decision to invest, which is just a monetary flash if you like. If capital moves on quick silver mobility, labour moves on leaden feet. Retraining ought to be a very great part of our whole industrial planning and not, as it is with us today, an afterthought. The concepts of technical efficiency and managerial skill in Australia leave very much to be desired. There is a need for the constant retraining of the work force. There is a need for more training in business management. 
I welcome in this legislation the provision that a residential college should be attached to technical schools. This is very important. We have always thought of residential colleges attached to universities and of hostels attached to high schools. We have been late in thinking of residential colleges attached to technical schools. The fact that one of the States is to receive a grant of $500,000 with which to provide such a facility is a very important step in the upgrading of technical education. Britain has now perceived the need for a much more technically efficient population than she has had in the past. She was screened from this need by the flow of dividends in from overseas, which compensated for the failure of sales or her failure to retain her immense industrial supremacy of one phase of history. 
I think that we also are screened from the need for technical efficiency by the fact that our country is a marvellous quarry. We are being screened from all sorts of painful readjustments by the discovery of minerals. But the day will come when we will depend upon the technical efficiency of our population to produce goods for export. I hope the day will come when we will be far more seized of the need to process the minerals that we have. Then the question of technical education will be even more important. The Commonwealth's action in technical education and in inspiring the States to be more dynamic in technical education should be more extensive than it is, and I hope that in this field we will move increasingly away from the idea of matching grants and have a strong Commonwealth initiative, fostering technical education where the Commonwealth can see needs, even if the States cannot see them. 
I ask the Minister for External Territories a question. Is the Ministerial Member who is in charge of immigration and emigration in Papua New Guinea empowered, on his own authority, to deport persons in the Territory and to refuse entry permits to persons wishing to come into the Territory? 
The Papua New Guinea Bill 1971 and the ministerial statement entitled Papua New Guinea: Constitutional Development both arise from the report of the House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea wherein it recommended certain constitutional changes for its own country. Summarising those recommendations, the report recommended that there be 18 persons elected by the people to represent regional electorates. The Australian Labor Party proposes to oppose in the Committee stage clause 3 (c) of the Bill which perpetuates the system of regional electorates. The report also recommended an increase in the number of members representing open electorates from 69 to 82. It recommended 3 nominated members, nominated by the House of Assembly, and also 4 official members. In its recommendation that 100 members be elected by the people, it has reached the point that the Labor Party was suggesting when earlier legislation was before the House. The Opposition believes, however, that the country should now be divided into at least 100 constituencies, that they should be open electorates and that this would be a desirable form for the House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea. 
There is no doubt that the changed attitude of the House of Assembly on the prospects of earlier internal self-government than was originally anticipated is part of the fallout from the visit of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and his party to Papua New Guinea in January 1970. This had the very salutary effect of ending the sense of infinite leisure with which, in a world of very intense pressures, the whole approach was being made to the development of self-government and ultimately independence. 
It was a powerful intrusion of outside thinking. Expatriate thinking in Papua New Guinea is very isolated. It was quite pathetic that some of the most prominent expatriate figures in Papua New Guinea could go down to greet the mission sent by the United Nations, to thunder at it as if they could expunge the attitude of the outside world on the United Nations and stand there and say to the United Nations mission: 'What has the United Nations done for Papua New Guinea?' The United Nations conferred the trust on Australia just as the League of Nations originally conferred the mandate. Then, the trustee or mandatory power assumed the full responsibility. One would have thought that these people would have known that in Papua New Guinea. 
My sympathies have been with the first post-war Minister for External Territories,  Mr Ward,  then  Mr Hasluck  - as he was - and now the present Minister,  Mr Barnes,  in trying to make good the years that the locust has eaten in Papua New Guinea. There is no doubt, looking back through the years between 1919 and 1939, when we smugly talked about the Papuan achievement, that Australia's performance was pathetic. It was pathetic in education. Nothing was done to develop any form of selfgovernment of any significance. Honourable members can look back on the absurdities of the Rabaul strike of 1929 and see that at large meetings of expatriates the death penalty was demanded for a 1-day strike. That is the situation from which we have come. Of course, this is enlightened. We find it very hard to accept the view that we have had nothing but a typical colonial history until very recent times in Papua New Guinea. 1 say that the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development ran away from two vital issues. The Committee danced away from the fact that of its own knowledge it knew that the island of Bougainville wants secession, and it flinched from the desire of the Gazelle Peninsula for autonomy. I am not saying that those desires are right. I leave that question to one side. I am saying that we will not be able to ignore these attitudes. I believe that if Papua New Guinea goes into independence with the situation in the Gazelle as it is now, it will be a tragedy. I believe that, if we want to assist Papua New Guinea towards being a viable and stable democracy, we should get rid of some of these burning land questions that worry the people. The point about the land situation in Papua New Guinea is that it simply conforms to a rather typical colonial pattern. I will always thank God for  Sir Paul  Hasluck for one reason: Like prising barnacles off the bottom of a boat he prised the Returned Services League from its belief that Papua New Guinea was a field for Australian soldier settlement. 
We are simply incapable of understanding the incredible arrogance of the outlook that was taken as a matter of course in Australia that somebody else's country should be a sphere for our soldier settlement. That attitude disappeared in 1952. But these land questions are dangerous. The history of European clashes with native peoples is the history of the land grab. This was officially ignored in the debates in the House of Representatives over the acquisition of the copper bearing lands at Bougainville. It is ignored in debates on the Mataungan affair. It is ignored in the superficial and unreal report of the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development on the troubles at the Gazelle Peninsula in violence against the introduction of the multi-racial council. 
The concentration of attention was happily, hypocritically, safely and selfrighteously on those who broke the law, skilfully skirting the question of the justice of the laws being imposed. The real issue was the white man's law of land taking. In Bougainville it was the issue of the power of the Administration to take over forcibly mineral bearing land on its own indefensible terms. In Gazelle the problem is the legacy of the sovereign acts by which successively the Germans, then the custodian of enemy property, and then Australians gained hold of native land. It was a question of whether the multi-racial council's control of the Tolai cocoa project constituted the thin edge of the wedge for another expatriate acquisition of resources. The misrepresentation of this issue to the Australian public has been one of the tragedies in our misunderstanding of the situation developing up there. 
I want to query one point. This is our belief that what is happening in Papua New Guinea is the Westminster system. The Westminster system has several important features to it, one of them being the state of public opinion. Lord Balfour said: 
Our alternative Cabinets though belonging to different parties, have never differed about the foundations of society. And it is evident that our whole political machinery presupposes a people so fundamentally at one that they can safely afford to bicker and so sure of their own moderation that they are not dangerously disturbed by the never ending din of political conflict. 
T am not sure of Papua New Guinea in that respect. Especially am 1 not sure of Papua New Guinea in that respect if the House of Assembly is doing what the House of Assembly has been doing at our request and trampling on local land rights as in Bougainville. 
It is easy to get the majority of highlanders to remove the land of the Rorovanas at Bougainville. But try it with their land and see how they would vote. If we face this situation honestly this is the old technique of divide and rule. The Westminster' system presupposes in its classic working a focal point of loyalty and that is the Crown, lt safeguarded the rule of law. .Service to the Crown is an honour. That concept subtly but effectively discourages corruption, although in the temptations of the mineral bonanza Ministers of State governments in Australia have abused the powers of the Crown to enrich themselves. I believe that this concept that service to the Crown had honorary features is disappearing from us. The Crown tends to strengthen the Government with the philosophy of divine sanction, if not divine right, and it gives continuity to the state in the changing of expendable governments. 
No focal point of loyalty exists in Papua New Guinea. We think that we have been training the people in a Westminster system of government. I believe that this contradicts all of colonial experience. The powerful governor surrounded by his nominated advisers over a period of 70 years or 80 years is a training in the American presidential system of government. Nearly every African leader aspired to the powers that he saw in the governor. He never aspired to powers that he saw in the Prime Minister because he has never seen a prime minister, Papua New Guinea has never seen a prime minister. Until it has a prime minister and a prime ministerial form of government there is no training in the Westminster system being given to the people there. We have continued with this presidential system for so long without recognising that this is what the administrator system is, with some modifications - ministerial members have now been appointed - that I think we are deceiving ourselves if we believe that the people have had any training in anything other than a presidential system. 
I believe that the aspirations of the people of Papua New Guinea are very important. If they want to delay the processes of selfgovernment and independence - if they understand what is being talked about in self-government - that ought to count as important with us. But their technical opinions on the form of government are not seriously to be considered. Is it seriously believed that if one went around the many villages of Papua New Guinea and asked the people: 'Do you think a Swiss cantonal form of government would solve the problems of Bougainville and the Gazelle Peninsula?' they would not know what one was talking about. But it is extremely probable that a Swiss cantonal form of government would solve the problems. We are giving them a training in a Swiss system of government if we have an entire Parliament electing the people who will be ministers. Elective ministries are vital in the Swiss system. The parliament elects the ministry irrespective of party from all parties. The ministry is a multi-party arrangement. What is taking place in Papua New Guinea has far more resemblance to that, where you really have a total political spectrum of strong conservatives in some of the Ministerial Members while others are quite radical, taken right across the Parliament except for the Pangu Party, which virtually has made itself the opposition. The Cabinet - if we can call it a Cabinet - that has so far been derived in Papua New Guinea has resemblances to the Swiss system. Therefore, in the intial stages of independence, I think that Papua New Guinea needs a strong central figure to be a focal point of loyalty. I believe that it may ba found more in a presidential system of government than with a prime minister who, if the classic prime ministerial system develops, is merely one of the alternative choices in the country. All his acts are controversial, so that he is not a person who can maximise the unity of the community; he is a controversial political figure. 
In the main we welcome the changes that are being made. We note that the Ministerial Members believe that independence may be accelerated and that the whole planning ought to be on the basis of accelerated independence - the faster it is done the better. This has now become the opinion of the House of Assembly, and we think that it is a welcome sign. I believe that the expatriate community is ceasing to be so Rhodesia-like; it is beginning to accept the realities of the modern world, and is less likely to try to use the highlanders as a brake on development. I believe that if the former attitude were continued, it would split the country. I do not believe that the aspirations of young people and others can be denied by manoeuvres. We welcome this proposal, but we believe that the Parliament should be based on entirely open electorates. 
I believe that this is a subject on which one should say what one really believes.  Mr Ray  Whitrod, the former Commissioner of Police in Papua New Guinea, with all the benefits of police intelligence, warns that independence and self-government for Papua New Guinea should not be delayed because of the worsening race relations there. I am going to say quite bluntly that 1 think the Ministerial Member of Immigration, or the Minister for Immigration if he is to become that, in Papua New Guinea should have the power of deportation. I do not know whether he already has it. But for a long period Papua New Guinea has had a fairly high cut of different types of expatriates - missionaries, administrators and so on. This is ceasing to be true and race relations are deteriorating accordingly. This has become apparent in Port Moresby over the years. Once upon a time I could walk around at night at Port Moresby quite undisturbed. The last time I was there I was spat at and bottles were thrown at my feet. I understand that the situation is the same in some of the other developing areas. Do not for heaven's sake think that economic development, bringing in a lot of expatriates, does not bring in a lot of lethal problems. 
Honourable gentlemen opposite have tried to hypnotise us with this expression of 'self-government'. I went right through Papua New Guinea conducting discussions with all sort of leading Papuans and New Guineans and ordinary village folk, and there is not the slightest doubt in my mind - none whatever - that, in the high- lands, highland members of the House of Assembly have been put up to speak against self government. I do not mind that, so 1 asked questions to try to elicit whether these people - they included members of the House of Assembly - really knew what self-government was. I said: Do you believe Papua New Guinea should now be controlling its own education?' Yes'. 'Agriculture? 'Yes'. 'Health?' Yes', 'Trade?' 'Yes.' 'Communications?' Yes'. 1 went through the whole lot and they had said yes to everything that added up to self-government. It reminded me of the Taft-Hartley Act which became poison to the trade unions in the United States of America. At a gallup poll 71 per cent of the people of the United States opposed the Taft-Hartley Act and never did less than 71 per cent support every clause in it. 
I want to know what those people had been told was meant by self-government. When some of us explained to them that self-government was the control of every function of government except probably internal security and external defence they tended to believe that they were ready for that now. Not everybody does. Some passionately said that they did and some still did not. But I agree with the United Nations Mission, or some members of it, that there is far too much brain washing by expatriate interests suggesting that if Papua New Guinea is to have independence it has to have a lot of money. Nigeria had a lot of development. Nigeria had a lot of money. Nigeria had a lot of corruption. There are some poor countries in Africa. Lesotho is an example - that looks much more like attaining to unity than wealthy Nigeria. 
I am so grateful to learn from Government members that they believe in imposing nothing on the people of Papua New Guinea. Do they seriously think that an election every 4 years is as intimate a thing to them as the ownership of land? And whose concepts of land ownership, whenever anything valuable has been discovered, has been imposed on them - and imposed on them by armed force and with tear gas and batons? If we say to the Government: You should accelerate selfgovernment, then that is a more serious matter than tramping on them and on their very conception of land ownership. 
These people have a slogan. There are an awful lot of slogans flying around in Papua New Guinea because the people there are clutching at simple points of politics that they do not always understand. You could easily make them believe that self-government is a bad thing. It could mean that we clear out, as large numbers of them said. They would be abandoned. But one of the things which has every trace of coming from their own wisdom is this: Money disappears, land lasts forever. That is a very important conception as far as they are concerned. They have an interesting thing to say about the former German possessions in the Gazelle Peninsula which were passed on to Australia by conquest through the Custodian of Expropriated Property. 'We certainly believe', said one of their leaders, 'in a fair deal for the white man. We will give them back their axes and beads.' That phrase has gone like a slogan round the place too. 
We regard these things as important. 1 stress again that the House of Assembly committee came at these things in Bougainville and the Gazelle and then ran away from them. Everything in Papua New Guinea has been imposed. The plantation system was imposed on them - it was not their idea. Wage labour was imposed on them - it was not their idea. Indentured labour was imposed on them - it was not their idea. A judiciary, with judges wearing wigs, was imposed on them - it was not their idea. Every form of parliament that they have had has been imposed on them and was not their idea. Now, not all of these things were bad. These people are being brought into the 20th century. But to say that all of us waited for them to say: 'Yes, we want a judicial system with judges and wigs, and please bring us Queensland criminal law' is complete nonsense. All sorts of things in their lives have been imposed by outside suggestion of tha colonial power and in most respects this has been very good. 
The Leader of the Opposition made perfectly clear that with the coming of selfgovernment and independence he was prepared to continue the financial grants; he was prepared to continue the expatriate officers in a Department of Pacific Relations. If people are frightened because of complete misrepresentations of what he said - I was with him and I heard what he said - then that is very unfortunate. This has occurred because a good deal of party politics has been played with what he said, and what he had to say about the rule of law up there was upheld by the Supreme Court. There are worse things than fragmentation. Fragmentation is a frightening word. The West Indies Federation came apart and instead of staying as a federation we now have Trinidad, Tobago and Guiana and various other places. So what! The central African federation fell apart; it fell apart amicably. So what? Pakistan's unity is being maintained and is it not beautiful? Nigeria's unity was maintained and was that not beautiful? 
I am concerned about human relations. I do not want a deterioration of Australian relations with the people of Papua New Guinea but as it is increasingly dawning on them that they will not own the economic resources of their country in minerals and other things they are becoming disturbed. They have other sets of expatriate advisers besides Australians. Bougainville is a Catholic island and the Catholic clergy there are largely American. They say to the people that in the United States if you own the surface of the land you own the minerals under it as well; that is United States custom. The people know that American Red Indians got millions of dollars out of the ownership of oil in their reserves. I know that the American Catholic priests have told them this. Australian expatriates talk about this as some American plot. It is the most normal form of conversation one could imagine. Our crown ownership of minerals under the surface of the land might be better or it might be worse but it is fairly unusual and it certainly does not accord in the slightest degree with the native land traditions. 
So I am not concerned about this question of imposition. We have sat and watched the Government impose things on people in Bougainville and elsewhere that are fa more serious and which are a far more serious infringement of their convictions than a question that is fairly remote from them, namely voting once every 4 years. The New Guinean tradition which one sees delightfully in their local councils is really debate and concensus. I think this is why a House of Assembly of a congressional style, which can toss out the Administration's legislation if it does not like it without the Government falling, is probably better from their point of view. I do not want to air this because I think ultimately Papua New Guinea will decide its own form of Government. But do not let us utter frightened words about secession. Lord Granville and Bismarck in 1884 made a decision to divide the Solomon Islands. Germany got Buka and Bougainville and Britain got the rest of the Solomons. Supposing Buka and Bougainville wanted to go back into the Solomons. Are we to mourn about that and say: 'No, divinely inspired Granville and Bismarck put this line through here and it has to stay forever'? Germany happened to administer Buka and Bougainville with German New Guinea and that is why we got it as a mandate and that is why it is separated from the Solomons. 
The Government does not dare hold a referendum on Bougainville because, and I say this definitely, it would get  i  97 per cent vote in favour of secession. Now it is getting this idea that secession must not take place because Bougainville happens to have the resources and the House of Assembly was used as an instrument to coerce the people of Bougainville. They know that the highlanders would never have dealt with their own land in the way they have dealt with the land of the people of Bougainville. That whole episode eccelerated the secessionist tend.dencies over there. There is a repetition of slogans. Toua Kapena gets up in the House of Assembly and says: 'We believe in the wages that New Guinea can afford'. He is supposed to be the Ministerial Member for Labour speaking for his own people - they are all happy with $5 a week and $12.50 rations. Again I say to to honourable members that in French New Caledonia, competing with the same goods in the same world markets the wages are 7 times as high as they are in Australian Papua New Guinea. 
For plantation workers, yes. French New Caledonian plantations workers receive $120 a month but the workers in Papua New Guinea receive $17.50. That is in Australian dollars. There is chicanery about that. I want to touch on the question of wages because Toua Kapena says that New Guinea cannot afford higher wages. I do not object to a statement like that. But who is New Guinea? Nobody called New Guinea is paying plantation wages. Those wages are paid by Burns Philp &amp; Co. Ltd, W. R. Carpenter &amp; Co. Ltd, Steamships Trading Co. Ltd and a lot of other companies. If we are to put this situation properly, as it would have to be put if there were an arbitration system, then one must say that Burns Philp cannot afford to pay higher wages. Carpenters cannot afford to pay higher wages, Steamships cannot afford to pay higher wages. That is what Toua Kapena really means. When a Ministerial Member makes that statement he makes it in good faith. It is a statement of a character which, when one reads it, one can see that it probaly has been handed to him by somebody else. I think he is being misled by advisers. 
I do not think the indigenous plantation owners have a wage system at all. 
They may not pay as much as the others but there are all sorts of traditional obligations that they have to their own people which make up for it. I am not concerned about the plantation workers. The Australian National University has pointed out that they receive rations from their own villages. In its analysis it has also pointed out that this means that highly affluent Australian agriculture is being subsidised by subsistence agriculture of (he villages. I think their physique is magnificent. All sorts of traditional things come to a man. But see a man in Port Moresby who is really only on the wages of $7 a week and one will get, as has been pointed out, the rising incidence of tuberculosis, the shanty dwellings and all of those things. I think the conditions of wage earners in Papua New Guinea are thoroughly miserable and will remain miserable as long as the Toua Kapenas can leave trade union letters unanswered for over 9 months when they make a claim for wages, when the employers leave their letters unanswered and there is no system of arbitration which can bring the matter to an engagement to see what is really fair. I speak about these things because I think that this, rather than some particular constitutional step which the Government is taking at the moment, is basic. 
Often we talk about the tragedy of the Congo as if it was due to the absence of technicians. It was not. It was due to the presence of hate. I do not believe that there is at the present time a dangerous level of hate in Papua New Guinea which could threaten the structure. But it is palpably rising. It is rising in the Gazelle Peninsula. We have come to the edge of an armed clash several times. It is rising in Bougainville. I ask honourable members to please note that it is rising in the most advanced areas if literacy is the test of advancement. They are areas of the longest conduct, contact and are the most easily accessible. They have in Bougainville made very great sacrifices. The English Geographic Magazine pointed out that 400 million tons of overburden is coming down their rivers and the land is being affected quite seriously. I leave all that aside. But 1 do think that certain stages of selfgovernment could be very salutary. I could imagine nothing more salutary than the deportation of a few Australian louts. It would go like a shock through that community and it would start curing the assumptions of superiority that so many of them have. The power over immigration and emigration - who comes into their country and who goes out of it - would be a very important step in self-government and 1 believe that it would lead to certain changes in attitudes that might improve race relations. 
I promised that I would give an honourable member a certain chance to speak in this second reading debate. What we desire is the wellbeing of the people of Papua New Guinea. Our fundamental disagreement with the Government is that it has far too touching a faith in economic development. Economic development by expatriate business can become a major source of corruption. It did in Nigeria, where nearly every Minister was corrupt. But who bribed those Ministers? Expatriate businessmen. The bribes came in party subsidies, governed for the interests of the expatriates. At receptions in Nigeria, I heard them all talking about foreign capital. When I was driving with one of their ministerial drivers, he poured out his hate of the wealth that these people were making compared with the wage level that he had. That hatred ultimately burst in Nigeria with disastrous results. 
I do not believe that New Guinea is a Nigerian situation. I do not think that enough people in New Guinea are working for unity. They have been encouraged to be roads and bridges members. The highlanders have been encouraged in their grievances. I think that this is a weakness. But I believe this: Solve the land problem in the Gazelle before independence. Buy the people out if necessary through the Reserve Bank and put in some extra grants for the highlands, and we will find with reassurance of localisation of land ownership a denunciation of tensions and the creation of that social atmosphere around Government institutions which is more important than Government institutions as structures in determining whether they work. 
The Opposition proposes to divide the Committee on clause 3 because of paragraph (c), which deals with regional electorates. The honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  referred to the powerful intrusion of outside ideas. I saw the famed shock go through Papua New Guinea after the Foot mission, and there was an especially violent reaction among the expatriates. We have to tell the House of Assembly in Papua New Guinea what we think about this regional question. In regard to handling the problems of their country the intermediate certificate of education does not give anybody an expertise in the House of Assembly higher than that of a wise local leader who might be totally illiterate. Some chieftains or father figures from the villages show much more wisdom in the House of Assembly than do others who come from these regional electorates. If the regional electorates brought to the 
House of Assembly 18 economic experts or people with some high degree of expertise in any field, there would be something to be said for them, but the intermediate certificate is simply an illusion that has been put to them. We believe that they heed to face this fact It is for this reason, although we do not propose any amendment, that we will vote against this clause. We believe these people would be better off with 100 members in open electorates. We believe that would get the number of educated men info the House who might have some contribution to make from that point of view, but as we also believe that this is really resting on a form of illusion we intend to vote against the clause. 
I move as an amendment: 
That the words 'the next sitting' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'Tuesday next'. 
This is a question of courtesy. The ordinary procedure, as I have known it in this Parliament over 26 years, is that legislation is introduced and, normally speaking, one can expect a week's adjournment of a Bill as important as ' this one. The Minister's second reading speech has not explained many of the strange disparities within the Bill. For instance, why in the State of Queensland is the sum for the private schools greater than it is for government schools whereas in South Australia the ratio is 4 to 1 in favour of government schools? This clearly is a measure which does require members of the Opposition, to whom this is an extremely important subject, to find out from the various States what they feel about the magnitude of the grant that they will obtain. 
A change was made in this legislation. In the original triennium the assessed needs of the private schools were found and then the government schools were given grants in the ratio of about 3 to 1 because the ratio of enrolment was about 3 to 1 in their favour. Suddenly the assistance for the private schools was doubled. There have never been any adequate explanations of this. The doubled per capita grant for private schools - double that for State schools - is repeated and it is to be the feature of the next 4 years according to this legislation. This is a matter that requires a great deal of consideration. Most of us need to have consultations with education authorities in our own States. We believe that this is significant legislation. We ask for common courtesy from the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  for the adjournment of this Bill for a -longer period than is pro posed. The previous Leader of the House set all time records in discourtesy and that produced an explosion in this Parliament. 1 think it also reflected considerable discredit on the Government but I shall not debate that matter. The same situation has been featured in the Press over the last few days because of the manner of the handling of the House by the present Leader of the House who has reached the level of his predecessor in his discourtesy towards the Opposition. The Minister knows very well that common courtesy would require the adjournment of a Bill like this for more than a few hours. The request we are making is reasonable. 
I move as an amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted and there be substituted in lieu thereof: 'the Prime 
Minister be called upon to justify the variation in times from the procedures determined by the House yesterday. 
The Opposition expressed this morning, in a motion to which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  did not reply but which related to him, our feelings about the procedures that have been adopted in trying to crash through the rights of honourable members and to force Bills through at the rate of one every half-hour and sometimes through the Committee stage in 2 minutes. The Prime Minister himself said that he is fully responsible for the tactics of the Government in curtailing the arrangements of this Parliament, reducing its sitting time by 2 weeks and then declaring that the procedures of yesterday were the ones that the House should accept. Now we have, an even greater curtailment of time in respect of a whole series of Bills. 

 - Mr Speaker, I draw your attention to the fact that the Prime Minister has taken responsibility for the arrangements of the debates on what the Government intends to be the last day of this sitting period. In so taking responsibility he has, as every honourable member will recognise, curtailed the rights of honourable members to study legislation and to speak. It is surely relevant that the House should inform its mind by hearing the Prime Minister justify the procedures for which he has claimed responsibility. 
The guillotine has already been approved andI have no intention of requesting the Leader of the House to attempt to alter it 
The right honourable gentleman also said: 
I will take responsibility for the decisions that have been made during the time that I have been the Prime Minister. 
The very guillotine which the Prime Minister yesterday said he would not ask to be altered, the very guillotine for which amongst other things he took responsibility, is now being altered. I submit that it is relevant to the motion which seeks to alter it that the House should hear the reasons why now the Prime Minister has not only allowed but has apparently instructed the Leader of the House to vary the guillotine. 
I wish to address myself briefly to the Schedule and to make one or two comments. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  has not justified the Schedule to this Bill. He stated that we can consider that a considerable percentage  -  30 per cent - of the expenditure of State schools is coming from State grants. That is a valid enough statement if you just assume that nothing is coming to provide equipment for laboratories or so on to the private schools. Of course before any Commonwealth system of grants existed they had a system of  science teaching which was better than the system of science teaching in the State schools. The Minister has accused us of an inverted class snobbery on this business. I mentioned in the course of the debate that my own son went to a private school, Christ Church Grammar School in Western Australia. I would say also that I was given very considerable tax exemptions. If the Minister wishes to know, I would regard myself, compared with the generality of the Australian people, as having an upper-middle class income and that is what we are talking about. It is perfectly clearly set out in the schedules of the Taxation office that there are those sorts of things. As for the hoary old argument that it is just class feeling, as if Karl Marx invented class - does the honourable gentleman not know that for centuries the British had Lords and Commons? What is that but a classification of people? What existed before Marx ever spoke of these things? What the Minister said is complete nonsense. There is no question of antipathy to Geelong Grammar School. I said specifically that I did not believe that this school should be deprived of grants. Our query was why the amount came out as double for the private schools, which the Minister cannot deny. He tries to justify it by saying that the state schools get some money from the States. I say also that the private schools get some money to equip their science laboratories and that they do other things with the money from their fees. If the Minister wants to talk about other sources of funds he should speak about both sides of the ledger. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Third reading 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  - by leave - read a third time. 
I move: 
That all words after That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to increase the grant for schools conducted by a State to the same amount per pupil as the grant for schools not conducted by a State'. 
When the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Bill was introduced originally, the formula used was based an the enrolment in secondary schools - roughly on the ratio of 3 to 1. After the first triennium the amount going to private schools was doubled, so that it has been in the ratio of 3 to 2. This Bill provides for $26m for State schools and $17m for private schools over the 4 years. The previous ratios, when expressed as a per capita amount per pupil, show what has happened. The science grants for State schools represented $10.58 per pupil. For Catholic schools it was $23.16 per pupil. For the other private schools it was $24.08. No matter where one turns, the accusation is being made against the Government that what it is doing in education favours the affluent. I refer to the leading article in the Canberra Times' of this morning. It refers to scholarships but makes the some general charge in this way: 
It should be a matter for pained reflection that in the affluent Western democracies the costs of two of the most elementary necessities, medical care and higher education, are beyond the private means of the vast majority of citizens, whereas in some less affluent countries under dictatorial rule, these things are, with some pertinent reservations, free. In Australia people on low or medium income are unable to meet these costs without the intervention of elaborate schemes of assistance. In the field of tertiary education government programmes of aid have their merits but they fall far short of the ideal. 
Later, the article states: 
According to the AUS submission, only 2 per cent of children in the lower socio-economic classes get tertiary education'. 
The final general comment is: 
The criticism levelled at the Commonwealth that it has updated its scheme of scholarships arbitrarily and without regard for stable economic, social, or academic criteria is justified. 
These figures have been arrived at arbitrarily. There are some strange anomalies among them. In South Australia, for instance, the grants to state schools in relation to private schools are in the ratio of 6 to 1. But in Queensland the grant to private schools is greater than that to the much more numerous public state schools. Some of these things are hard to understand. There is a letter also in today's Canberra Times' by a correspondent named Kathleen Abbott of Torrens. She writes: 
This situation- 
I need not refer to what she is discussing; it is an aspect of education -  . . will maintain and strengthen the Commonwealth Government's conception of education as a sectional private advantage dependent upon parental income. 

 Mr Fairbairn's statement on dropout rates confirms that we have another Liberal Minister for Education and Science who complacently contemplates a disgracefully immoral inequality of educational opportunity among children, and completely ignores the social and economic disasters these same children will have to bear in their lifetime as a result of his Party's policies. 
I endorse the statement about the inequalities of opportunities. I am not going on to discuss disasters that may ensue to children in later life. But there is a luminous couple of paragraphs in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  in which he tells us that he believes that the Government is coming towards the end of this aid. Although the whole country is roaring with the most tremendous estimates of educational needs and of the billions of dollars that may need to be spent over, a decade to update Australian education, he regards this as finite. The Minister said: 
The programme for science laboratories has always been regarded as a finite one designed to overcome deficiencies, and the shifting emphasis  in Commonwalth  programmes reflects the success of the science facilities programme. Because we are reaching the end of the programme we are changing the method of allocation of the available funds. Until now, funds have been distributed on the basis of a formula which was based on secondary enrolments and State populations. For the remaining  4  years the method of distribution will take closer account of the actual needs of particular schools. 
It is very hard to believe that a formula which doubles the per capita grant to private schools is one which is based on needs. If you are referring to the Catholic schools, yes, but I cannot believe, in the face of the educational collapse which is one of the leading features of Victoria, that the positions of the Geelong Grammars and so on under this sort of legislation are a consideration of need. It is a strange thing in Australia that no matter what is done it appears that the upper middle classes, under Government legislation, will always get off with the loot. We have a situation in which twice as much is given per capita to the greater public schools, on the Ministers own figures as to the State schools. When it come to tax concessions, of course, if you allow a deduction of $300 for education and a man is a 50c in the $1 taxpayer, he is given an educational endowment of $150 for his child. The poorer person does not get any such educational endowment. When it comes to the allowance for children - $200, shall we say, for the first child - the same thing applies. A 50c in the $1 man gets back $100 for his child; a lc in the $1 man gets back $2 for his child. 
Even the rural crisis that we are sometimes debating is another interesting example.  Sir Arthur  Fadden gave very great concessions to farmers for ploughing back money into their farms as an investment. It is spotted immediately by the' tipper middle classes. Doctors, lawyers and all sorts of people like that start investing heavily in farms as a means of avoiding taxation. They build up an asset which they may sell completely as a tax-free capital gain. They come pouring into the rural industries. They drive up the price of land so that the bona fide farmer coming into it starts off with heavy indebtedness. They greatly increase production, down go prices, and we find large numbers of bona fide farmers with no other income who we now know will walk off their farms as a result of legislation which was designed originally to assist the farmers. This is an example of how almost everything that is done in this country ends up, under the Government structure of legislation, benefiting the well-to-do. 
The science laboratory grants began with the election of 1963. Like a lot of imperfectly thought out pieces of policy - the Fill being another - they were brought in for the exigencies of a particular election. But they were fair enough at the time. If it was in the ratio of 3 to 1 - the State schools and the enrolment in the State schools were in the ratio of 3 to 1 - fair enough. We believe that all schools should be brought up to acceptable standards. Even Geelong Grammar, if it is not of an acceptable standard, should be brought up to an acceptable standard because there are children in it. It is a field of education. But I cannot see how you can argue in the face of the appalling conditions of high schools, not in my electorate where they are excellent, but in many of the metropolitan electorates around Australia. I cannot understand how a person, seeing their abject lack of facilities, can then be gratified at the way this scheme has been working. It is patently obvious, all over Australia, from this legislation that to him that hath more was given. Excellent facilities were put into the Christ Church Grammar School which my son attended, as a result of this scheme. The Freemantle Christian Brothers, which perhaps charged about one-tenth of the fees, got no excellent facilities under the scheme. 
I do not profess to understand how funds are allotted between schools in the private sector. I suppose the disparity between the public sector and the private one the Minister will now justify again by saying: 'Ah, but you are overlooking one thing. A considerable grant is made to the State schools for technical education.' But the technical facilities that have been established, as a result of Commonwealth grants and State action, such as the Western Australian Institute of Technology, Leederville Technical School and Perth Technical School, are facilities which are used by children from both the private schools and the State schools alike. Those who want a technical education go to them irrespective of the background from which they have come. That is a different form of service altogether. Apart from that it is extremely doubtful whether technical education institutions will receive $26m, which is what the State schools should be getting to get the same per capital grant from the Commonwealth now as the private schools will get under this legislation. The State schools should be getting another $26m. If the private schools are getting $17m the State schools, on enrolment, should be getting $52m and not $26m. While in the past this disparity has been explained in terms of technical education, it is extremely doubtful whether any grant of $26m is being made for technical education even if you can make an analogy between technical education and science block grants, which I deny. lt is a disturbing feature of the whole situation that one of the other explanations which might be advanced is that the dropout, rate in the State high schools is so very high that you could account for it with the greater public schools retaining 80 per cent through to the final year and the State schools maintaining a very low percentage through to the final year. One might justify the higher grants on that basis. But the Catholic schools and the State schools have a very similar drop-out rate and yet there is the same great disparity. I do not make much of the disparity between $23.16 for Catholic schools and $24.08 for other private schools, because anybody who knows anything about these sorts of things knows that a nun handling money can make a dollar go much further than anybody else. That may account for some of the slight differences there. But I think that the Government has not a democratic conception of education at all. 
The Minister has shown really no emotion at all about the drop out rate in the non-affluent sectors of education, which rate clearly establishes that education is beyond the means of a very large number of people in the country. That would justify not adopting a regressive way of financing or making tax concessions for education. There does not seem to be any perception that there must be a great loss of skill and a great loss of potential in the drop out rate. The Minister's references to it have been entirely complacent. We have been told that it has increased by a certain percentage. I hope that I am not misquoting the Minister, but I think that he said that over a certain period of time 64 per cent more children were staying at State schools than before. Let us see how he can arrive at a figure like this. Only 16 per cent of State school children at one stage completed the full secondary course. Many years later, 24 per cent were doing so. That can be represented by a 50 per cent increase, and that is the way the Minister uses it. 
But it is only an 8 per cent increase of the total enrolment. Similarly his 64 per cent increase of the total enrolment is about 12 per cent increase. That is the figure that we really ought to be looking at. If one says that there has been a 64 per cent increase, some people vaguely think that it must have been about 16 per cent before and now it has become 80 per cent. But in the Minister's way of stating things that would be a 400 per cent increase. Of course, taking a base figure and using it in a particular way would be perfectly correct, but for the listening public it is quite misleading. The drop out rate in the State schools is very gravely disturbing It is something like two-thirds. I do not say for a moment that all children should be forced to stay at school. That situation could be completely disastrous. I still cannot believe that, in the disparity between the affluent where 80 per cent stay on and the non-affluent where only something like 30 per cent stay on, there is nothing to be accounted for in the great difference except the desire to leave school. That would not be so at all. 
I think we must use our commonsense and recognise that there is a real loss because of the inability of parents to afford the education which they would desire for their children. It is not the desire of the Opposition to take down anybody's education. I do not desire a reduction of $17m to the private sector. In my book, a Catholic child at a convent school is as precious an Australian citizen as a child at a State school and, for that matter, a boy at Geelong Grammar is as valuable as somebody at Canberra High School. This is not the point. The point is that a formula was used which doubled the grant to one category while we believe in retaining that $17m - if this is what has really been arrived at as assessed needs - we suspect that pro rata the needs of the others are $52m. Now we are coming to the end of the party in this. A great wave of sickness is spreading over the country about the state of the State schools. I do not like the defence of Government Schools propaganda because it falsely suggests that the way to lift the children in the State schools is by tearing down children somewhere else. But the truth of what they are saying about the conditions in the State schools is beyond doubt, and they are making the community very conscious of these issues. 
I think that the first little straw in the wind is this vague reference of the Minister - not carried out at all in the legislation - paying lip service to the future, that in the future needs will be considered more and more. It is an admission that in the past needs have not been considered to the extent that they should, have been, this is a good resolution. Oscar Wilde says: 
There is a fatality about good resolutions. They are always made too late. 
The fatality about this good resolution is that it has been made too late. The inferior teaching has gone on. If the proper ratio bad been granted to the State schools there would have been a lift in teaching. The slighting of the teaching profession, teaching in the slum conditions as they do, has gone on for too long, especially in the State of Victoria. That State suffered .for a long, long time under Premiers who, before the war, believed in keeping a very low tax rate and spending nothing on social services so that Victoria fell far behind. It never has recovered in the field of education and chronic unrest is now being produced in the teaching profession in that State. Teachers teach in slum conditions that could have been transformed if there had been more generous grants. At least it would be a sign of their value if science blocks were put into some of these metropolitan slum schools where they have not been put in. 
Teachers who see themselves so undervalued have lost heart. Many of them have left the profession and not enough are coming into the profession. There is a chronic shortage of teachers. I am not going to say that the situation is as bad as it would have been if the Commonwealth Government had done nothing, but I do say that the original formula which had regard to enrolment, while not perfect because it does not really have regard to need, should have been maintained. At least it should have been maintained in preference to doubling the ratio to those, at least in the greater public schools, who must be regarded as being in the more affluent sector. I would deny that Catholic schools were in the more affluent sector. Any study of the fees around the country would show that while there are certain Catholic schools that are in the greater public school area, most of them are not. 
As I have said in the House before, at least at the primary level there are certain convent schools that have been a minus quantity in fees because nuns and others have actually fed migrant children from indigent families. Far from drawing fees they have carried the burden of cost. But the whole approach of .the Minister to the children in the State schools is wrong. There is a continuance of .this, wrong approach. Because of that we feel that we cannot allow this formula to continue without a gesture against it. The Minister says that in the future he will give, .consideration to need. That is not expressed in the present legislation and for that reason I move the amendment that I have cited. 

 - Mr Speaker, a situation of some danger is developing in the Indian sub-continent, namely, the danger of a war between India and Pakistan and it is not impossible that a war between India and Pakistan could lead to a world war. Although many of the matters that we will discuss are parts of an iceberg above the surface, I think that below the surface between these 2 countries there is a basic fear on the part of Pakistan that India has never really accepted its right to exist, and there is a basic fear on the part of India that Pakistan is consenting to being used as an instrument of Communist China to break up the unity of India. There are significant people in both countries who take those views of the other country. 
The resolution that was passed this morning by the Parliamentary Labor Party on this subject states: 
The need for Australian initiatives to assist the cause for peace in the Indian sub-continent by: 
Conveying to the Military Government oi Pakistan the conviction that the overwhelming election of  Mujibar  Rahman should be allowed to follow its normal constitutional path to the formation of  a  Government. 
Conveying to the Military Government of Pakistan that the execution of Mujibur after a secret trial will be regarded a&gt; judicial murder. 
Increasing aid to the refugees. 
Interceding wilh the Military Government of Pakistan to desist from military action in East Pakistan.  1 believe that the Australian Government should press these policies. I do not say that I believe that every power in the world will support these policies, but I believe that we should propose them because they are right 
In the debate which has just concluded, a very great deal has been said about giving people the right to be ruled by their elected governments and that those elected governments should not be overthrown by force. Now, Yahya Khan is an . ally of a Communist government. If he were Communist, we know that everybody in this House would be stressing that here was a classic pattern of genocide - perhaps one of the biggest cases of genocide in history. We would be told how there were 7 million or 8 million refugees from Communism. How it would be stressed that Mujibur Rahman had 167 seats of 169 seats in an election conducted by Yahya's government and that if anybody represents the people of East Pakistan, he does. 
The Government of Pakistan is an ally of Communist China. It is probable that the visit of  President  Nixon to Communist China and the fact that the United States has allowed arms to go to Pakistan is the cause of India abandoning its non-alignment and becoming a Soviet ally. So, this is a serious development in what I think was another example of the rather maladroit handling of the affairs of Asia on the part of the  President  of the United States of America. 1 think that his timing in allowing arms to go to Pakistan in particular was extremely unwise because they are being used in a campaign, without any question, to overthrow the elected government. For those who want to make points about Communism, Bhutto, who is one of the architects of this policy in the West, is completely sympathetic to Communist China. There is at the moment an alternative government played down or an alternative political party led by Maulana Bhasani in East Pakistan. There is, finally, a naxalite type of movement led by Mukhtiar and the one man who threatens every Chinese strategy in Pakistan is Mujibah Rahman because he could form, with the consent of the overwhelming majority of people in East Pakistan, and enough to be a majority in both Pakistani, a government which would be really independent. 
Pakistan has been governed under the Government of India Act of 1935 for a long time. Under the Government of India Act, the British Parliament enacted all sorts of parliaments in India but gave emergency powers under section 92 to the Viceroy to suspend all parliaments and to rule in his own name. The  President  of Pakistan as the legatee of the powers of the Viceroy of India has constantly suspended all parliaments in Pakistan and ruled in his own name backed by military dictatorship. This is one of the facts of life. 
I have no hostility to Pakistan. I have no hostility to its military dictatorship. But it did conduct this election. It Icd to a result that it did not expect. Yahya Khan went to East Pakistan and talked to the elected Prime Minister of the country, poured in troops while he was doing so, then overthrew him, and in the actions of the Pakistan troops, which the Ministers know are described by their own diplomats, there are all the atrocities of which we could ever accuse the North Vietnamese multiplied many times over; and many more people have fled the country. 
There are tremendous pressures on Indira Gandhi to go to war. It would be an extremely dangerous war; but it is a tempting one for certain Indian politicians because had Yahya Khan had the wisdom to allow Mujibah Rahman to be Prime Minister of Pakistan the political force from Pakistan - that is, the Awami League - at least would have had a vested interest in keeping Pakistan united while it formed the Government of Pakistan, lt has always felt that too much of the resources of East Pakistan have been appropriated by West Pakistan. No doubt it would have run a different economy but it would have had a vested interest in keeping the country united. 
It happened that I went to Dakar when Iskander Mersa a former governor and President of Pakistan overthrew the government of East Pakistan in the year 1954. I had afternoon tea with Iskander 
Mersa on one day and morning tea with the ejected Ministers the next. So, I heard both sides of the story. But I would say that what Yahya Khan has done - without intending to do it - is to make impossible the unity of the 2 Pakistans If from 1910 to 1923 it became impossible for Great Britain, with far greater resources than Ireland and living right next door to Ireland, to resist the course of home rule, I say that in the long run the 47 million people in West Pakistan separated by 1,000 miles of Indian territory from the 76 million people of East Pakistan will not be able to preserve the unity of the 2 Pakistans by the methods of massacre. The wisest course of action for them to adopt would be for this constitutional process which they themselves set in motion, and which led to such a startling result in the immense victory of the Awami League in East Pakistan, to proceed. 
Now, as more refugees pour in, the pressure in India to go to war increases. The Indians ask: 'Is it any more intolerable than to be asked to carry the burden of a refugee population which apparently is going to go on increasing indefinitely starving to death on our territory?' The Indians may well ask: 'Is it not better to end this intolerable burden by going to war?' 
What the Australian Government has done with respect to this matter was announced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  today. Rice or something of the sort worth $500,000 is to be sent and requests are being made to the Government of India for information as to what it wants. The Government, for heaven's sake, should look at the precedent it established when  Sir Paul  Hasluck -  Mr Hasluck  as he was then - was Minister lor External Affairs, as the portfolio of Foreign Affairs was called then. There was a crisis in India with the famine at Bihar. The Government shifted 580,000 tons of wheat, worth S35m, to India and it set up 6 excellent modern bakeries which function in India today. That action seems to me at least to represent thinking on an adequate scale. But, in the current crisis, first of all the Government fooled about with a few thousand dollars. It was shamed then into raising this to aid worth Sim. I pay a very warm tribute to the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs, to the medical people and to all those who have gone to India. But I do ask whether, in the face of the magnitude of this tragedy, what the Australian Government is doing is adequate. I would think that my colleagues in the Country Party must have been rather glad when the Australian taxpayers paid for 580,000 tons of wheat to alleviate the Bihar famine. It was not only right that the wheat was shifted, but also it was certainly no loss to the Australian farmer. An adequate generosity at the present time is no great disability to Australia, if we have unsaleable surpluses of grain or unsaleable surpluses of any rural commodities. We will not only bc doing the right thing in a disastrous situation, but also we will be doing the right thing by a part of our own rural economy. If the Government will see its way clear to greatly increasing the aid that it is giving and offering in this area - I realise it is a question of offering - it will have the enthusiastic support of honourable members on this side of the House and it will have the enthusiastic support of the country. 
I do not think the Government should go on pussyfooting about the situation there. With due deference to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, what he had to say this afternoon was pussyfooting. Undoubtedly, if it was simply a Communist leader and not a Communist ally which did the things that the Government of West Pakistan has done in East Pakistan the roof would be lifted in this place by honourable gentlemen on the right side of  Mr Speaker.  It is not a question of who is right; it is a question of what is right. I have always taken the view about political assassinations - when people have tried to justify to me Irish gunmen and so on - that it is no more respectable to murder a man because you disagree with his politics than it is to murder an old woman because you want her purse. I hope we will define a standard of what is right. The massacres conducted by non-Communist or anti-Communists in Indonesia or Pakistan are something that if we are to create a sane world have to be spoken about in precisely the same way as honourable gentlemen opposite have always spoken if it was done by Communists. 
I think that on both sides of the House it would be a very good thing if we abandoned some of our selective indignation and applied the same standards to everybody - if we applied the same standards to Milton Obote as we have applied to Smith of Rhodesia. When we start doing that I think we will start building a sane world. In this particular situation that now exists, I would like to hear that the Australian Government had instructed its officials at the United Nations to invoke not merely the processes of bilateral a  .1  by Australia directly to India and some other people directly to India, but the mobilisation of the United Nations agencies to help to solve this position, because it is doubly dangerous. It is not only a humanitarian question, but it is a provocation towards a war - a provocation towards a war in which both the Soviet Union and Communist China might intervene if it is launched. That would be to threaten the stability of the whole area. It would be a tragedy if through leaving India to carry an undue burden you were to strengthen the hands of those in India who are advocating war as the solution of the situation that is developing. 
I welcome very much indeed what the Minister had to say about increased aid, but I do ask the Government to think on the scale, at least, on which it thought during the Bihar famine a number of years ago in India, to look at its grain surplus, to look at its capacity to assist with food, to look at its capacity to assist with food and shelter, and to look at its diplomatic resources to try to mobilise the agencies of the United Nations to do what they should be doing in this situation. 
I address a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government received an answer to the representations which the Minister said it had made to the Government of Pakistan concerning the fate of Sheik Mujibur Rahman and, if so, what was the nature of the answer? 
Inflation is always deplored, but inflation always takes place. I would remind the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  who has just resumed his seat, that when the present Government assumed office the basic wage was 5 18s a week, which is less than $12 a week. The standard wage now would be well over $50 a week. That is a reflection of the movement of prices. Since inflation is a condition of rising prices, the Government has been in its 22 years in office characterised by continuous inflation. Wage earners do not gain from inflation, nor do farmers. But there are people who gain from inflation. Holders of real estate gain from inflation, many businesses gain from inflation and, let us face it, governments gain from inflation. Inflation is popular with all governments, which is why it is taking place in all countries of the world. It is popular with governments because that is how they get out of debt. A person who lent 100 to the Chifley Government in 1945 lent it 25 weeks of the then basic wage. If he now got back $200 he would be getting back 4 weeks of the present basic wage. The Government is an enormous beneficiary from the process of inflation. That is fundamentally why inflation never stops. 
An ordinary listener to the proceedings of this Parliament may be surprised to hear it said that the economy is actually nobody's political propaganda; but that is the position. The Government is not responsible for the collapse of wool prices nor is it responsible for the market position of primary industry in the world. However, honourable gentlemen opposite were not loath to claim the credit for the boom prices that we enjoyed some years ago and the prosperity that resulted, which was fortuitously due to the boom prices. Without any hesitation the Government took to itself to claim credit for that situation. Having trained so many of its supporters to think in that way. it should not be in any way surprised today if many of them now consider that the Government must also be responsible for the depressed condition of prices in the rural industry. 
There is no doubt that the Minister was correct when he continually stressed the importance to Australia of rural industries. It is a fact that every $1,000 worth of public expenditure on supporting an industry produces about $2,500 worth of exports if it goes in the direction of rural industries - that is, by way of all the forms of subsidies, rail freights and what have you - and $400 worth of exports if it goes in the direction of secondary industries. In view of that comparison, I have no doubt about the importance of rural industries to Australia. 
The Government has been claiming - perhaps a little more falteringly lately - to be responsible for full employment. It should be remembered that the Chifley Government had full employment without an inflow of capital. There are many countries in the world which would regard it as laughable to claim great virtue for maintaining a high level of employment when there is an inflow of foreign capital of one billion 380 million dollars. I am using the American billion, which is $ 1,000m - which represents more than $100 per head of population in Australia. The formula adopted is to say that that is a tribute to our virtuous and stable governments. I am willing to bet that the money will continue to flow into Western Australia, with the virtuous and stable  Mr Tonkin  in office, so long as there is the virtuous and stable iron ore, bauxite and nickel in the ground in that State. 
The capital inflow is not coming into this country because people passionately admire the governments of this country, neither the Conservative Government here nor the the Labor governments in 2 of the States. Capita] goes where it can get the resources and where it expects to get a return. So let us be done with a lot of these claims about the virtue of the Government in quite fortuitous circumstances. That reminds me of a political campaign in the United States when someone said to the youth in reference to  Senator Goldwater:  Why can't you be like  Senator Goldwater  and inherit a department store?' Why do we not say to New Zealand: 'Why can't you be like clever Australia and have billions of tons of iron ore. nickel and bauxite in your soil?' Obviously that is something beyond the reach of any government. The basic things in the Australian economy have nothing to do with the policies of any government of course, they have nothing to do with the policies of any opposition, either. So let us try to discuss some of these things a little more objectively. 
There are questions as to the handling of certain aspects of our industry. For instance, the Government speaks of farmers being affected by costs. Notice the terminology in which the word 'costs' is used. Somehow or other one can slide costs on to wages in that instance much easier than one could if one were to say that farmers are affected by prices. If one were to say that farmers are affected by prices the question of whether the Government can do anything about prices might arise. The Government denied for many years that it could. It has now attempted to do io in connection with a number of aspects - unfair trading practices, resale price maintenance and so on. They are costs and costs are prices, but the Government prefers to use the word costs' because it can blame wages. Compare the alacrity with which the Minister for the Interior spoke about wages as a factor for the farmer and the reluctance with which the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  spoke about freights as a factor in farmers' costs. When a shipping combine decided to hike the prices it charged for Australian exports the Minister for Trade and Industry wrung his hands, but he made it perfectly clear that the Government intends to do nothing about the matter. It does not intend to do anything with the national shipping line or anything else about an overseas combine which has gone into collusion. 
I warn the Government that it may very well find that Japan will do in the field of minerals what it has now done to the wool industry. Japanese buyers have played a very significant part in the organisation of the downward movement in wool prices. That is their business. I merely note it. But the same thing could happen with bauxite. The governments of Australia are behaving as if they were completely foreign to one another. We have an enormous development of bauxite in Queensland under the auspices of the Government of Queensland, we have an enormous development of bauxite at Gove in the Northern Territory under the auspices of the Commonwealth Government and we are going to get enormous developments of bauxite in the Kimberleys and near Perth under the auspices of the Government of Western Australia. It is perfectly competent for Japan to enter into contracts with these various companies that have nothing to do with one another to take a couple of years' supply of bauxite or alumina and then afterwards to stand back and pick and choose between them and play them against one another to force the price of alumina down. I venture to predict that this is what will happen. 
One sees a magnificent organisation at Gove which has $300m invested in it, or 1,500 Swiss Francs, largely from Alusuisse, a Swiss company. One sees there the longest conveyor belt in the world, 16 miles long, but along that conveyor belt goes only bauxite. If the price of alumina falls this organisation will not be able to send nickel or manganese along that conveyor belt because it is geared to the production of one thing. It is more tightly bound than is the wool grower and, therefore, is more vulnerable to a policy that plays off the Australian States against one another or plays off Brazil against Australia than is the wool grower to any sort of organisation of the wool market between buyers. The one disadvantage of rural industry, of course, is that the terms of trade always tend to turn against it. This is what has created the Common Market in Europe and this is what has created the steel determination to protect the farmer in those economies where the farmer sells nearly all his goods internally. We could guarantee all Australian agriculture if we did not export most of its products. 
What is the difference between secondary industry and primary industry in this respect? If there is a fall in the demand for cars, half a dozen car manufacturers can agree among themselves to reduce production, to lay off staff and to ride out the slump. If there is a fall in demand for wheat, wool or any primary product the first instinct of the farmer is to produce more to keep his income up and this very markedly has a tendency to lead to a further reduction in price. He is handing over the value of his increased productivity, his more efficient production, to the consumer nations, and this is why the terms of trade persistently turn against agriculture. This was pointed out by the economist Prebisch, and it is called the Prebisch effect. It has been one of the things producing the chronic political instability of Africa. Ghana and Nigeria in a decade quadrupled their production of cocoa and coffee and they received less for 4 times as much as they originally received for the unit 1 quantity at the beginning. They had to run very hard to stand still; they had to produce more and more simply to get the same return. Of course, they came to a point where they could not do so any longer and that economic instability was one factor underlying their general political instability. 
I want to turn now from this aspect of the Australian economy to make one or two comments on defence. I think it is time we knew what is to be done about the FU 1 aircraft. It looks to me as though we will have instalment No. 10 for the next election. It periodically bobs up at every election. At the last election the Government did not want to have a politician commenting on the Fill so it got a retired air marshall,  Sir Valston  Hancock I think it was, to write in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' that it was still the most marvellous aeroplane of our age, the best thing on wings since the angels. He omitted to say, of course, that there are 2 classes of angels, those under Lucifer which crashed and those under Michael which remained airborne. I do not know which category of angels it comes into but it seems to me that it would be the Lucifer category. Anyway, we could have had the TSR2 instead of the Fill. 
The honourable member for North Sydney says that it would not have worked but I do not think delivery would have been postponed for quite so long as the Fill. If this aircraft will not fly I hope the Government will spare us another election on it, and tell us what it feels should be the substitute for the Fill. 
I want to comment also on one other aspect of defence. There is now very clearly a changed strategy developing in the Indian Ocean and if there is a changed strategy developing in the Indian Ocean another look needs to be taken at the Royal / stralian Navy. I invite the Government's attention to the fact that the aircraft carriers, HMAS Sydney' and HMAS 'Melbourne', were master strokes of the Chifley Government, but as the Chiefley Government is now somewhat remote in history, the 2 Australian aircraft carriers are historic old ladies. If the Government still believes in the usefulness of such vessels, and probably there is a continuing usefulness of the aircraft carrier for the pursuit of submarines, it is about time the Government started looking at the purchase of another aircraft carrier, possibly one of those much more modern British carriers which may or may not continue in service for the United Kingdom. 
While on the subject of the Indian Ocean I would like to make a comment on the subject that was raised today in question time by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  in his persistent effort to get a more generous approach from the Government towards the disaster of the Pakistani refugees. India has spent on the refugees 120 crores of rupees. A crore is 10 million rupees, so that is about $ A 1.1 5m. From abroad has come 8.2 crores of rupees. This means that one-fifteenth of the cost has come in aid from all other countries to India. I think this is insufficiently generous. I do not want to get into the technicalities of whether India wants wheat or not but since it has had to ruin many of its plans in order to carry the burden of these people one thing it could very well do with is foreign exchange. I commend to the Government the suggestion of the honourable member for Holt that a gift of SI Om might be a well worthwhile Australian gesture towards the stability of the Indian sub-continent. 
Another matter I would like to draw to the Government's attention is that it had a former Minister for External Affairs, now the Governor-General, who in the Bihar famine crisis - this is very little realised in Australia - sent $35m in aid to India. The wonders of the $1.5m for the present crisis rather pale into insignificance when compared to the action that  Sir Paul  Hasluck took when he was Minister for External Affairs. I admire anybody who can twist the Treasury's arm to the tune of S3 5m. I remember once meeting  Sir Paul  in the streets of Perth after he made this gesture which saved the lives of millions of people in India. It really did. It represented 580,000 tons of wheat. I said to the gentleman who was then the honourable member for Curtin: 'Paul, if I were to bung a brick into the nearest shop window I guarantee I would get coast to coast publicity, but your action which has saved the lives of several million people does not cause a ripple'. It is a very strange scale of values that we have in our commentaries and I think it has had the unfortunate effect that the Government does not register in its own mind its previous generosity as a precedent for what it might do today for the situation in India. 
The last point I would like to make in the brief time available to me relates  'o  the unemployment position which is developing in the country and the possibility of assisting the farmer and rural communities. I ask the Government to investigate the possibility of commencing public works in the country, especially roads, and of giving financial aid to shire councils for urgent works that they all have. This may employ smaller farmers. It may employ people in the country towns who have lost work because of the slackness, and the expenditure in the country may be a defensive, temporary assistance for rural areas which are affected by the downward movement in the rural prices at the present time. This also was done during the late drought. In point of fact there were some shire councils that were rather better off in the drought period than they have been in periods of normal prosperity. 
I had wished to speak on some constitutional questions in Papua New Guinea. (Extension of time granted.) I thank the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  for moving for an extension of time. I am very surprised at this unwonted generosity. I can now discuss the points that I wanted to discuss about the constitution of Papua New Guinea. There is one human problem in Papua New Guinea which I think is urgent. 
One of the things we should remember is that the number of employed people in Papua New Guinea is a very small percentage of the population. The great bulk of the population of Papua New Guinea are self employed, growing their own food and so on, and this is rather fortunate for them. It is also rather fortunate for them in many areas where they can have their own gardens. It has been pointed out by research economists in Papua New Guinea that Australian industry and affluent Australian agriculture in Papua New Guinea are in fact subsidised out of the subsistence economy of the natives. That is to say we can only sustain the low wages that are paid because they are feeding themselves from their own economy, maintaining themselves in physical efficiency as a labour force, and by their own efforts they are subsidising people who are far more affluent than themselves. But there are areas that are exceptions to this. Port Moresby is an exception to this. You might be all right, if you have your own garden around Rabaul, getting a wage of $7 or $7.50 a week, but if you are getting $7 a week in Port Moresby and living in a shanty and not near your own gardens it very probably means tuberculosis for yourself, tuberculosis for your children and a very unsatisfactory condition. 
I  am disturbed at the inability of members of the House of Assembly to see these things. They are being trained in an automatic respectable reflex action. The price of everything is important except the price of labour. You only have to sit and listen to their debates to see that they have been trained and trained to regard any increase in wages as the last disaster and any increase in the price of anything else as something very desirable. If that goes on, it will create a problem for the House of Assembly in the future if, when Papua New Guinea governs itself, it governs itself on those assumptions. 
The second thing I want to say is that land is the vital question in Papua New Guinea. Land is almost a sacred object. Our land is like our skin' is one saying they have. 'Money goes but the land remains' is another saying they have - a very wise one perhaps from their point of view. This means that the acquisition of land from them for mining purposes has always encountered resistance. There is a burning grievance that back in 1884 the Germans took the land of the Tolai and it was passed from the former German expatriates to other expatriates and that it really belongs to them. I do not want to go into the merits or demerits of this. I merely point out that is is an instance of the importance of land in their thinking and' that each crisis we have run into has at base a crisis built upon the fact that they regard land as vitally important. 
If we go back to the tribal wars of the past, I do not know. Perhaps all those things can be sorted out. All I want to say is that the problem in Papua New Guinea is this local particular loyalty. The Tolai have no loyalty to the Bainings and vice versa. This is the problem 1 want to discuss in a minute. I accept entirely what the honourable member has to say about rivalries between tribes. I am concerned about this just as a fact of life and as a problem we have to deal with, but what I have undoubtedly found is that there is a resentment against the Highland majority, which is regarded as a manipulated Highland majority that would sit in the House of Assembly and pass measures for the taking of other people's land in Bougainville but would resist tooth and nail anybody's attempt to take their land. 
If we govern on these assumptions we are governing divisively. There must be a settlement between those things. 
There were utter disasters in Nigeria because the British on the whole favoured the Muslim north, which was quiescent and conservative and caused them very much less trouble than the Ibos and Yorubas in other regions and it produced the particularism and distinctiveness that became so disastrous for Nigeria in later time. I have said this in the House before, and I fear we are doing the same thing in Papua New Guinea. We are not conscious of it but I fear that this is what we are doing. 
I also fear our conservatism in our own belief about the Westminster system of government. The parties in this House correspond with broad economic groups. There are overlaps and exceptions, but by and large the Country Party represents the rural community and the farmer; by and large the Liberal Party represents the metropolitan middle class and business; by and large the Australian Labor Party represents the wage earner. There is no real corresponding structure in Papua New Guinea, hence there is not the basic party structure unless it is artificially fostered in the House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea. The classic Westminster system in its greatest days was a stately gavotte between liberals and conservatives who had some differences on how best to run a free enterprise economy but had a deep fundamental unity about the survival of the nation state. 
There is not that deep fundamental unity of nationalism in Papua New Guinea. There is this tendency to fragmentation. New Guinea nationalism is an idea in our mind. They never thought of it in 1884. They were not thinking of it in 1945. They have begun to think of it because it is a suggestion coming from without; it is not coming up from within them. I believe that in these circumstances there is not much tendency to unity, nor is there much tendency to disunity except on the question of land. People always say that it is hard where there is so little education to maintain national unity. I do not think it is the uneducated villager who threatens national unity. He gets on with his life. He is not particularly concerned with what is going on in Port Moresby, whether there is an expatriate government or whether it will be their own government in the future.  His  horizons are limited. He is not a threat to anything. The threat is this fear of the more advanced peoples on their land questions. 
I think that the party system in Papua New Guinea is entirely artificial. We have some features of the Swiss system in Papua New Guinea now. The Swiss system is for everybody in the parliament to elect the Ministry so that the Swiss Federal Council has liberals, conservatives, socialists and what-have-you in its Cabinet. Somehow or other they work out a policy on that basis. There is a  President  who is elected annually. Nobody in Switzerland - I have just come from Switzerland - can tell you who the  President  is. He is the  chairman  of the Council of Ministers for any given year and in that year he receives the credentials of the diplomats and acts as the head of state. It is rather a tragedy that Africa did not have that sort of presidency as its model because those who became presidents and prime ministers in Africa proceeded to make themselves dictators. The modesty of the Swiss position might have been one of the best correctives for Africa, and it may well be one of the best correctives for Papua New Guinea. 1 think that the classless society like Papua New Guinea an all party Parliament or an all elements of opinion Parliament, with an elected Cabinet and an annual  President  might be the best system. A cantonal system, or a federal system, would enable the people of the canton of Bougainville to be sure that the government in Port Moresby would not be able to take their land. The people in the canton of the Gazelle Peninsula or New Britain could be quite sure that they themselves would settle the problems facing them. Otherwise, the attempt to impose unity on them in the manner of conflict that we have been exhibiting may well be disastrous for the future of Papua New Guinea. 
I desire to ask the Minister for External Territories a question concerning reports that there has been variance between  Mr Matthias  To Liman and  Mr Newman  in the House of Assembly about a delay in introducing certain educational ordinances in Papua New Guinea.  Mr Newman  allegedly stated that there was no cause of delay in Canberra and  Mr To  Liman stated that the delay was caused in Canberra. I ask the Minister: Were these ordinances or regulations referred to the Ministry here and, if so, with what result? 
The Opposition welcomes the statement made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr 
Sinclair) as far as it goes, indicating that another $1.5m in food, shelter and medical supplies is being donated by the Australian Government to assist in this crisis. However, we feel that the aid is far too tied to specific commodities. In the administration of this form of relief, a grant of financial assistance in foreign exchange to the Indian Government, and I presume also to the Pakistani Government, would give a greater flexibility to their aid programmes. 
I do not know what the current figure is but on the latest figures I saw the Indian Government had spent on refugees 120 crores of rupees. I understand that a crore represents 10 million rupees. Also, donations from outside amounted to 8.2 crores which is one-fifteenth of what the maintenance of refugees had cost the Indian Government. This expenditure has meant that all sorts of development projects in India have had to go by the board because that country's budgetary effort has been distorted by this sudden and unexpected expenditure on 9 million people who haderupted over their borders into India as a result of the crisis in East Pakistan. 
The Minister mentioned the Indian Government's preference for rice in the refugee camps. However, he slurred over the question of wheat in East Pakistan itself. There is no statement that the Government of Pakistan prefers rice to wheat. On the contrary, there is a reference to the fact that the Government of Pakistan receives some wheat aid now. 
Yes. One of the factors about the preference for rice is that although there are considerable wheat consuming populations in both parts of the Indian sub-continent, these people do not have the means of turning wheat into immediately nutritious and edible food as they do in the handling of rice. I remind the House of the extremely generous contributions that were made by  Sir Paul  Hasluck during the Bihar famine. These contributions were worth $35m and anyone who can screw this amount of money out of the Australian Treasury has my admiration. This contribution was in the form of 580,000 tons of wheat. This type of aid was made feasible when  Sir Paul  Hasluck set up in India 6 magnificent modern bakeries each of which, as 1 remember, had the capacity to produce 1 million loaves of bread a day. If we turn wheat into bread we have an immediate palatable means of supplying food to people even if they are traditional rice eaters. That seemed to me to be one of the valuable features of the aid that was given by Australia in that earlier crisis. 
I am sure that both the Indian and Pakistani Governments would be grateful for financial assistance to spend in the ways that occur to them immediately. I do not belittle the expenditure by Australia of another $1.5m for 9 million refugees. However, anybody looking at this contribution could assume that it will not mean that there will be a vast transformation of the position of the refugees. If rice can be obtained from Burma any foreign exchanges can be given to obtain that rice, or if rice can be obtained from other neighbouring countries, a financial grant by the Australian Government as a form of aid is something worth considering. This form of assistance would enable India, or Pakistan for that matter, to mobilise the productive resources of other countries than Australia. If the preference is for rice, our capacity to provide it is not as great as is that of some of the neighbours of India and Pakistan. Therefore I ask the Government again to consider not merely grants in kind and some  gFants  in cash to meet freights and some grants in personnel to carry out medical work, but also financial assistance to 2 countries which are notoriously short of foreign exchange to enable them to draw on the resources of countries other than Australia at Australia's expense. 
I do not believe that monopoly of concern for this sort of thing is on either side of the House. But I ask that there be a restoration of the idea of adequacy of effort which seemed to me to be one of the characteristics of a former Foreign Minister when this sort of crisis occurred. I would remind honourable members that the Chifley Government during the time of Britain's crisis put through United Kingdom aid Acts amounting to 45 m in the days when the basic wage was 4 5s a week. That Government also gave 25m to the United Nations Children's Emergency Fund. There was a conception of raising a sum of money that wouldmake some real impact on the situation. Welcome as the $1.5m worth of aid is, let us face the fact that we cannot regard a contribution of this size to be spent on a population of 9 million people, which is almost equal to the population of Australia, as being a very, very significant one. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Graham)  adjourned. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizen., of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern times. 
That only quick settlement of the Bangla DeshPakistan conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. We therefore urge the honourable members to: 
Raise to $10m Australian aid to refugees now in India from East Pakistan. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition  received. 
Taxation: Donations for Overseas Relief  Mr REID  - I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, 'he Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Government grant income tax deduction for donations over $2 made towards the relief of overseas disaster areas. 
That this be effected with haste to ensure the maximum possible aid to those at present in refugee camps and those in danger of famine in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to speak briefly on the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and then to touch very briefly on an education question. In the early part of this debate officers from the CSIRO were in the gallery. I do not know whether they have given up in despair that nothing will be said about the CSIRO, but 1 want to say one thing; I want to comment on the set-up of the Ministry. The CSIRO is conducting research into a very large number of industrial questions, but they relate mainly to the agricultural and primary section of industry. The CSIRO derives its funds from the Commonwealth Government and from private industry, but private industry which contributes funds to the CSIRO is overwhelmingly agricultural. The agricultural and pastoral sectors of industry have put most into the CSIRO, and the amount received from secondary industry has been disappointing. 
The CSIRO has carried out research into a great diversity of subjects, such as weather, wildlife, soil science, agronomy, rain studies, air pollution - you name it. There has been a tremendous range of scientific studies. Perhaps at one stage some of these matters were not thought to have as direct a bearing on our national life as they are beginning to have. For instance, studies of wildlife are beginning to be more revealing at this stage of history than perhaps they were earlier. But I do not believe that the CSIRO and government activity in science should any longer be attached to the portfolio of Education and Science. I do not believe that we should have a portfolio of Education and Science. 1 believe that we ought to have separate portfolios for education on the one hand and science and technology on the other. I believe that we will increase the scientific activities of the Commonwealth Government or of the CSIRO in the fields of secondary industry if we use the expression 'science and technology' as is done in the United Kingdom. 
It is very clear that the education portfolio is becoming increasingly onerous as Commonwealth activities in education increase. It would be valid to have a Minister for Education to handle the university activities of the Commonwealth Government alone. This is apart from the increasing Commonwealth intervention into the field of secondary education, both public and church. I think that the time is overdue when, if science is to get the attention it deserves, it should come under a separate portfolio and should be allied with technology. I believe that this is a must. This development will take place in the future. I think it would be good to make the decision very soon. Having a separate portfolio for science and technology would show that the Commonwealth does not regard the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation as an adjunct to something else, as it has been for so long. It was attached to the Prime Minister's Department and is now attached to the portfolio of education. 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid)  in the course of his address referred to religious instruction in State schools as it existed in Victoria, paradoxically as a result of the intervention of Archbishop Mannix who at one stage said that Catholics should not be called on to pay taxes for Protestant education and got scriptural education knocked out of Victorian State schools and then, rather illogically, turned round and asked for assistance for Catholic schools. He provoked the logical retort that if Catholics should not pay taxes for Protestant education Protestants should not pay taxes for Catholic education. He had asked for it more or less, and he got it. He bedevilled the whole question of state aid for another 30 or 40 years as a result of that intervention. But the banning of scriptural education in Victorian schools does not have a parallel in every State. In my teaching days I used to have to teach a course that was called scripture, with frightful warnings that I must not enter the field of dogmatic and polemical theology, according to the Education Act of Western Australia. I had no desire nor any qualifications to enter the field of dogmatic or polemical theology, but we used to teach a set course of scripture lessons. 
What took place in Victoria as a result of certain accidents back in  1913  does not have a parallel in every State of the Commonwealth. The church schools are indeed church schools. We hear this euphemism of independent schools' all the time. It is a misnomer. Huntingtower is a Christian Science school. The Friends School is a Quaker school. Carey in Melbourne is a Baptist school. Any 'independent' school one can name is attached to some church. As far as Catholic schools are concerned their undoubted intention is the promulgation of the Catholic faith. It seems to me that realistically, if the increasing burden of education is to be carried by such private bodies they will have to come to accept what was once offered, I understand, by a former director of education in Western Australia. He said: 'If you cannot carry the burden of teaching because you no longer have enough people in the orders to staff the schools, why not assume control of certain State schools, which we will allow you to do? We will appoint only Catholic teachers from the State schools service to those staffs additional to whatever from your orders you are prepared to put there.' I understand that this was rejected by the Church in that State but that the German Pallottine order accepted it because it had parallels with their experience in Germany. 
A Catholic priest in my own electorate who is a Yugoslav and who has recently been back to Communist Yugoslavia says that Tito, to unify his country against Russia in case of a Russian attack, has arrived at much the same solution. He said to the Jesuits, to the De la Salle order or to the Marist Brothers, whichever order it was: 'Here is a state school. You staff it. You will be paid by the state. Those people who want their children to have a religious education may send their children to this school.' This seems to me to meet every requirement of those who are primarily concerned about the Church teaching a faith but not primarily concerned perhaps about its independently owning property. 
It seems to me that if the church has difficulty - and I am quite concerned that people should have freedom to give their children the education which they want to give them - one of the solutions may well be that those Catholics who are part of the State school teaching staff should be free to teach in church schools. The Commonwealth cannot arrange that in the States but it could make that arrangement in the Northern Territory. If it set up as it should in the Australian Capital Territory an independent education authority, it could make such an arrangement in the Australian Capital Territory. I do not know whether such a process would be objected to today as it was some years ago. I doubt whether it would be in view of the difficulties that there are in finding staff in the non-government sector and in the church school sector. Other schools - I do not say this as a criticism but as a statement of fact - from other churches in the main have not attempted to reach every child with their form of religious education. They are in fact elite schools, and I do not believe that they are in the same financial straits as are the Catholic parish schools. I believe that from the point of view of meeting the needs of children we should look at the needs of the children and the needs of the schools and give priority to those who are in greatest need and not to those who are in schools which, because they can charge high fees, can provide adequate facilities. 
I give  notice that on the next day of sitting I will move that a committee of the House be appointed to take into consideration the petitions for aid and relief for West Bengal and East Pakistan. 
I ask the Minister for External Territories: Is it a fact that the World Health Organisation has identified Port Moresby as one of 4 places in the Pacific having a serious health problem,  in particular a rising incidence of tuberculosis? If this is so, what is the response of the Territory Administration to this situation? 
-1 second the motion, and in doing so, I should like to draw the attention of the House to the petitions that were presented this afternoon. At least a dozen of them must have been on this subject. They came from every State of the Commonwealth. So there is public concern about this matter. I believe, therefore, that this is an urgent matter and that we are justified in suspending Standing Orders because of this. A responsible officer of the United Nations has said that no matter what aid is given now, something like 400,000 people will die before Christmas, but that if this aid is organised now something like 400.000 people will be saved in the months after Christmas. So it is a question not only of Australian action but also of action by the Australian Government to mobilise other nations in this situation. 
I am sure that the petitioners have been concerned primarily about the humanitarian position but the world has another interest in this situation beyond what ought to be its humanitarian interest. The other interest is that a war between India and Pakistan will be made more likely if the outside reaction to the situation is one of indifference, because it can be concluded that if the refugee problem is to continue it might be better to strike a blow at the government that one side might conceive as organising the refugee position or the other side might conceive as encouraging the movement of Bangla Desh, and such a war could become a world war. I believe that the interest of outside people in the displaced persons on both sides of the frontier is one factor of sanity which might well allay the situation and diminish the tendency of the 2 sides to go towards war. I therefore believe that this Parliament should discuss freely, as an urgent matter, what should be the level of aid. We are not wedded exclusively to the terms of the motion of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  but the terms of the motion of the honourable member- 
-I was not debating the merits of the matter; I was merely saying that the motion is a vehicle for this House to discuss what ought to be the level of aid, and that therefore, as this question of aid and of the interest of the outside world is an important one, both for humanitarian reasons and for maintaining peace in the sub-continent, which includes India and Pakistan. I believe that the Standing Orders ought to be suspended. 
We would have reason to be depressed if we felt that the speech of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  expressed Government thinking. He appeared to be gratified with the situation of Aboriginals as it exists in Australia today and to find as his only ground of criticism a description of a building that was put up by the Gair Government many years ago and he invited the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  to consider that as a Labor achievement. We ill need an attack of modesty on this. Although constantly there have been rising expenditures on Aboriginal affairs, nevertheless it is always possible, it seems to me, for someone like the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  to point out that Aboriginal infant mortality is rising, Aboriginal neo-natal mortality is rising and Aboriginal child mortality is rising. Although from time to time we have new statements and new government offensives in some direction on Aboriginal welfare always there later comes the shock. 
The honourable member for Kennedy appeared to believe that the aspects of Aboriginal policy in Queensland that are not gratifying belong to the far past. I invite the honourable member's attention to the January 1970 issue of the entirely non-political 'Medical Journal of Australia'. I refer again to one of the conditions mentioned by the honourable member for Prospect - the condition of chronic protein deficiency in Aboriginal children which precludes normal growth, which warps the development of the brain and which determines that these children will never be able to function academically and educationally equal to other children. If one were to say that this was something intrinsically Aboriginal that nobody can help, one might with regret make the statement. But the tragic thing which was expressed in the article of the 'Medical Journal of Australia' was that these conditions did not apply to Aboriginal children on the mission stations; they applied to Aboriginal children on Queensland Government settlements. The missions had had the intelligence to feed protein supplements to Aboriginal children in infancy and early childhood. Therefore a completely different picture emerges of a large number of Aboriginal children - a large enough number for the sampling to be significant on the mission stations that were analysed in Queensland and on the Queensland Government settlements. This pointed home straight to the Government of Queensland. 
The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  made certain statements about, or took a certain attitude towards, Queensland Aboriginal policy which, I think, was very salutary. But for reasons which had nothing to do with Aboriginal welfare when there was a change of Prime Minister, a new, ingratiating attitude was taken towards the Government of Queensland with this egregious failure as its record and it has been left in immunity. I hope that the Government of Queensland has taken the hint that was given by the right honourable member for Higgins and has started to reform itself. So far we have not seen the evidence of this. 
I believe that in the referendum of May 1967 the Commonwealth was deliberately vested by the Australian people with full responsibility for the Aboriginal people. This was the only referendum in all Australian history that was carried in every electorate and, I think one can say, it was carried by overwhelming majorities in every polling place. Although the Australian people do not have the technical knowledge as to what ought to be Aboriginal policy they showed that they had a real concern that a new deal was necessary. Yet the Government of Australia, in relation to Aboriginals, proceeds now as if the referendum of May 1967 had never been carried. And I am not surprised. 
For a long time the governmental forces did not want that referendum. All that the right honourable  Sir Robert  Menzies wanted was an alteration of the Constitution that Aboriginals would be counted in the census. He did not want a transference of power and behind him was a majority that did not want that transference of power all the time. There was the accident of the change of the attitude of the late right honourable Harold Holt, the Transference of Power Referendum was promulgate andthepeoplevotedoverwhelm- ingly for it. But the power which was transferred by the people was never wanted and we continue to act as if the referendum had never taken place. 
I am not going to say that the Commonwealth example in the Northern Territory is so overwhelmingly superior to the States that this constitutes a case for exclusive Commonwealth action. But I believe that until the Commonwealth will face the fact that the responsibility is exclusively the Commonwealth's, there will be no traction in this policy. So long as claims come from a State such as that it thinks it needs so much for Aboriginal housing we get into the pattern that exists - the depressing pattern of separate and colliding sovereignties which is illustrated at every Premiers' Conference. A State puts in its claim, the assumption is made that too much is being asked for and the claim is scaled down. 
The Government of Western Australia is faced with the fact that on the television screen there can be shown Aboriginals living within 10 miles of the Perth General Post Office in what would be the equivalent of very bad hen houses. There has been a movement in population to the city. Because of the present depressed position of the rural economy the seasonal work available for Aboriginals on farms has declined. They come into the towns looking for work. There is no housing for them and they live under unsatisfactory conditions. The position in the metropolitan areas dramatises more nearly whatis true in outlying country towns and on reserves near country towns. 
The State Government might come up with the conclusion that something like $19m is needed for Aboriginal housing. However, it would receive a very small fraction of that amount. The fraction is so small that it does not catch up with the aggravation of the problem caused by new movements of the population. Therefore one can describe the situation as more depressing. Were it the Commonwealth's own department which said: 'You need $19m here for housing', there would be an entirely different reaction. The buck stops here. 
The people of Australia in a referendum decided that on Aboriginal affairs the buck stops here. I am not interested whether 
StateLiberal  governments succeed or fail or whether Labor governments succeed or fail, if the responsibility finally rests here. The responsibility is on us and on this Parliament to. find the means. I am not going to fling a lot of cheap criticism at the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  who is sitting at the table. There have been tragedies in Aboriginal health. Maybe the tragedies in Aboriginal health became apparent only when Aboriginals concentrated in settlements. But certainly their concentration in settlements from a nomadic way of life spread disease such as tuberculosis, leprosy and so on rapidly among them. As a bare minimum, as a beginning, let us look at health. Then let us actually commit ourselves to reducing their infant child and neo-natal mortality to the European levels, even if we have no other objectives than that. I know that consequentially that will bring in housing, nutrition and all sorts of other things. But let us get definable objects and achieve them, not vague things like assimilations or integrations which put the Administration under no discipline of achievement at all. 
It seems to me that one of the major problems in Papua New Guinea is that not enough of the leadership in the House of Assembly or in the local government councils has made a conscious, intelligent commitment to create national unity. I do not underestimate how difficult the creation of national unity, of a genuine sentiment of national unity, is in a country like Papua New Guinea. 1 do not want to go through the familiar argument that it took England hundreds of years from its tribal state to create national unity. There were figures such as Alfred who could create it but then the country slipped back into disunity; then Edward the Confessor could bring about unity again; then there was the conquest, and so on. I do not think that any country will recapitulate the history of the Middle Ages; nevertheless national unity came about in most countries because some leader and some people decided to create it. 
The most disturbing thing about Papua New Guinea is that there does not appear to have been among enough leaders - if among any leaders - a conscious decision that the goal of their life is to create a united Papua New Guinea. The Pangu Party, whose name means Papua and New Guinea United, did state this goal of national unity on its platform. For perhaps good reasons and for perhaps bad reasons it has not been particularly popular with the Government. 
But outside that Party there has hardly even been an articulation of national unity as an objective. One thing that I think honourable members on both sides of this House can do is to encourage the people to achieve that goal. If we say: 'How is it to be done?' the answer is: 'None of us knows!' But until somebody makes a wilful decision that that is what is going to be done it is not likely that national unity will be created. 
Nor do I draw false analogies between Papua New Guinea and the difficulties of national unity in some African countries. Some African countries had very, very large disputing entities. The Ibos of Nigeria numbered some 10 million. The Haussa numbered somewhere in the vicinity of 20 million. Actually Nigeria was a compulsory union of peoples who might individually have been regarded as nations. So when there was conflict between them there was conflict on a very large scale. I do not believe that there would be any conflict on a very large scale in Papua New Guinea because the tribal units are not large enough - if the people reverted to tribal loyalties - to carry out war. The tragedy of Nigeria was that it was rich enough to be able to sustain several years of war to the utter ruin of the country. The things that seem to me to threaten unity in Papua New Guinea are relatively few. There is a tendency to say that the lack of education threatens national unity. I doubt that the illiterate villager is a threat to national unity at all. I do not think he is worrying very much what the Government in Port Moresby is doing. It is only in areas where the people have felt that the Government in Port Moresby threatened their land as in Bougainville and perhaps in the Gazelle Peninsula, that there has developed a kind of a conscious secessionist movement. This land insecurity wherever it has developed has been the basis of violence and the basis of the threat to national unity. 
I have said many times that I am extremely critical of the wage structure in Papua New Guinea. I do not think it corresponds with justice. I do not want to reiterate that except to say that we are deceiving ourselves if we put forward the proposition that some entity or other called New Guinea cannot afford to pay adequate wages. There is no entity called 
New Guinea paying wages anyway. If there were a system of arbitration there, the question that would arise would be whether Burns Philp and Co. Ltd, W. R. Carpenter and Co. Ltd and Steamships Trading Co. Ltd can afford to pay adequate wages. If there were any adjudication between employer and employee nobody would be going about saying there was an entity called New Guinea and what it could afford. I do not want to exaggerate this because the number of people who are in the wage economy is relatively small. It is probable that there are not many more than 100,000 in what we could call a wage or salary sector of the economy in Papua New Guinea, even throwing in plantation labour, and in a large population of 2.5 million there are very many more people who are living in a traditionalsubsistence economy and who are not affected by the level of wages. 
I do not want to be complacent about that because after all. crises in nations are very  rarely  created by majorities. Crises in nations can come from some strategically placed sector  in  the community and it is quite possible that those who have come into a wage and salary kind of life are able to threaten national unity if there is profound discontent among them. We have had some great good fortune that we have no reason to believe will continue. One of the threats to social stability throughout the Pacific has been the development of shanty towns and colonies of unemployed, and these have been centres of crime and delinquency. We have been extremely fortunate in Papua New Guinea that although these places have developed there as badly as in almost anywhere else in the Pacific, the people who have come to dwell in shanty towns have come in tribal units and the tribe can sit with a pretty severe discipline on the young people of the group which has moved in. There has been somebody in the shanty towns responsible for the behaviour of younger people and there has not been to the same extent as there has been in other areas of the Pacific the breakdown of tribal disciplinary sanctions among shanty dwellers in Papua New Guinea. Nevertheless, the situation is unsatisfactory. 
I was alarmed to get correspondence from missionaries in the Bougainville area whom I respect speaking about the position of migrant workers who have been taken from other parts of Papua New Guinea to work for construction companies which have been carrying out construction ancilliary to the development of the mining areas there. These workers have become unemployed when their work is finished and have not been repatriated. It is pretty well known in this House that people who originally said many years ago - and did not say it as a Black Power slogan either, but as a genuine conviction - 'black is beautiful', are the people of Buka and Bougainville, who are the blackest people in Papua New Guinea and have the habit of calling the browner people of other areas 'red men'. The unemployed who have come from other areas and are living in shanty towns developing in the Bougainville area are not terribly liked by the indigenous people of the locality and are referred to as "red men'. This tension that has developed there, according to my missionary informants, seems to be causing further receding of whatever little sentiment there was on the island of Bougainville for national unity. Of course Bougainville waa originally part of the Solomon Islands. It had some difficulty regarding itself as part of Papua New Guinea. I am disturbed at reports of the demoralisation of unemployed workers on Bougainville. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
That to the motion that the House take note of the paper the following words be added: 'but the House is of the opinion that the situation in West Bengal and East Pakistan is such that the level of Australian aid should be raised to the equivalent of at least $1 for each person in Australia.' 
Any additional aid being given by the Commonwealth Government in this situation is most welcome and therefore we welcome the $2.Sm which the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has indicated tonight will be an additional gift. The question is this: Can it be said that the Australian effort is commensurate with the country's standing and resources? We must draw a comparison with a country of comparable standards of living and perhaps greater responsibilities - the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has given Stg37m which is almost exactly $A80m. 
The United Kingdom has 4 times our population and on the same basis of giving, the Australian contribution would have been $20m. We are now reaching $5.5m. This is a crisis of human factors, as the Minister rightly reminds us, but Australian assistance in the previous crisis in Pakistan - the crisis which was caused by the tidal wave disaster - was tardy and ungenerous. If we tend to flinch from giving aid in this crisis because we think it may be a continuing development - if there is a continuing situation in East Pakistan that will produce more refugees - still we have to look back with disappointment at the Australian reaction to the disaster which was not man made and which was not continuing in East Pakistan. 
The inability of the West Pakistan authorities to assist and the indifference of the outside world undoubtedly played a part in East Pakistan's dissatisfaction with remaining in the Pakistan federation. No doubt it was a factor in producing the immense vote for Mujibur Rahman and finally producing the crisis between East and West Pakistan which lies at the root of the present situation. We are afraid that manifestations of outside indifference may have further disastrous political consequences in the Indian sub-continent. The world did not react with the greatest of sympathy to the tidal wave disaster - certainly we did not in this country. As we have said before - it bears saying again - if the reaction of the outside world to the situation of the refugees is one of indifference, then there will be greater pressure on the Government or elements within the political authorities in India and perhaps in Pakistan to try to solve the refugee problem at the root, and voices are expressing the old illusion that you are going to be able to solve this problem by a war. I do not want to labour that point any further than to say that a responsible attitude by the outside world is a facor which will make for peace in the Indian sub-continent, and I stress again the importance of peace in the Indian sub-continent. 
India is a country which matters far more to us than some of the countries that we have said were of major strategic interest to us. No-one can dominate Asia who does not first of all dispose of India. Lying behind this situation is the fear that Pakistan may become China's instrument for disposing of India. I think that as time goes on the likelihood of this decreases, but we should remember that there is a potential world war situation in the Indian sub-continent. Those are weighty considerations why our action should be generous and not tardy. Of course, the Indian authorities will express thanks for any aid that is given at all, but can anyone seriously believe that if the aid had been four or five times as great they would not have appreciated it four or five times more than the aid that has been given? While the Minister has said again and again that all the aid we are giving has been effectively deployed, it must be remembered that the smaller the aid one gives the more certainly one can assure that it is effectively deployed. If one is giving very small medical aid, then a very small medical team can see that this gets into a situation of crisis among the refugees. 
But there is no doubt that one of India's greatest needs in food imports or in any other respect is for foreign exchange to help her in coping with her problems. Foreign exchange means a claim on the production of the outside world. If Australia's gift increased India's resources in foreign exchange, the burden of this unexpected development would be lifted from the budget of India. The Indian Government had immense developmental plans. Many of these have had to go down the drain because of spending on the refugee problem. I think I have said previously that the total cost at a point of time about a month ago of this refugee problem was 120 million crores of rupees - a crore being 10 million rupee* - and at that stage the outside contribution amounted to 8.2 million crores, or one-fifteenth of the cost. Five-year plans and developmental projects of the Indian Government have had to be set aside in facing this unexpected incursion of refugees into an extremely sensitive area of the Indian sub-continent. 
Bengal has been politically volatile. Several times the constitution of Bengal has been suspended with President's rule, into this Bengal situation have now come desperate people. Not so far from this part of Bengal is a narrow neck of land known as Naxalbari which joins India to the northeast frontier areas, and in that Naxalbari area has been one of the most vicious guerilla movements, one of the most powerful anarchist movements in the world, the Naxalite movement, and any sort of chaos is grist to its mill. The Naxalite movement has spread over parts of India, but it is particularly characteristic of the north-east, and it has had some power in Calcutta and Bengal. 
The Australian Labor Party has been making some public comments on this matter. It came out into public last July at the Launceston conference of the Labor Party. Widespread concern has been expressed in the Labor movement about Australia's unreadiness for any of these humanitarian crises which have developed in the world. The decision was made that as part of Australia's defence forces we should own a substantial hospital ship. Any who saw in Indonesia some years ago the American hospital ship, which was ."&gt;art of America's naval force, moving into a situation in Djakarta, bring in a magnificently equipped floating hospital with an excellent staff, could see how effective that form of aid was. We believe that there are many situations in the southern hemisphere where, if Australia had had a hospital ship, it could have moved in and given great assistance. There is no doubt that if a hospital ship had moved into Calcutta it would have added to the facilities to treat wounded people, sick people and people who are suffering as a consequence of their displacement in the political crisis that developed in East Pakistan. 
Not long ago Yahya Khan appeared on television, and he had the grace to say he believed that the Pakistan Government had made a mistake in excluding reporters from the outside world to see the situation. If this indicated that he was now willing for people to see the situation, it was a sign of real grace that I would be happy to see the outside world follow up. He also believes that the people who fled have fled in an unjustified panic. I believe that we should be following this up. If he is right in saying that the panic was unjustified, then there should be no objection to allowing the outside world to see the situation. Presumably if people have moved from their homes, not all of them have crossed the border, and there must be some problems concerning relief and resettlement in 
East Pakistan. There are still the consequences of the tidal wave. I would be glad to see the Australian Government actively concerned in this situation and looking for some way of providing aid in East Pakistan as well, with the assistance directed to people who are displaced or who are refugees in the fighting. 
It is a matter for concern that there are reports of mobilisation of both India and Pakistan. Both of those countries are friends of ours. They both retain membership of the Commonwealth of Nations. They both have certain historical associations with a former empire in the same way as we have. It would be of immense advantage to the world if the position in the Indian sub-continent were so settled that what was once the Indian empire - India, Pakistan, Burma and Ceylon - could form some sort of a common market. Those wishes are for the future. If our approach to this matter is that we take every step that we can to support a sane settlement, to bring in the view of the outside world, the searchlight of world public opinion, and to show that we are prepared to pay a price ourselves, I believe that we will be able to play a part in bringing peace to the sub-continent and also meeting the needs of the refugees. We welcome this additional grant by the Commonwealth Government. We hope that this is not the final act of the Commonwealth Government. We have no doubt that Australian public opinion is prepared for generosity in this matter. Correspondence that we have received, conversations back in our own constituencies and petitions which have been read in this House are all manifestations of this concern. 
In moving this amendment the Opposition does not think that $ 12.75m, if that is what $1 a head of the Australian population would total, should be a final statement on this issue. We believe that it would be an act which would be an earnest of Australia's intention to act effectively. I have seen this Parliament make an impact on situations. I remember that the Chifley Government once granted 25m in relief and then 20m to the same place. There have been quite generous grants in other areas. When  Sir Paul  Hasluck was Minister for Foreign Affairs grants were made in connection with the Bihar famine. I have spoken of that already, and I do not intend to speak of it again. In moving this amendment the Opposition is not trying to score points off the government. It genuinely believes that this refugee question should provoke greater generosity than has been exhibited hitherto and accordingly I commend the amendment which I outlined at the beginning of my remarks. 
I think that the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  is to be congratulated on the manner in which the inquiry into this affair was held. I think that he struck a balance between directing the searchlight of truth on to HMAS 'Leeuwin' and at the same time respecting the code in the community that juveniles charged for any sort of misdemeanour or crime are entitled to secrecy of the proceedings in which they are charged, which is the normal procedure, for instance, in the children's court. I think that the standing of HMAS 'Leeuwin' has been thoroughly vindicated. It is a quite remarkable institution. If any honourable members would like to look at the institution - I am not saying exactly look at it, although it would be very good if they went there - they would see that there are 650 young people between the ages of 15 and 17 years and learn that there is astonishingly little trouble there. It would be true to say that this is a testimony to the discipline of the place. It is also a testimony to the selection of the recruits. 
HMAS 'Leeuwin' is an important institution because it can be found from reports such as this one that in events which have taken place in areas like the Gulf of Tonkin an ordinary naval rating who is a sonar operator can create an international misunderstanding if he is not competent in what he is doing. It is not merely important that officers should be thoroughly trained; it is now very important that the whole personnel of the Navy should be regarded as a highly expert body of men. HMAS Leeuwin' is devoted to producing a highly expert body of men and I believe it is doing this in a highly expert way. 
I wanted to say only one thing about initiation ceremonies which develop in all sorts of places where young people are involved. I know from the experience of my son being the  President  of the Guild of Undergraduates of the University of Western Australia that in that university the point was reached where the Guild authorities would disaffiliate any society which engaged in initiation ceremonies. The Guild decided finally that such ceremonies were intolerable. In his terms of reference Judge Rapke had to consider the following: 
Whether there is evidence of the existence of any forms of initiation or similar practices in HMAS 'Leeuwin' which involved organised physical violence, degrading or bullying behaviour. 
There is a curious way in which a matter like this will always appear in the Press. Some years ago some boys from 'Leeuwin' were at a dance and one of them very brutally assaulted the drummer of the dance band. He was legally sued. No particular searchlight was directed at 'Leeuwin' because of his behaviour. Had that same boy done the same thing to someone inside the college, somehow or other it would have been peculiarly and directly regarded as the responsibility of the Navy. In a way this is understandable. I am making the point that it will become a naval matter if the misbehaviour is in circumstances where it is not under civil or public scrutiny. The personal defects of the boy concerned are no greater if he directs that brutality at one of his fellows than if he directs it at a dance band leader in some other circumstances, but the Navy will find its prestige involved. For this reason I make this comment on initiation ceremonies. The judge's terms of reference did not worry so much about initiation ceremonies but whether they involved organised physical violence, degrading or bullying behaviour. There is always a tendency to backslide when there are initiation ceremonies. They start as an ordinary, rather funny procedure. There is a tendency for older people to be rather sentimental about such ceremonies. They say that boys will be boys, that youth will be youth and that these sort of things will happen. They wink the eye and the idea begins to develop that here is a ritual in which the norms of behaviour can be exceeded. So the practice developed in the University of Adelaide, for instance, until there was a death. The practice has developed in a number of universities until there has been a death. 
I believe it is important for those in any educational institution, and particularly where they have the authority of the Navy, to say quite simply and straight out that there will be no initiation ceremonies. Never mind the sentimentality about boys will be boys or youth will be youth. I hope it will be contrary to the regulations of HMAS 'Leeuwin' that there will be any initiation ceremonies of any kind. I am not saying that there have been, or that they are bad. I have total confidence in Commodore Ramsay and I have the highest respect for the institution. I am merely saying what I think is the path of wisdom about any sort of initiation ceremony. If such ceremonies are totally impermissible they cannot start to degenerate of develop in any direction. The parents who send their youngsters into an institution like this are not anticipating that their children will be put through any initiation ceremony other than the proper induction procedures of the Navy. 
It could be disastrous if someone was injured in an initiation ceremony in any of the Service's institutions and the institution, the Navy, the Army or whatever authority it was, was sued by the parents of that young person. In the resulting uproar the prestige of the institution would be damaged. Parents who are on the edge of a decision about allowing their children to go into HMAS 'Leuwin' - there are people in Queensland and Victoria who send their children thousands of miles away for the first time and they do so because of their complete confidence in the Navy - could be influenced by adverse publicity and the marginal decision would go against recruitment and against the development of an efficient service. 
I believe that Judge Rapke's report - the one that I have seen - and the indications given by the Minister rightly vindicate the institution. It has tremendous prestige. I know the excellent behaviour of the young people because, perforce, they ail have to live in my electorate. I hear the reactions of the people who are their sponsors. I see their demeanor in the streets of Fremantle and Perth and it Is habitually excellent. Sometimes, because they have their hair short back and sides, they have to take provocations and where I have actually seen this they have done it extremely well. I believe that they maintain a standard. It is unfortunate that there has been the occasion when the standards have been departed from and 'Leeuwin' has suffered from the way the matter has been written up. I think Judge Rapke's report is a vindication. I think also that there is an element of warning. While it is important that initiation ceremonies should not involve organised physical violence, degrading of bullying behaviour, I do not think there should be any initiation ceremonies of any kind. 

 Mr ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Dr MACKAY (Evans- Minister for the Navy) - I assure the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  that as I understand it, and as Judge Rapke's report would indicate, organised initiation ceremonies, or a pattern of bastardisation, etc., have never been a part of the programme at Leeuwin'. To the best of my knowledge from reading this extensive report and from assurances of the officers, there is no form of initiation at 'Leeuwin'. From time to time there are instances of individual behaviour which would indicate that a person with some seniority, of months only, feels that he has, therefore, a prerogative to require a newcomer to do something subservient. This is not related to an official or unofficial initiation process of any kind. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  said that Admiral Crabb was responsible for introducing dress reforms in the Navy. This is not so; it was Admiral Dovers, the Admiral commanding the Fleet, who made certain such suggestions. 
I  think that the criticism of the editor of the Australian' for his failure to check the authenticity of the letter is much less substantial than another criticism that can be offered. It must be extremely difficulty for the editor of a national newspaper to find out whether every letter that is sent into him comes from a real person. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  spoke about letters signed by people in public life. If I send a letter to the 'West Australian' it is the custom of that newspaper to ring me and ask me if I in fact wrote the letter. So that newspaper when it knows the person who has signed a letter checks that he is not being impersonated. 
I think the criticism of the editor of the Australian' is fundamentally a different one - the sheer lack of political nous in accepting the letter. When there was a series of articles beforehand on tariff protection and all that sort of thing, anybody wilh an elementary acquaintance with this Parliament would know that if anybody came here and offered, shall we say, any of the members of the Opposition or any of the back benchers a bribe to get some administrative favour he would want his head read. There is nothing that a private member of Parliament can offer anybody administratively. If someone came to mc and asked me for tariff protection for his product, there is absolutely nothing that T or any other member of this Parliament or for that matter any Minister could do. A complete lack of acquaintance with this Parliament is evident. 
For the editor of the 'Australian' to accept the idea that people go round the lobbies of Canberra offering bribes of $10,000, which is one of the points of the letter, is really quite astonishing. The structure of this Parliament ought to be known to people. Even Ministers cannot make radical departures in administrative decisions without the Cabinet wanting to know why and without the whole structure of his department being, involved. The belief that this institution is an extremely easy one to bribe is a complete misapprehension of the procedures and the very concept of this Parliament. That is what astonishes rae about the letter. I am not surprised that having sought to track this man down those concerned virtually are convinced that the person does not exist, that someone was writing in under a pseudonym. What surprises me is that the editor of the 'Australian' apparently knows so little about the Parliament that he could accept a letter from someone who turns out to be a non-existent person who says he knows a man who says from lobbying around Parliament that $10,000 is a pretty low bribe to offer. 
Every member of this Parliament is sending a stream of representations to Ministers on behalf of constituents who approach him. I have done it for many years. At least no person who has lived in Australia for a long time has offered to pay me anything. 1 have had the experience of a foreigner from a country with a rather different setup in the form of government - usually he is from a country with a dictatorship - who has said vaguely: Were there any expenses in the representations that you had to make?' 
I have said there is no expense, that I bear the cost of the stamps. But neither can I offer to any of these people a guaranteed result. All I can do is make representations to the Minister, which I am usually happy to do, and everybody is doing that. In point of fact. the truth about this Parliament is that it fs a colossal free ombudsman service very often for large numbers of people in the electorates. I am only surprised that the editor of the 'Australian' did not know that, and I am surprised that he accepted the letter. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. He will be aware that the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts said in answer to a question on Aboriginal land rights addressed to him on 9th November by the honourable member for Prospect that the matter was one for an announcement by the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister therefore say whether the council of Ministers he established in May to inquire into land rights reached a decision on this matter some weeks ago? Has any recommendation of the council been considered by Cabinet, and if so, with what result? 
The Opposition welcomes the statement, lt would have been helpful if the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had given us some indication of what this would specifically mean to Papua New Guinea in terms of value of trade. The treatment of Papua New Guinea in this matter is perhaps not exceptional. The European Economic Community offers no particular barriers to countries of tropical agriculture and 1 presume that this decision means that New Guinea coffee, cocoa, tea, rubber and one or two other tropical products, including tropical fruits, can enter the EEC market. In this respect the position of Papua New Guinea is parallel with a good many tropical African countries and with the West Indies but that rights of entry have been extended to Papua New Guinea is very welcome, lt could be that in the future an expansion of trade will develop between Papua New Guinea and the EEC. This is one step which will help to make an independent Papua New Guinea viable in the future. As such we are glad to receive the news. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Opposition finds it odd that this resolution did not come to this House from the Cabinet. Surely at the conclusion of a war such a motion should have been initiated and moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the House to which the Government is responsible. It is an odd, backhanded way of bringing in a resolution of this character for it to come from the Senate for consideration by this House after consideration by the Senate. In the article by Peter Samuel in the Sydney 'Bulletin' which touched off the crisis in the Government, and which was held by Peter Samuel to have been inspired by the former Minister for Defence, now the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  it was said that Cabinet was indifferent to the fate of the Army in Vietnam. That can be the only explanation of the fact that the Government has left to the Senate the initiative in moving this motion of appreciation to the troops and of sympathy to their relatives. 
The present Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  in the course of his statement spoke about the overthrow of the government of South Vietnam. Are we supposed to stand here and forget everything that has happened in 10 years, and not recognise or remember that  Sir Garfield  Barwick, as Minister for External Affairs, In this House deplored the overthrow of the government of South Vietnam, the government of Diem? And who overthrew it? Everybody in this House knows that that government could not have been overthrown if the coup had not been supported, by  President  Kennedy with Ambassador Lodge as his instrument. After chat time the situation in Vietnam deteriorated from one in which the United States of America needed only 300 advisers to one in which it needed 600,000 troops. 
Nobody will quarrel with the sentiments of this resolution; surely gallantry is not the issue. We have not said the last thing about the charge at Balaclava when we say that the soldiers were gallant. We have to ask why they charged and who blundered. They are the historic questions. We have not said the last thing about Anzac when we say that the soldiers were gallant. The question is: Was it wise that they were there? If it was, was the operation carried out properly? We have not said the last thing about the Somme when we say that in contrast with the French Army, the British Army did nol mutiny when for 30 days, clay after day. it was thrown at German positions in the Somme and 60,000 men went down  every  day and nobody broke discipline. But Churchill never forgot it. It was the horror of his life and the blind strategy of frontal assault he decided to avoid more than anything else in the Second World War. Merely to commend the gallantry of the soldiers on the Somme, who probably attained a height of bravery never attained in human history before or after, is not to have said the last thing about the strategy and tactics of Field Marshal Haig at the Somme. Nor is it the last thing to say about Vietnam that the soldiers were gallant. 
I had reason to have a debate, in the University of Western Australia with my Liberal opponent at the last election. He twitted me about certain statements I had made in support of the operations in Vietnam. These statements are to be seen in Hansard and I do not deny or repudiate them. When  Sir Robert  Menzies said in this House that the American fleet had been attacked in the Gulf of Tonkin, I believed him. It was not true. The false report resulted from the incompetence of American sonar operators who could not tell the difference between the sound of a torpedo coming at their ship and the sound echoed off the rudders of their own destroyer Turner Joy' as it turned in its manoeuvres. T believed the statements - and some of the stuff came from the Department of External Affairs - which indicated that China was really involved in Vietnam, until, staggeringly, at a later stage in history we had the late Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, saying in this House, after the Government had been twitted and twitted about the level of government trade with China, that the Chinese were not involved in the war in South Vietnam. We have been induced at various times to found attitudes of mind based upon - I will not say 'untruths' because I believe the Government's own sources of information were false - misinformation emanating from some quarters which apparently the Government believed; at least, T hope the Government believed them. 
For a long time this Government has been trigger happy, lt was trigger happy over Suez, lt deplored the fact that a settlement was achieved there. We did not see from the former Prime Minister too much joy in his initial statement which reduced the Australian commitment in Vietnam. 
Ruthlessly and ceaselessly, everything that has happened in Vietnam has been used to incite fear in Australia and to extract Democratic Labor Party preferences. There was a time when the British fought a war that is called the 'War of Jenkin's Ear'. If the Vietnam war is properly named, from Australia's point of view it will be called the 'War of DLP Preferences'. It has been used quite unscrupulously and quite consistently in Australian internal politics. 
I believe that the Vietcong are a massacring, ruthless group of people. I happen to believe that many torces in the Government of Indonesia are precisely the same. That is why 300,000 Chinese were murdered in cold blood and that is why, in West Irian today, without any tremor from us, large numbers of people are being consistently chopped down. They are no more ruthless, however, than the Government of Pakistan which is carrying out genocide on a scale which leaves the Vietcong or the Vietcong's opponents for dead. We must not forget, if we remember history, the swift hush-up when  Mr White,  the Secretary of the Department of the Army, made a speech at the United Services Club in which he described the southern generals who succeeded Diem shooting prisoners of war in a large compound. He said that the prisoners were made to run and that they were shot for sport to see who could get the biggest bag of prisoners. The moral distinction between the 2 sides as far as massacre is concerned is not very clear. 
The other thing that we must face is that for a very considerable part of the time - and the Americans have much more candour about this than our Government has ever had - we have not known who were our enemies and who were our friends in South Vietnam. It has never been easy to identify Vietcong supporters and non-Vietcong supporters. The terrible disadvantage under which European troops fought in Vietnam was that they themselves were easily identifiable and their opponents were not easily identifiable. But let us be done with the story that it is massacre and ruthlessness that attract the Government's disapproval or the Government's warlike action. If they did, we would now be at war with Pakistan, we would have been at war with Indonesia, and we would be concerned about what is happening in West Irian. We are concerned about none of these things. 
I do not believe that over the Gulf of Tonkin, which was the casus belli for bombing North Vietnam, or over such questions as the presence of Chinese, the Government wilfully misinformed the country. It did not wilfully misinform the country, but it very clearly did misinform the country. I give it credit by saying that I believe it misinformed the country by inadvertence. But it is very clear that we should be quite certain in future of our sources of information when confidently stories are put about that certain events have taken place which involve the necessity for retaliation. In American parliamentary practice, where the structure of the Parliament does not mean that every blunder that the Executive has made must be concealed and everybody must gang up to endorse the actions of the government or it falls, the inquiries by the Senate into the Gulf of Tonkin resolution have been most clear and have established the events that really did fake place. 
We hope that the Government's words about its appreciation of the ex-servicemen of Vietnam will be matched by its repatriation generosity. This is the thing for which the Returned Services League asks. If it is in the form of war service homes, we hope that the Government will make new adjustments about the price of land and about the cost of building a house. We hope that, in the inflationary situation, it will take a look at the inadequacy of the pensions for meeting the kinds of costs that men rehabilitating themselves into the Australian community today will be called on to meet. 
The addendum moved by the Opposition compliments the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in effect on his promise that Australian troops will not be involved in future in Indo-China. Let us be done, whatever else we think about the situation in Indo-China, with the view that the Government of North Vietnam has been disposed of. I personally doubt whether the Vietcong has been disposed of. It will be time enough to claim victories when we see whether the Government of South Vietnam by its own efforts is viable. But one thing is perfectly certain: The Government of North Vietnam is still there. I have no reason to believe that the intermittent bombings which took place inflicted upon the economy or the people of North Vietnam the same damage, the same casualties and the same traumas as 6 or 7 years of continuous war in South Vietnam inflicted on the people of South Vietnam. 
Do not let us pretend anything else than that the United States Government gave to North Vietnam a guarantee against invasion. While there were aerial attacks on a tremendous scale, no reason exists to believe that this left the economy of North Vietnam - the basis of its war machine - fundamentally disturbed. So it is premature to claim that what has happened in South Vietnam means that no future government of North Vietnam can with impunity start a policy of intervention in South Vietnam again. I do not think a North Vietnamese government will do so immediately. 1 think that there are enough elements in South Vietnamese politics, especially if South Vietnamese politics becomes an election between 2 people instead of the election of one person on the classic communist model which we are ready to deride when it is practised by communists but apparently not when it is practised by Thieu, lo ensure that from 2 candidates in some future election there will emerge in the South Vietnamese Parliament, if it still exists - and parliaments usually do not last long in Asia - some other element in the Government which will want to go into collusion or collaboration with the North, perhaps to seek unity with the North, and the position of South Vietnam may well be weakened. 
However, that is a matter for the South Vietnamese to decide, lt would have been wise if the continued existence of the Diem Government had been left as a matter for the people of South Vietnam to decide. The price of an ill-informed interference in the affairs of South Vietnam has been very high. I do not believe for one minute that, if Diem had not been overthrown, there would ever have been any need for any significant number of American troops or any significant number of Australian troops to be involved, or for the general Austraiian involvement in Vietnam, except perhaps in the way of economic assistance. 
I think that it is true to say that, in Asia, Britain has forgotten more than the United States ever learnt. I happen to believe that the opposite is true in Europe where the United States has deep experi ence and, from the time when Woodrow Wilson recreated Poland and Czechoslovakia, has shown a very constructive purpose there. But by intervening on the broad mainland of Asia and not merely on the peninsula where there could be an end to the military line, by violating the simple principle of not interfering with a government that was in existence and viable - imagine the British in the days of the Raj overthrowing any maharaja who was a loyal ally - and by doing that with Diem, the United States helped to create the crisis for which they have paid a very high price in blood in their efforts to solve. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for assumption by the Commonwealth of responsibility for financing university education'. 
Last night when we moved for the withdrawal and redrafting of certain legislation in connection with housing the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  denied the right of the Opposition to do anything about legislation other than to applaud it and seemed to imply that that was the sole function of the Opposition. He said that we would be holding up the legislation if our request that the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted was carried. In case the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm. Fraser)  sings again the same note let me say at the outset that we are putting this amendment forward quite genuinely and I hope we do not have a repetition of no defence of the Government's position against our proposal whilst denying our. right - in a matter which concerns a State agreement - to move an amendment of this kind. So I hope, if I may paraphrase a distinguished former leader of the Liberal Party, that they will not be like Browning's bird and sing every song twice over 'lest you should think he never could recapture the first fine careless rapture'. We hope that the discussion on our motion for withdrawal will be more intelligent than was the discussion last night. 
The legislation which is before us advances Commonwealth expenditure to meet certain contingencies in the State universities because of the changes in academic salaries. It relates mainly to the changes of some of the technical staffs of the universities, but we need to look at the Government's formula in university education. Let us suppose that a professor's salary is increased by $2,850 a year. The State meets $1,850 of this and the Commonwealth meets $1,000 of it. But this conceals a particular fact: The Commonwealth gets back most, or sometimes all, of its contribution in income tax from the professor whereas the State pays the extra $1,850 and does not get it back. In other words, we have a situation in which the Commonwealth is always riding inflation like a cork on top of the water whereas the States are like a heavily laden ship that goes charging into the waves of inflation and suffers the strains that a ship does of hogging and sagging. 
We believe that the time has come, if university education is to advance, for the Commonwealth to assume the financial responsibility for all tertiary education. It is the view of the Australian Labor Party that the Commonwealth should be exclusively responsible for financing universities, colleges of advanced education, teachers colleges and tertiary technical education. However, that is not germane to this Bill and our view on this Bill is that the exclusive responsibility for financing universities should be upon the Commonwealth. If the whole structure of tertiary finance were lifted from being a burden on the States, at the present time I believe it would relieve them of an expenditure of some $230m. We would wish that this additional assistance to the States would lead to the States spending in other areas of education the money that they so saved. This would be the most simple way of making additional Commonwealth assistance to education because I do not believe that any State would regret the departure from its expenditure obligations of the whole structure of tertiary education. The Commonwealth coming in at this level would involve the States in a minimum of administrative adjustment. They would be glad to be relieved of the burden of university education and I know that they would be glad to be relieved of the extremely unfair formula of $1 of Commonwealth expenditure for Si .85 of State expenditure. 
The usual plea of the Government on matters like this is: Where is the money to come from? The Minister has paid me the compliment of following some of my utterances and adding them up. He gets a remarkable figure. If we suggest that in the first year of a Labor government we would make an emergency grant of $180m full stop to the States and in the next year we would assume the obligation for tertiary education without repeating the $l80m emergency grant, we are confronted with a process whereby the Minister adds the $180m in one year onto $230m the next and says: 'Your promises will cost $410m', whereas the situation is that $180m would be spent in one year and $230m in the next. 
You had our figures up to $525m. On some aspects of the Labor Party's education policy we do not know what the costs would be because we do not know what an education commission or a schools commission would recommend and we do now know which recommendations we would be accepting. That is a different matter altogether but it is quite amazing how the Government, which can impose taxes which take from the Australian community a surplus of $630m and immobilise it, cannot face the possibility that some of that $630m might be used to transform the capital equipment of education in some of the states. The Government took this as an anti-inflationary measure and now finds that it is producing a stagnation in the economy which it did not anticipate. But imagine how the welkin would have rung if we had promised to spend $630m on education, equal to the $630m surplus which the Goverment is taking and immobilising at the present time. Without turning a hair we now have the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  making exchanges with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and contemplating that some destroyers might cost $l,000m, but he was not making this as a firm statement. After all, the Royal Australian Air Force was allowed to get away with $300m for an aeroplane that will not fly, so why should not the Navy have $ 1,000m worth of destroyers, surface shins that are sitting ducks 

 Sot air attack, despite the fact that everybody knows that the capital ship of the Navy today is the submarine. But I leave that aside. 
The Government can very easily contemplate such expenditures or surpluses of $630m. But if we suggest in a country of gross inequalities in education, where a large part of our skilled young people are not getting to either higher levels of technical education or scientific or academic education, that there is a need for expenditure which may mobilise the skills of our people, Government supporters follows us with an adding machine and say that this will cost so-and-so. They assume that their own decisions to create great surpluses like $630m are infallible but that anybody who suggests that this sort of money may be spent in another direction must be insane. It reminds me of the time when  Mr Stanley  Melbourne Bruce, who was later Lord Bruce, made a speech in which he said that he was the only man who could be the Prime Minister of Australia. Although the Sydney 'Bulletin' supported him, this was too much for that publication. The 'Bulletin' published a cartoon of him as an angel in stoles of white floating in a stained glass window with these words in Gothic script coming from his mouth. 'Only I am possible'. When the Government puts its policies before the Australian people it always says, "This is the only possible expenditure'. 
We have had lectures on education over the years from the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, showing that there was no Commonwealth constitutional obligation for education. He made that assertion year after year, for a whole decade, while the Commonwealth remained non-interventionist. Then suddenly the Commonwealth Government found, with no change in the Constitution, that it could begin to assume quite large obligations in education. We believe that the Commonwealth must take an interest in tertiary education with some different form of approach than this Si for $1.85 and that the field of tertiary education is the field in which the new Commonwealth intervention should take place. This will transform the other levels of education because of the removal from the States of the burden of tertiary education. The one thing that we can be quite certain of is that this proposal will be derided tonight. If the Government lasts for another 4 or 5 years the successor to the Minister for Education and Science or the same Minister, if he is still there, will be bringing in a measure along these lines. So we will be no longer impressed, having seen the Government adopt, 5 years later, all the policies that it said were impossible. 
We appeal to the Government to begin to adopt without this unnecessary delay a policy that will lead to the transformation of education. I do not expect that the Government will accept our amendment that this Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for the Commonwealth to assume exclusively the responsibility for financing university education. It is not the policy of the Government. The policy of the Government is expressed in this legislation and within that framework we have no objection to this legislation at all. The States Grants (Universities) Bill consists of some minor adjustments that have been made necessary because of some wage decisions and some minor alterations which have been made necessary to transfer funds from one project to another because universities have had some change within the triennium in their internal strategies for the use of the funds. 
The Bill is quite unexceptional. We have no objection to the Bill as such but we are moving this amendment because we believe that the way forward in tertiary education is for the Commonwealth government to be fully responsible for it and not to have it as part of the annual conflict between the Commonwealth and the States or resting on a formula of $1' Commonwealth for $1.85 State which works out appallingly unfairly on the States while to the Commonwealth it represents increases in salaries upon which revenue is paid back to the Commonwealth in the form of income tax. The States are not equivalent beneficiaries of that tax. This Government rides inflation like a cork and every kind of inflation in Australia leads to a vast increase in tax revenue. Do not let us evade that point. The Government which rides inflation like a cork might be the one that is best fitted to carry the full responsibility for expenditure on the higher levels of education, and for that reason we have moved this amendment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes) 

Is the amendment seconded? 
In general the Opposition supports these 3 Bills. The first one relates mainly to academic salaries, to appropriate additional grants in order that the Commonwealth might meet its share of the cost of the new levels of academic salaries in colleges of advanced education under the accepted matching formula. We have said what we think about this accepted matching formula on a number of occasions tonight, and I do not want to go into that question again. The third of these Bills, the Australian Universities Commission Bill, provides for an additional full time member of the Australian Universities Commission and also provides for some co-ordination of action between the new Australian Commission on Advanced Education and the Universities Commission. Very clearly, of these 3 measures the most important is the one that sets up the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. I want to make some comment on that. 
The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the previous debate accused the Opposition of having ideas that would lead to centralisation. I am perfectly certain that if last year we had suggested the establishment of an Australian Commission on Advanced Education we would have been told that we were centralising. Here again the Commonwealth is setting up a powerful advisory body, to advise on the financial needs of all these colleges of advanced education. Quite clearly, however much the Minister may disavow it, there is a rise in Commonwealth influence on this whole subject. I would like to take a quotation from an essay titled 'Colleges and the Community' by S. Murray-Smith in which he had this to say about our colleges of advanced education: 
Australia', we have recently been told, 'supports universities because people in universities say it should, and because  Sir Robert  Menzies in the late fifties set up a commission to prove the point by reaching a foregone conclusion'. One could take this further and say that Australia supports colleges of advanced education because some means had to be found of satisfying the insensate demands of the electors for 'qualifications' for their children, and universities had proved to be too expensive, too radical and too unresponsive. The Martin Committee showed us the way forward: To retread the old Australian technical education system, which had been running on the bare canvas for the past 50 years. 
I do not think that is a fair comment, but it is a view that is held, in certain circles, of colleges of advanced education. I hope that the setting up of this commission will make quite sure that what we are doing in advanced technical education is not a retread of the tyres that have been worn down to the canvas in the last 50 years. We need to face the fact that there was a bad turn in tertiary technical education. In the 19th century what was begun was very broad indeed. In fact, there were 2 leaders in technical education in the late 19th century. There was Selfe in Sydney and Campbell in Melbourne who were bold enough to advertise that they would teach anything to 6 or 12 people who would get together and say what they wanted to breadth in some of these tertiary or learn. There was a quite remarkable advanced technical education institutions. In fact, some of the great landscape artists of Australia learned their art in such places from teachers who were attracted there. 
Then the bureaucrats got to work and one most remarkable thing happened in Sydney. Whereas before 1914 there were 26,000 students in Sydney technical schools, when logic began to be applied as to who should be admitted - there were demands of qualifications for entry and the old breadth of artists and all sorts of people coming in disappeared - almost within 1 year the number of students in Sydney technical schools was cut to 13,000. For years and years they did not recover from that position. The Canberra College of Advanced Education seems to me to restore some of the breadth that Selfe and Campbell had in their bold invitation that they would organise technical education for any number of people between 6 and 12 who indicated what they wanted to be taught. As I say, the result was a fruitful period in technical and advanced education. 
The Opposition welcomes the formation of a commission for the colleges of advanced education. Just as the Commonwealth has proved that the establishment of a universities commission has advanced universities, just as it will prove that colleges of advanced education will be developed by this commission, so we say that it is imperative for the advance of Australian education there should be a schools commission and a pre-schools commission to advise the Commonwealth on the needs of those forms of education. There will be no other way  for it. The Minister complains  about a philosophy of centralisation. He had better go back to the High Court decision in the uniform taxation case. There is the root of centralisation. The States have been left with the expenditure departments, the Commonwealth has the revenue departments, and all sorts of social services have been limping along with that problem ever since. 
Having said those things, I would like to say that we support the 3 measures under consideration. One of them is quite major - the setting up of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education - and the others, which the Minister has introduced for cognate debate, are incidental. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for the establishment of a Schools Commission to advise the Commonwealth Government on. all forms of assistance necessary to' bring all primary and secondary schools to acceptable standards'. 
I am not going to detain the House at any great length on this measure or on  the amendment that I have just moved. I have colleagues who want to speak in greater detail about the legislation before us. But I do want to use this amendment as a vehicle to protest against the Government's policy of skim and dabble in education. It skims over the surface of the deep needs of  education  below the tertiary level and it dabbles here and there. Usually some new snipper of policy is adopted just before an election. So we got the science blocks scheme just before an election. 
It is an historic fact. So also did we get assistance for secondary school libraries, lt is quite important that over the next triennium $30m is to be provided for secondary school libraries. But the needs in primary and secondary education are immense. Anybody who looks at television programmes - just to discuss as an aside the private sector of education - will have heard the Catholic Archbishop of Hobart, Guilford Young, say that 20 of his schools are bankrupt and they will have to be closed, producing a crisis in primary and secondary education in the State of Tasmania. We have had a statement from the Victorian State school teachers organisation saying that as a minimum $130m is needed in capital construction for the education of children in the City of Melbourne alone. There is a very deep-seated crisis in education. We are going to have to change many of our concepts. It is extremely doubtful that all the teachers who will be employed in the future - if class sizes are to be reduced as they should be - will be fully qualified teachers professionally. We will have to move to the idea which appears to be developing in the more, advanced States educationally in the United States of teaching teams, where, there are teachers .with specialist skills who can assist teachers without themselves being fully qualified to teach across the whole range. 
The Opposition is dissatisfied with the way the Commonwealth moves into the ordinary fields of education. There is a tremendous wastage of skilled population at the secondary school level because of the large numbers of children who have to leave school, and there is a poultice on that - the secondary school scholarshipswhich does not really meet the needs of the children. The Catholic schools' in particular are in very great financial need, so there is a flat rate grant where the most affluent get the same per capita grant as the most indigent of the schools. The whole system has grown like Topsy. The Commonwealth has found that if it is to do anything intelligent for the universities, if it is to do anything intelligent for the colleges of advanced education, it must have a special organ of sight to see the needs. So it has set up the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission for Colleges of Advanced Education. We say that it is also vitally important that the Commonwealth should set up a schools commission to perceive the needs that there are in the ordinary schools of the country. 
The Commonwealth and the States are separate and colliding sovereignties. Whether we like it or not, what the founding fathers produced and what judicial interpretation.' especially in the uniform tax case, has subsequently developed, is that the States control the expenditure departments and the Commonwealth controls the revenue department. There is no sector of education which will advance in the absence of Commonwealth financial grants. You may just as well comment upon the English structure of education where education is under the administration of local government authorities but wholly dependent upon the grants of the national Government. 1 am not saying that the Commonwealth should take over the administration of education. It has not taken over the administration of the universities. It has not taken over the administration of colleges of advanced education. In setting up a schools commission to advise the Commonwealth what it might do to assist both the Government and the non-Government sector of education it would not take over the administration of either of those sectors. 
But are you not duplicating State departments now? You are duplicating State departments in this matter: 
No, we are not talking about universities. We are talking about this Bill before us now which relates to secondary school libraries. Those which are not church schools are under the administration of the  States.  Libraries and science blocks in State secondary schools are under the administration of the States but this Government has seen fit to assist them. Instead, of coming in with a strategy of skim and dabble we want the Government to set up. a schools commission which will really investigate the needs, right across the board, and assist. I believe that there is another tertiary field in which this Government should assist to a. greater degree than it has done. It has already started to do so with teachers colleges and with the training of teachers. This is within the administration of the States but the Commonwealth has entered this field to assist. There is no difference in principle  in what we are proposing, which is a schools commission perpetually to examine the needs and to make recommendations to the Commonwealth Government. 
One thing that we know for sure,  Mr Minister,  is that you can look back and see the Hansard record sparkling with statements that emanated from the days when the Liberal Party of Australia had its first fine careless rapture. In that first fine careless rapture the Prime Minister of the day said persistently that the Commonwealth had no responsibility for education, until he was inched into Universities Commission, until he was inched into science blocks, until he was inched into school libraries, until he was inched into all sorts of things and what the Government denied it subsequently affirmed. I would prefer the days since the first fine careless rapture as far as education is concerned because the days of first fine careless rapture were rather arid in the field of education. I am bound to say that the successors of those first Ministers have done more for education, very much more for education, than their predecessors of earlier times. Our only complaint is that persistently there is this disclaimer - the same disclaimer as the Minister has made tonight - that it is a Commonwealth responsibility. Then, another generation of schoolchildren goes through crippled education and, finally, the Commonwealth gets around to a new adjustment 7 or 8 years after- it denied that it needed to do it. I think politically the instinct is superb. I do not begrudge the Government its electoral successes at all. 
1 have never doubted the interest and good will of the Minister since I served with him on a select committee that went among the Aborigines. This amendment which has been moved is a necessary reminder that the Commonwealth was accorded full power on this subject, and the Opposition is anxious that the Commonwealth Government should assume full power, lt has not launched this as an attack on the Government, but I am sure that the amendment will be so interpreted by many honourable members who arc yet to speak, lt is a reminder thai there was :i referendum and that all of us in this House from all political parties were united on this issue. The referendum did accord new powers and the amendment is a plea for the new powers to be used. 
The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  asked the Minister whether it was in the report of the Select Committee that there should be an inner ministry, that is, the Administrator's Executive Council. The Minister has picked up the point of the Australian Labor Party's policy of independence for Papua New Guinea. The maintenance of the link betwen Australia and New Guinea is not a matter for New Guinea to decide alone. There are 2 nations involved in this. There is therefore no analogy between a question of maintaining the link and the question of how the ministry is selected. We are consistent and not inconsistent as the Minister suggests, because if you believe in the early independence of Papua New Guinea you also believe in the early selection of members of the Administrator's Executive Council as a step on the way. In other words, believing in early independence for Papua New Guinea, we do not want the Minister for External Territories to be choosing the inner ministry. 
I agree that he has a case whenever he can say that this is what the House of Assembly wants, but he himself has specifically said on this matter that the House of Assembly and its Select Committee were silent, and he fills the silence with himself. He chooses the ministry in conjunction with the Administrator. Now, that is all right, but neither of us can claim on the specific matter which we are now discussing, the amendment, the authority of the House of Assembly. We are consistent in believing in early independence, and also in believing in early responsibility, that the 17 Ministers should choose their inner cabinet rather than the Administrator and the Minister. There is no point in labouring this issue. I would be grateful if the Minister would reply to the question asked by the honourable member for Wills. Was it a request of the House of Assembly that instead of just a Cabinet of 17 Ministers there should also be an inner Cabinet of the Administrator's Executive Council? 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 10 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly 
Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontror agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament take note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed on their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Opposition will propose an amendment to clause 10 of this Bill. In general the Opposition supports the legislation. We do not believe that what is evolving in Papua New Guinea is an ideal constitution but most of the proposals which the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  has put before us are proposals which the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly accepted from the Select Committee on Constitutional Development. It therefore is not our intention to quarrel with anything which the House of Assembly has endorsed from the recommendations of the Select Committee. However, in a certain passage in the Minister's second reading speech he referred to clause 10 and then said: 
The Select Committee report was silent on the method of choosing the Ministers to sit on the Administrator's Executive Council, with the exception of the Deputy Chairman. The Bill provides that this will be a matter for the Minister for External Territories to determine on the advice of the Administrator, who will consult the Deputy Chairman. 
There will be 17 Ministers. Ten of those Ministers will go on to the Administrator's Executive Council. The Government, following the recommendation of the Select Committee and the House of Assembly, has provided that the Ministers will select the Deputy Chairman. But because no recommendation was made as to how the other- 9 members of the Administrator's Executive Council were to be selected, the legislation proposed by the Government reverts to a consultation between the Minister for External Territories and the Administrator, and between the Administrator and the Deputy Chairman. This appears to us to be a reversion to a very much earlier situation. We believe that at this stage of history the Minister for External Territories in Canberra should not be nominatingmembers of the Administrator's Executive' Council. If the Ministry can be trusted to elect its first member, the Deputy Chairman of the Administrator's Executive Council, it can be trusted to elect the other nine. 
The provision that those appointments be confirmed by the House of Assembly takes away all idea of selection by the Administrator and the Minister in this place. We believe that it is an important step in responsible government for all the Executive Council to be selected by the Ministry and confirmed by the House of Assembly. Accordingly, in the Committee stage of this Bill I will move the following amendment: 
Clause 10, page 4, line 19 to 21, omit paragraph (c), insert the following paragraph: 
nine other Ministers of the House of Assembly appointed by the Ministers of the House of Assembly, but such appointments shall not become effective unless and until the House of Assembly has, by resolution, approved the appointments; and'. 
That wording follows the wording of the method by which the Ministers choose the Deputy Chairman, whose choice is confirmed by the House of Assembly. It is important at this stage to make one or two other comments on the whole constitutional situation. I would like to make a personal suggestion. This is not a suggest tion of the Australian Labor Party, although I do not doubt for one minute that the Labor Party would endorse it. It would be a good gesture if we were to give to the people of Papua New Guinea an adequate Parliament House as a gift from the people of Australia, because the present Parliament House is most inadequate. 
My distinguished friend suggests that we should give them this one. It is an American habit to take buildings brick by brick from one place to another. But I do not think that this would meet my specifications of an adequate Parliament House. Besides, this one has in it a second chamber, and we do not want to suggest the establishment of a second chamber in Papua New Guinea. However, that is another matter. I think it would also be a good thing if we were to give them as a gift a national library and archives. Government in Papua New Guinea is crippled by the absence of an adequate national library and adequate national archives. 
I think that if they had the gift of the Leader of the Opposition as a political leader up there they might do very much worse in hastening the sort of constitutional changes that are necessary. While the Leader of the Opposition has been very much criticised for some of the things that he said in Papua New Guinea, I would like to suggest that some of his criticisms of some of the subordinate courts in Papua New Guinea were thoroughly confirmed later by the Supreme Court. But we will not go into that question. 
What I feel is the most necessary thing in Papua New Guinea is some effort at indoctrination - it is an ugly word - in national unity, because national unity in Papua New Guinea is just not growing like Topsy. There have been 2 occasions on which I have seen a definite indoctrination in national unity. It is one of the paradoxes of the history of Papua New Guinea that when  Mr Ward  was the Minister for External Territories he used to be attacked by the 'Pacific Islands Monthly' for trying to establish in Papua New Guinea what Robinson of the 'Pacific Islands Monthly* called  Mr Ward's  socialist empire. The curious thing about Papua New Guinea and  Mr Ward's  government of Papua New Guinea was that  Mr Ward  governed entirely on military plans. There was a reason for this. During the war when ANGAU - the Australian New Guinea Administrative Unit of the Australian Army - was established in Papua New Guinea it set up a research body in Sydney which became ASOPA, the Australian School of Pacific Administration, to look at the problems of Papua New Guinea as a nation. 
Before the war Australia spent very little on its administration of both Papua and New Guinea. I know that there are all sorts of reasons for that. But historically, as a fact, only about 40,000 a year was spent on Papua New Guinea. The place, especially New Guinea, was very often thought of in terms of a reserve in plantation labour for a minority of the native people, and the majority of the native people continued their lives in contact with missions and from time to time in contact with patrol officers, but very largely undisturbed. The impact of the Japanese invasion changed all that, and the military had to look at the people of Papua New Guinea as a nation whose support was to be won for Australia. All sorts of plans were evolved. In the post-war period,  Mr Chifley  indicated to  Mr Ward  that  Colonel Murray,  who had been the  Chairman  of the research section of ASOPA, should be made the Governor of Papua New Guinea and the plans that had been evolved should be put into operation in Papua New Guinea. Swiftly Australia's expenditure in Papua New Guinea rose to 3m, which was about 75 times as much as to was pre-war. The Hasluck era consisted of an expansion of that foundation. 
There is no particular virtue in the Military putting forward a plan - some people might be expected to be prejudiced against a military plan - for the development of a country. But the point about it was that it was the first time that any significant authorities in Australia had looked at the people of Papua New Guinea as a nation. I am disturbed at the fact that today the most conscious effort to develop national unity in Papua New Guinea is still coming from the military. There is a concentration, and rightly so, on indoctrinating the Pacific Islands Regiment with the sentiments of national unity. Some have accused it of becoming a separate tribe, but this ignores the effort to indoctrinate it with a sense of national service. There is an intelligent effort to imbue it with a sentiment of allegiance to the Government of Papua New Guinea, the the House of Assembly and to the Administrator's Executive Council and their successors in the future. 
I have noted quite a deal of criticism of the Army from personalities in the Administration whenever 1 have been in Papua New Guinea, but 1 would say that the Administration in Papua New Guinea should make an equal effort to indoctrinate the people of Papua New Guinea in the sentiments of national unity because Papua New Guinea in its whole historical background is not a nation. The people of Bougainville had nothing to do with the people of the Highlands, nor did the people of New Ireland, New Britain or Mans, and if that be true of the people of the outlying islands it is equally true of the people on the mainland, lt is disturbing to think that the accidental boundary between Papua and New Guinea, which was drawn due to the fact that once the northern part was a German colony and the southern a British COlOny. is now beginning to bc treated as something real. We have members of the House of Assembly saying that Papua will or will not tolerate a particular policy, that Papua will secede, that Papua will form a seventh State, that the Papuans are Australian citizens and that the New Guineans are not. This border, which we tend to regard as imaginary, seems to be exercising a real force in the minds of too many of the people there. Constitutions perfect on paper will work only if there is a consensus of agreement surrounding them in the community. The constitution of the United Kingdom works because there is a disciplined and restrained community. The constitution that we are enacting tonight will work if there is a real sentiment of mutual respect for one another in the langauge groups in the community. I have said before that I feel that the greatest threat to that national unity - the one spark which may cause an explosion - is the fear that exists in some areas that the central government in Port Moresby will sweep away their land rights. 
There is a very good reason for having an Administrator's Executive Council elected by the Ministers who are themselves selected, by a Parliamentary process of selection, by a committee of the House of Assembly which is elected by the House of Assembly, and that that election should be subject to the confirmation of the House of Assembly. I suppose one can say that the  Deputy Chairman  of the Administrator's Executive Council is the nearest approach to a Prime Minister that Papua New Guinea has yet had. But prime ministerial and. presidential characters in emerging countries have tended to become dictators in the first phase. In the second phase there is a military coup d'etat. Ghana has gone through the third phase and has reverted to parliamentary democracy, but other parts of Africa are followed through the other phases. Nigeria is in the second phase of military dictatorship, Uganda is in the second phase of military dictatorship, and so on. While there is a charismatic leader in Kenya the situation there seems stable, but there is a sense of fear and insecurity about what will happen after Kenyatta dies. 
Anything we can do to create in the House of Assembly the character of a collegium, which includes the effective responsibility of the Ministers to the House and the effective power of the House over the Ministry while there is a rudimentary party system we should do. The powers in the Swiss Parliament; power to choose the Ministers and a close identity of the Ministers with the House, offer security against the emergence of dictators in Papua New Guinea. I do not feel that at the present time the House of Assembly in Papua New Guinea can have the luxury of the kind of acrimonius divisions we have in this House. I know that we cannot create unity in the voting in the Parliament, but there should not be an Opposition excluded from power and influence - a group apart. Perhaps this could be the fate of the Pangu Party and some expatriates want that. They should not be on the outer with the Ministers not obliged to have anything to do with them. It would be disastrous if it became the convention for Ministers to jump up and snub the Opposition at every possible opportunity. That brainless convention can be endured in Australia because the basic sentiments of the community are so united; this is a nation. But it cannot be endured where national unity is precarious - the attachment of Bougainville or the attachment of the Gazelle Peninsula to the whole of Papua New Guinea is so insecure. 
The gleeful process of scoring off Oscar Tammur which takes place in the House of Assembly from time to time may be regarded by us as the normal to and fro of party politics, but in my view it is seriously weakening the attachment of the people of the Gazelle Peninsula to remaining within Papua New Guinea. I am not commending everything that Oscar Tammur has said or done, nor do I endorse the actions of the Mataungans, but I say that this planned hostility constituted a threat to unity. It is the antithesis of a conscious effort to build national unity in Papua New Guinea. The military aim at unity within the military framework, and 1 would like to see the Administration strive for the same unity in the civil structure of Papua New Guinea - the House, local government, the civil service. 
The honourable member feels that they are doing it in tertiary education institutions. I had no doubt that that was the case in the Administrative College but I was not equally sure that that was the case with some of the staff of the University of Papua New Guinea. But perhaps I am wrong. In any event, it is unwise to do anything to play off any elements of Papua New Guinea against the others. It is unwise to try to mobilise the highlanders as a majority. The highlands have special needs. We should be prepared to make special grants to the highlands. Their grievances do not arise because anybody discriminated against them. Their problem is that the area was so lately developed. It was quite inevitable, for instance, that the first place that would get education, the English language and advantages for the people was the Milne Bay  aTea  because in the days before air traffic all sea traffic went round the eastern end of the island of New Guinea. Ships stopped  at  Samarai. It was there that the first European contact took place and  it  was there that there developed the early work of missions. It was inevitable that the Tolai people of the Gazelle Peninsula would get education earlier and faster than others. The German missionaries came there  in  the 1 880s. The German Government came there. The Gazelle easily accessible and outside ideas came to the Tolai early. 
The highlanders are regarded as conservative. They may be conservative relative to some of the people from the coastal plain, but actually nobody in Papua New Guinea is what I would call socially conservative. They are deeply attached to their land and they will not adopt European ideas of land tenure. They are resistant to change in that respect, but the speed with which they have abandoned head hunting and cannibalism and the speed with which they have accepted education and outside ideas is quite remarkable. There are many of them who never had the chance to display this - and these include the highlanders, you might say - until after 1945. When  1  was first elected to this Parliament, 26 years ago, very large parts of the map of the highlands of Papua New Guinea were simply blank. There had been no patrols into them. The areas were really quite unknown. Now those areas are returning members to the House of Assembly, lt is really quite unfair to speak of the inhabitants of those areas as conservatives. They are people who are deeply conscious of their need for more education, more health, the influx of more ideas from outside. They do feel that they are at a disadvantage, that they are backward, that they need the special opening up of their country and that they need special advantages. It may well be that, come independence, and before independence, the Government ought to make a special earmarked grants to bring the Highlands into the general flow of development. 
To put it all more concretely, the people of Bougainville have 80 per cent or more of the children of school age in schools. The people of the highlands have 15 per cent of the children of school age in schools, and they feel this very deeply. The fact that they feel this very deeply shows how unjust is the charge of conservatism against them. At the same time, because they have special resentments it is most unwise for the Administration or for planters or for anybody in the European community to seek to manipulate them. 
In the main, in the past Papua New Guinea has had a very good cross section of expatriates in the country. It has had a very high quality mission effort, lt has had a very high quality of administrative staff. It has had good teachers. It has had many dedicated people who have really given their lives to the country. Unfortunately with the development of mining and the get-rich-quick possibilities that mining offers, and the whole nature of the mining industry, there tends to be less responsibility towards the people than perhaps was taken in the past. I do not romanticise the planters of the past or the present, but a lot of those Were men or thorough responsibility towards their people, and some are today. Some of them were not. Some of the great companies of Australia, Burns Philp in particular, had a past in Papua New Guinea  and  right throughout the Pacific that was extremely harsh. But when  Sir Paul 
Hasluck as the Minister for External Territories started removing adverse discriminations some of these people died hard. Generally speaking the conduct of expatriates in the past was good. If today there is a tendency for the position to be deteriorating that is dangerous. 1 think that the reality of the powers of the Minister for Immigration in Papua New Guinea may answer this. One great advantage the Army has, and one that the Army exercised quite ruthlessly, was the power to ensure that any Australian officer or non-commissioned officer who was a morally harmful or arrogant element, an exacerbating element, an abrasive element - and there were some of them in Papua New Guinea; some of them helped to produce mutinies - was promptly put on the next plane south. It is not so easy for other elements in the community to put people on the next plane south. But there are people in Papua New Guinea who ought to be on the next plane south, and the native people will tell you so. I hope that the Minister for Immigration would have as a reality in his hands, without it being an arbitary or damaging power, the right to allow or disallow continued residence because this is important for the maintenance of good race relations. 
Basically the transition of New Guinea to stable independence is a question of race relations. There are people who are trying to engender bad race relations. There are people who perhaps provoke racial division. It is a difficult situation, let us face il, because the European community is affluent and large numbers of the native community are not. Do not let us disguise from ourselves that this provokes jealousies, lt is inevitable that if you bring in to Papua New Guinea, for instance, an excellent standard of housing for expatriate civil servants the mere presence of the building constitutes a new idea. The native people of Papua New Guinea made very beautiful houses out of indigenous materials. In native villages you will see churches built in the native style, made of native materials, grasses and cane, hospitals and other places that have a very great dignity. But there is a great tendency on the part of the people of Papua New Guinea to refer to these as' bushy' and 'Kanaka'. There is greater prestige in having something that looks like a ben house made out of corrugated iron because the corrugated iron has the prestige of being imported material. Where you see a school really well built in the native style it looks much better than a school built in the Australian style, in my view. That may be a romantic view but I regret the tendency to regard the imported thing as superior. 
Superior expatriate housing undoubtedly provokes jealousy and resentment, lt is very important that the Administration should rapidly improve the housing of civil servants, the police and others who are employed. This improvement has been effected by the Army. There has been a great deal of criticism of the Army by the civil administration in Papua New Guinea because its standard of housing is high. But here again the Army is realistic. It has recognised that the presence of European style housing has created new ambitions and the Army has tried to satisfy them for its men. The same thing, I believe, needs to be done by the Administration. 
We are proposing this amendment, not because it is captious opposition to what the Government is doing, but we take and apply the principle the Government itself has adopted from the Select Committee in the manner in which the Deputy Chairman is chosen, and we propose that the 9 Ministers who are on the Administrator's Executive Council be chosen in just the same way. The amendment will help democracy in Papua New Guinea to be more able. Though the Select Committee was silent on this procedure I do not believe lor one moment that the House of Assembly would be opposed to it. They would welcome Ministers choosing the 9 who will sit on the Administrator's Council in the same Way as they choose the Deputy Chairman. We advance this amendment, not to express opposition but to express an idea Which we believe would make the legislation better. 
A move: 
Omit paragraph (c), insert the following paragraph: 
nine other Ministers of the House of Assembly appointed by the Ministers of the House of Assembly, but such appointments shall not become effective unless and until the House of Assembly has, by resolution, approved the appointments; and' 
Let us be perfectly clear. What the Government is proposing is neither the Opposition's philosophy not the Government's philosophy. The Government has arranged a system whereby the 17 Ministers of the House of Assembly will chose what obviously will be the most important Minister, the Deputy Chairman of the Administrator's Executive Council - in effect, an incipient Prime Minister. If the Government were following its philosophy the Deputy Chairman would choose his inner Cabinet. The Minister would say, quite rightly, that under the Government's system the Prime Minister chooses his Cabinet. But the Government does not provide that in the House of Assembly the key Minister, the Deputy Chairman, will choose the Executive Council. It provides that the Minister for External Territories, in consultation with the Administrator who will consult with the Deputy Chairman, will chose the members of the Executive Council. That is not providing for the Government's philosophy for selecting the Cabinet. 
We are not asking for the Opposition's philosophy for selecting the Cabinet. The Council will be chosen by the Minister for 
External Territories. There will be 17 Ministers. We ask that those 17 Ministers choose the inner Executive - the Administrator's Executive Council. That is not our system; the Labor Party does not have provision for a Ministry choosing an inner Cabinet. Our Ministry would be elected by the whole parliamentary Party. What we are asking for is not our system. We are asking that, where the Select Committee on Constitutional Development and the House of Assembly are silent, the Government adopt the same system of selection as that specifically recommended for the selection of the Deputy Chairman. The Select Committee recommended that the 17 Ministers should appoint the Deputy Chairman. The Select Committee was silent on the selection of the other Ministers; it probably overlooked that. We ask that the 17 Ministers who are fit to choose the Deputy Chairman choose the other 9 Ministers. Following the recommendations of the Select Committee and the House of Assembly, the Government has provided that the House of Assembly shall approve, the appointment of the Deputy Chairman. We say that the House of Assembly should approve the appointment of the other 9 Ministers. 
The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  gave to the Government's proposal the status of something that had been recommended by the Select Committee and the House of Assembly. I again draw his attention to the Minister's statement. The Minister stated: 
The Select Committee report was silent on the method of choosing the Minister to sit on the Administrator's Executive Council. 
We cannot be validly accused, as we were of ignoring what the Select Committee has recommended. There is a silence, a void, which the Minister proposes to fill in one way and we propose to fill in another. Our method of filling it is analogous to their recommendations for the Deputy Chairman. I believe that their responsible action in choosing their own Administrator's Executive Council is a unifying thing. 
There was a great undercurrent of bitterness that I experienced in conversations with members of the House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea about the method by which Executive Council Ministers were chosen. Let me give 2 specific examples.  Mr Oala  Oala-Rarua had devoted, I suppose, more than a decade to the problems of labour in Papua New Guinea. He had organised certain unions. He had spoken publicly on all sorts of labour questions. There was an expectation that he would be chosen as the Ministerial Member for Labour, instead of which he was given another portfolio.  Mr Toua  Kapena was chosen as Ministerial Member for Labour. I do not want to be seeming to criticise  Mr Toua  Kapena, but it is simply an historic fact that he had never said a thing on labour, on the conditions of workers, just terms of wages or employment conditions in the whole of his career. The belief was that he was chosen for this position simply because he would not be a nuisance. Some of the members of the House of Assembly believe that he was chosen as a Ministerial Member for Labour precisely because he had no philosophy of labour. I do not want to make that accusation; I merely say that if expatriate officials - the expatriate Administrator and the Minister for External Territories - are to choose who is to be on the inner executive the charge will inevitably be made that they were chosen because they were acceptable - tame, if you like- 
And put into the Cabinet. I do not believe that the Minister would choose yes-men. I am not sure that he would choose some of his major critics, but I do not believe that he would choose yes-men. But in any event I feel that at this stage of history he should not be choosing at all. There are 17 Ministers who are perfectly capable of choosing their most significant member as  Deputy Chairman.  If the Government followed its own philosophy the  Deputy Chairman  would then choose his nine colleagues as the Prime Minister does. But the Government does not follow that philosophy. The Government has the Administrator as an expatriate figure doing it in conjunction with the Minister for External Territories. This is retaining, at a stage of history when we do not feel it is necessary to retain it, the authority of the Canberra Government in the selection of personnel in another Cabinet, the Administrator's inner council. Neither I nor the Minister can claim in what we are proposing the authority of the Select Committee. Neither of us can claim in what we are proposing the authority of the House of Assembly. The Government has left &lt;this point as a silence. We therefore believe it is wiser, in choosing the other  9  members, to use the system that they themselves have indicated in choosing the  Deputy Chairman.  I put forward the amendment accordingly. 
The Opposition welcomes an increase of expenditure on education of $29.7m. We are, unfortunately, not in a position to assess exactly how this will meet the needs in certain key States because the Nationwide Survey of Educational Needs of May 1970 has not yet been conveyed to us in the sense that the 2 biggest States, New South Wales and Victoria, have not tabled their findings. So, we do not know what these additional grants mean in terms of adequacy in relation to the needs of New South Wales and Victoria. The second thing that the Opposition would like to say about this is that it hopes that the States have been sufficiently consulted to be in a position readily to use this money. 
If honourable members look at the history of science laboratories, of library grants and of the finance for teachers colleges, it will be seen that the Commonwealth's action in these respects was quite precipitate. It was highly beneficial to those who actually had a plan to build science laboratories or actually had a plan to build libraries but there were many who, not knowing that this was going to be available, had no plan and did not receive the benefit and States, not knowing that the grant for teachers colleges was to be available, had no plan and were unable to spend money. The expenditure of these sorts of sums of money requires a degree of preparation. I presume however that if this is just a straightout grant, the State authorities and the private authorities will be able to adjust their systems to use the money to the optimum. 
However, I want to say something about this system of making per capita grants to private schools. Surely it is not beyond the wit of man to devise in each State a Catholic education authority and an education authority for the other independent schools, to make a grant to them which may be calculated on a per capita basis and for them to be given the right to spend the money according to need. The Government may lay down guidelines of need, but a Catholic education authority in- Western Australia, shall we say, would get approximately $4.37m - I think that is what the grant will be - and that Catholic education authority could spend the $4. 37m according to need. It would be a better system than the system of making grants tied to specific schools which may not have a need. 
The second weakness in the grants system is that it is geared to schools in being, whereas the great problem for independent or church schools, and especially those of the Catholic Church where it tries to provide schools in parishes regardless of their wealth or poverty, is that there is constant development in new areas but a school has to be in being before it can attract a grant. There must be some means of assisting these church; authorities to bring a school into being, for which this present system does not . adequately allow. We should remember that expenditure on education is economically valid expenditure. I do not believe that there is any economist who seriously regards expenditure in this direction where there are such needs as being inflationary in its effect. Expenditure on schools and hospitals is not inflationary expenditure. The Government already is putting money into areas where there is a great need, and it is not getting a luxury surplus to chase scarse goods or scarse materials. This action which the Government has taken in providing $29.7m is really a token addition. 
It may keep the wolf from the door. I have a feeling, at least so far as Catholic parish schools are concerned, that the money which the Commonwealth provides is always just enough to stop them from sinking under, but not enough to enable them to organise an effective school system. 
I do not imagine that increasing the grant from 35 to $50 for a primary school pupil and from $50 to $68 for a secondary school pupil will solve the problems that were indicated to the country by Archbishop Guilford Young in his television programme, nor will it relieve from bankruptcy the 20 schools to which he referred. The making of a straightout grant of an adequate amount to a Catholic education authority in Tasmania which had a discretionary power to assign this sum of money according to need and which was able to make a greater grant to the most necessitous schools, seems to us to be a better system. But having said that, we consider that the position of education is so parlous that we are not prepared to cavil at additional expenditure of $20m in the State school sector or $9. 7m in the private school sector, although we do protest about the failure of the 2 great States to publicise what are their educational needs. We believe that there is no provision for real alleviation of the poverty of some of the private schools and no provision for real capital advances to enable private schools of the Catholic nature to be built in new parishes. The present system puts a premium on a school being in existence and makes a grant that is just enough to keep the wolf from the door without there being much discretion to apply the money to the areas of greatest need. Having said that, I stress again that we welcome any such increase in expenditure on education. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That  the  debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. By way of explanation I would like to say that Sheik Mujibur Rahman has asked if it would be possible for Australia to take a number of maimed and limbless persons from Bangla Desh and give them the benefit of the great expertise that there is in Australia in the Repatriation Department and the Civilian Maimed and Limbless Association in fitting people with artificial limbs. Sheik 
Mujibur mentioned that the German Democratic Republic had taken  25  such people but the need is very great. I ask the Minister if it would be possible for Australia to give Bangla Desh assistance in this way? 
I move this amendment to the motion that the Stales Grants (Independent Schools) Bill be now read a second time: 
Thai all words after 'That' be omitted with a a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the House while not refusing a second reading to the Bill, is of the opinion that it should provide for the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and nongovernment primary, secondary, and technical schools, and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities'. 
In introducing this Bill the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  differentiated between capital funds made available to the private sector of education and grants for recurrent expenditure. The Minister said: 
Where capital funds are made available to independent schools, the Commonwealth has established objective standards against which the entitlement of an individual school can be judged. This is clearly necessary where capital funds are involved. When the question of recurrent expenditure in independent schools is considered a different set of circumstances applies. The method which the Government has chosen for the provision of recurrent aid to independent schools has been, and remains, the per capita grant, without any kind of means test. 
I think that the Minister uses 2 different concepts to describe the same thing. Where he rejects the principle he uses the emotive expression 'means test' and where he would have standards to test the needs of different schools for capital grants he speaks of objective standards or criteria. Let me say that the Conservative Government of Britain when  Sir Edward  Boyle was Minister for Education totally rejected the conception that is set out by the Minister in rejecting the idea that there also can be standards or norms by which you determine whether there should be differences in the grants to schools according to their need when the subject of recurrent grants is being considered. The report of the Central Advisory Council for Education in England entitled 'Children and their Primary Schools' submitted to  Sir Edward  Boyle, the Minister for Education at the time, says that there are very great differences in educational opportunities for children and the whole purpose of the report is to try to even these. 
The Minister spoke about the different interests of parents. I agree that children are penalised if their parents are indifferent and that they are rewarded if their parents are concerned. But the Minister appeared to accept that as a desirable state of affairs and that fie should leave the children to be penalised if their parents were indifferent or leave them to be rewarded if their parents were concerned, I remind the Minister that the statement in the New Testament that 'to him that hath more shall be given and that to him that hath not shall be taken even that which he has* is a spiritual principal, not a financial or educational one and we ought to be concerned to ensure that to him that bath not educationally more is given and to him that hath - while I would not take anything from him - we do not have to be so concerned that more is given. The British report says:  131. In Chapter 3 we tried to disentangle some of the principal influences that shape the educational opportunities of children, and to assess and compare their importance. The task of abstracting them and measuring the impact made by each when 'all other things are equal' is the continuing concern of research workers. But policy makers and administrators must act in a world where other things never are equal; this, loo, is the world in which the children grow up, where everything influences everything else, where nothing succeeds like success and nothing fails like failure. The outlook and aspirations of their own parents; the opportunities and handicaps of the neighbourhood in which they live; the skill of their teachers and the resources of the schools they go to; their genetic inheritance; and other factors still unmeasured or unknown surround the children with a seamless web of circumstance. 
If we take a look at the independent sector of education, at the position of the greater public schools and at the position of the Catholic schools we can see a very clear difference of need. There are some Catholic schools such as Nudgee in Queensland which could be rated as greater public schools, but by and large the Catholic church has made an effort to reach the poorest child. I would draw the Minister's attention to 'Catholic Schools 1969', which is a Catholic publication. It compares Catholic schools with what might be called the greater public schools, and 1 think it establishes very clearly the difference of need which would justify the Minister in devising a system of differentials in recurrent grants. This is what the publication says: 
In 1968, the 490,818 children in Catholic schools represented 18.46 per cent of children attending schools in Australia. Were Catholic parents to have chosen fee-paying education for their children in the same proportion as is chosen in the rest of the community . . . numbers in Catholic schools would have been in the vicinity of 45,000. 
The writer has made the point that if Catholic schools charged the fees on average that are charged in the greater public schools, instead of having 490,000 children enrolled. Catholic schools would have had 45,000 enrolled. He goes on: 
At State school average teacher-pupil ratio for Australia . . . , 45,000 children would require some 1,870 teachers. In fact Catholic schools enrolled in 1968 II times that number of children, and were staffed by 8 times that number of teachers (14,229). That fact prompts 2 observations. 
That Catholic schools have been in a position io enrol children from homes of a considerably wider range of income levels than have other independent schools. 
This wide coverage, though inevitably tending to contract, has been and remains financially feasible, because of the availability of teachers who arc members of religious orders. 
The story of rising educational costs in Catholic schools is largely, though not exclusively the story of increasing dependence on salaried lay stall. Other factors are increased allowances to religious teachers, longer periods of training, a general rise of educational demands. 
Then, contrasting the growing dependence of Catholic schools on lay teachers, the writer points out that whereas, in 1962, 19.58 per cent of teachers in Catholic schools were lay teachers by 1968 that had risen to 40. i 9 per cent. It is in fact the diminishing proportion of teachers from the religious orders and the rising proportion of lay teachers, who must be paid the same salaries as State school teachers, which is steadily forcing up the costs of Catholic schools. I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a paper which shows the change in the criteria which the United Kingdom takes into account in determining the needs of schools. The Minister has expressed helplessness in the face of this situation, so it would be valuable for him to study how Britain differentiates in its grants for recurrent costs according to the needs of schools. These are the criteria used by the Inner London Educational Authority. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Hallett)Is leave granted There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
RESOURCES ALLOCATED TO PRIMARY SCHOOLS WITH SPECIAL DIFFICULTIES 
As will be seen from the document RS 501/71 all the ILEA's schools were ranked from1 to 650 (two schools on the same site counting as one) first in 1967 and again in 1971. This ranked list has been used by the Authority since then as a basis for allocating various sorts of extra aid. 
The first 132 sites (217 schools) in the list were given an allocation of 600, 750 or 900 according to whether their rolls were less than 200, between 200 and 400 or more than 400.to be spent according to the discretion of the head. Added to this group were those schools which had . 30% or more immigrants (DES definition) on their roll. 
The revised 1971 index and immigrant figures were used for the 1971-72 allocation. 
The first 60 sites (78 schools) on the list were selected by the DES for the teachers in them to receive an extra allowance of 75 (since raised to 83) per annum. 
The first 50 sites on the list were given extra non-teaching staff, Infant schools and departments received one full-time helper per two classes, one of the positions to be filled by a qualified nursery assistant and the remainder by women helpers. Junior schools and departments, in addition to their existing scale of entitlement were given one unit of assistance (i.e., 30 hours) to every four classes. Extra women helper on secretarial assistance was also made available to schools with a high immigrant population. 
The first 100 sites receive an extra capitation allowance of 25p per child on the roll. 
A special E.P.A. Building Programme 1968/69-1969/70 covering both major and minor improvements was instituted giving schools higher up the list priority. 
A Re-furnishing Programme was also started on the same basis as the Re-Building Programme. 
Apart from the Index, 
Schools in deprived areas were given improved teaching staff ratios on the advice of district inspectors. 
The discretionary powers of the Authority under Burnham have been used to provide additional allowance posts. 
Schools with more than 20% immigrants receive a lump sum of 5.5 for every 10% immigrants in excess of 20%. 
ILEA INDEX OF EDUCATIONAL PRIORITY AREAS 
Introduction 
After the publication of the Plowden Report the ILEA constructed an index of educational priority areas. In principle there was no difficulty in defining in general terms what was meant by an 'educational priority area': the Plowden Report itself speaks of areas where 'educational handicaps are reinforced by social handicaps' and the Department's circular 11/67 refers to children in districts that 'are suffering from multiple deprivation because of the combination of several disadvantages in their environment'. The practical problem was one of identifying such areas by a method that was both objective and which also enabled the identification not only of the most deprived areas, but, as important, placed other areas on a scale of relative deprivation. Technically this was a two sided problem, arriving at agreed criteria of educational deprivation, and developing measures of these criteria. 
Criteria 
The Plowden Report lists eight different criteria for identifyingEPA's: 
social class composition 
family size 
overcrowding and sharing of dwellings 
supplements in cash or kind from the State 
poor school attendance and truancy 
children unable to speak English 
retarded, disturbed and handicapped pupils in the schools 
incomplete families. 
Circular 11/67. on school building in priority areas, suggested two broad groups of criteria: 
multiple deprivation because of the combination of several disadvantages in the environment. 
the general quality of the physical environment. 
It lists as examples of the first: 'overcrowding of houses, family size above the average, high incidence of supplements in cash or kind from the State, high incidence of truancy or poor attendance, a rapid turnover of teachers or difficulty in attracting them to the district'. As examples of the second, the following were suggested: 'a concentration of crowded, old, sub-standard and badly maintained homes'. 
Two additional criteria can, therefore, be added: 
poor or inadequate housing 
high teacher turnover. 
A third further criterion was suggested from the Plowden Report which spoke of 'the admission registers where pages of new names with so many rapid crossings out which told their own story of a migratory population': - 
high pupil turnover. 
In attempting to develop a scale of educational priority areas the following general points needed to be borne in mind: - 
ready availability of data 
reliability of data 
standard data, ideally throughout the country and certainly throughout the Authority 
The First Index 
Initially a pilot study was undertaken in two parts of the ILEA to see if it was possible to develop a scale with standard, reliable and reasonably accessible data. Subsequently, information was collected for all ILEA primary schools both on a school-base and on an area-base to give measures of the criteria outlined above, information was collected from the Census, i.e. on an area-base, (initially the 1961 and subsequently the 1966 10 per cent sample census) on criteria for which measures were not available from the school. The catchment area (from which the Census information was derived) for each school was defined arbitrarily in terms of distance; for most schools this was  i  mile radius from the school but for Roman Catholic schools the distance was  i mile  radius. The reason for this was that for schools in the pilot study between 67 per cent and 85 per cent of the children lived within I mile radius of the school. For Roman Catholic schools, however, in order to include a similar proportion of pupils a radius of  i  mile had to be taken. Thus, a school's catchment area was made up of those Census enumeration districts which fell within i mile (or in the case of Roman Catholic schools  i miki)  radius of the school. 
Information was collected on an area-base, i.e. Census, for four criteria: 
Social class composition (criterion I above) 
Large families (criterion 2 above) 
Overcrowding (criterion 3 above) 
Housing stress (criterion 9 above) 
The actual measures taken were respectively: the percentage of employed males in the area in unskilled and semi-skilled jobs, the percentage of children living in households containing more than 6 people, the percentage of households over crowded, i.e. Jiving at a density of more than IS persons per room, and the percentage of households without an inside lavatory. This last measure was the least satisfactory but from the Census information available on an enumeration district basis a measure taking into account the lack of availability of more than one household facility (i.e. piped hot and cold water, fixed bath, inside lavatory, exclusive use of stove and sink) was not obtainable. Similarly, it should be noted that the measure of family size was in fact a measure of large households which contained children. Measures were obtained for 6 criteria from the schools themselves on the following: 
Children receiving free meals (criterion 4 above) 
Absenteeism in schools (criterion 5 above) 
Immigrants in schools (criterion 6 above) 
Children of low ability (criterion 7 above' 
Teacher turnover (criterion 10 above) 
Pupil turnover (criterion 1 1 above) 
Information is routinely collected on measures 5-8 by the Authority. They are nol identical with the Plowden criteria but approximate to them. The Authority has no general information on families receiving cash and other supplementary help, and therefore the percentage of children receiving free meals was taken as the most accessible measure of this criterion. Standard and comparable information was not available on truancy and poor attendance, and therefore percentage non-attendance in one week was used as an alternative. Children unable to speak English involves considerable judgment on the teacher's part, and therefore the percentage of immigrants was considered a more satisfactory measure. Finally, the percentage of handicapped and disturbed children in the school cannot easily be reduced to a standard scale, whereas the routine transfer procedure used by the Authority gives comparable information on the distribution of pupils' abilities and performance and these are measured by verbal reasoning scores. Special surveys were undertaken to provide information on the last two criteria. Teacher turnover was measured as the percentage of full-time teachers in each school who had taught there for less than 3 years. Pupil turnover was measured as the movement of pupils in and out of the school within the school year as a percentage of the total roll. (Allowance was made for normal entrants, i.e. aged 5) 
Table 1 lists the criteria, measures, and sources used to make up the index. 

<graphic href="076131197203073_64_1.jpg"></graphic>

Storing 
There were three stages in the development of the index which was made up of 10 equally weighted items. 
Initially it was intended to express the school's score on each of the criteria listed above as a percentage of the national average score, then sum these percentages, and rank schools on the basis of this total score. This exercise was completed, but found unsatisfactory because the contribution of a single criterion to the total score depended upon the range of observations and the variation between these and the national average. For one criterion, in particular, this gave distorted results, namely immigrants: the national average percentage of pupils who are immigrants (DES definition) is2.5 per cent, the ILEA average is 15.8 per cent and certain schools have 65 per cent. Therefore using the method of scoring outlined a school with 25 per cent immigrants would score 1,000, one with 50 per cent 2,000. Such a score on this criterion alone would mean that the school would rank as an EPA school. Finally, certain help is already provided for schools with a high proportion of immigrants, and, therefore, it would be unwise to overweight this criterion. 
Therefore, it was decided to revise the scoring method to ensure that each criterion contributed equally to the total score. This can be done by ranking each set of observations so that the lowest score is 0 and the highest 100. The formula for this is the following: 

<graphic href="076131197203073_65_0.jpg"></graphic>

By definition the lowest will score 0 (i.e. lowest - lowest = 0) and the highest 100. 
The difficulty about the method outlined above is that extreme observations at both ends, may distort the scores of other schools on a particular criterion. In an attempt to overcome this problem the range of observations for each criterion was taken to be plus or minus 2 standard deviations from the mean. Thus, all schools with an observation more than 2 standard deviations would score 100 and all schools with an observation of less than 2 standard deviations would score 0. 
Final scores, Y, were obtained in this way: 

<graphic href="076131197203073_65_1.jpg"></graphic>

The Second Index 
Very early on it was decided that no index could be definitive for all time and that frequent revisions would probably be necessary, both of criteria and means. Accordingly a full-scale revision of the first index was undertaken in 1970. 
The following criticisms had been made of the first index. 
Validity of some of the criteria - 
Pupil absenteeism. This was not regarded as a very good measure either of truancy which in the primary schools anyway is low, or of the physical health of the children. 
Teacher turnover. The index should measure need i.e. the social and educational deprivation of the children. It should exclude measures of provision or efficiency. Thus, a school in which the teachers stay should not be penalised. 
Adequacy of some of the measures. The measures should relate as precisely as possible to the criteria. For instance, the original measure of housing stress - lack of ah inside lavatory - was inadequate. Further, as there was already the criteria relating to overcrowding it was felt that two housing means rather outweighed this factor. 
Out of date and inaccurate data. The first index only contained information relating to the academic year 1966-67. 
In the light of the above criticism a new index was constructed using the following criteria, measures and sources (Table 2). Scoring and weighting of the factors remained the same. 

<graphic href="076131197203073_65_2.jpg"></graphic>

It was considered important to include three new criteria: 
Adequacy of Buildings 
From many discussions with Heads, it is evident that the age of a building is by no means the most important factor for primary schools. Rather it is overcrowding and for this reason the criterion of floor space per child was used. 
Evidence of Parental Interest 
Schools where there is a lack of parental interest have a more difficult task and the best measure of this which is readily available is the presence or not of a parent at the first medical inspection when a child starts school. 
Teacher Stress 
Although teacher turnover has been rejected, there should be some measure of teacher stress and it was therefore suggested that the number of short absences of teachers should be included. The criteria which were considered unsatisfactory, i.e., of households without lavatories and pupil absences, were dropped. 
Those criteria for which yearly returns are made to the ILEA were accordingly updated. More recent and accurate Information on Social Class - Large Families was available from the Special Literary Survey carried out by the ILEA in 1968 and this was used for these two measures. 
Continued revision will be made of the Index as newer measures and more accurate information become available. 
1 think that the Minis ter would be well advised to speak about the criteria for capital grants and also to speak about the criteria for recurrent costs instead of using the words 'objective standards' in one case and 'means test' in the other case, because I think that merely confuses the people. I would like to make one remark on the other measure. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  promised that an additional $20m would be made available before June 1973 for capital grants to the public sector in education. Because of the way the States set out their financial business, it is very difficult to find out what amount of money from Commonwealth grants goes into State school education. I have asked the Parliamentary Library staff to find out as much as possible about this for me. As far as I can ascertain, the States will have an expenditure of a capital nature in this financial year of about $220m on the public sector of education. 
How much of that comes from the Commonwealth? It is not easy to find out because we do not entirely know how much of the $209m which is mentioned in this Bill, which is increased by $6.6m this year, the States are spending on the public sector of education. But as far as one can determine, it is about three quarters of that$209m which would be about $l65m. So from the Commonwealth grants, about $165m is going to expenditure of a capital nature in the public sector of education. We would have to deduct from that $165m the expenditure on capital costs for university education to find out what is being spent at the primary and secondary level. I believe that the figure for university education is about $40m, so we might say that$125m is going in the capital construction costs of secondary and primary education, and to that will be added $6.6m this financial year and$20m for a full year. That will give us some comparison of the rising grants. 
The Minister is a partisan of what are called the independent schools, the greater public schools. No-one need be an opponent of the greater public schools. The question is: What do they need? The Minister says that we must have objective standards as far as capital grants are concerned, so I presume that if a school has a swimming pool we will not give it a grant for another swimming pool, or another swimming pool in the following year. When it comes to the physical property that can be seen, the Government is forced to use common sense, but it is not common sense to make the same kind of grant to a greater public school with fees of more than $1,000 a year as is made to a poorer private school which has much lower fees which may have many migrant children who need to be taught English and which has all sorts of difficulties and disabilities which the more privileged schools do not have. There is a refusal to face this fact, and this refusal is well set out in 'Critical Writings on Australian Education', which is a recently published edited book containing educational writings of a good many educational thinkers in Australia. One passage states: 
The longstanding tie between private schools and Australia's business and landowning families scarcely needs "proving": their continued and current exclusiveness, too, might safely be taken for granted. Surprisingly, this is denied by spokesmen for some of the schools. "The girls come from all parts of society. . . . The old independent school 'exclusiveness' is dead." says one headmistress (Woodlands, South Australia); "City girls . . . might be the daughter of anyone -  judge, doctor, dentist, or manual worker" (Sydney Girls' Grammar); "Parents cover a wide spectrum of society . . . and St. Peter's can be open to ail who qualify" (St. Peter's, Adelaide). 
St Peter's can be open to all who can qualify': How can anybody say that? The author goes on: 
One may forgive wishful thinking, but figures speak for themselves. For many years now the independent schools have educated about the same proportion of children (a slight drop is reported recently) and its social composition can be fairly readily checked. Among school leavers in 1959-60 on.y 10 per cent of boys from independent schools had skilled or unskilled fathers compared with 52 per cent of those in government schools. The skilled and unskilled account for 54 per cent of the population. Forty-eight per cent of the children leaving from independent schools had fathers who were farmers, professionals and higher administrators compared with  M  per cent from government schools. 
It is quite obvious that if there is a high level of fees, children from parents of a high income group will attend that school. The author points out the income level that would be necessary to pay these fees. I put one qualification to what the writer of that article had to say about the income levels that would be necessary to pay those fees and that is that I believe it is true that in a school like Geelong Grammar today many parents have to pay fees out of capital. Not a great many people can pay the fees out of income. This is the position to which sections of the community are being driven. Obviously if there is a crash in wool prices and there are great pastoral families who have been prosperous and have developed the habit over generations of sending their children to a school like Geelong Grammar, such families will either pay for their sons out of capital or will have to withdraw the children from the school. One of the most interesting defences that ever was put up for Geelong Grammar - I do not know whether it was valid - was that when a man who once had attended that school was asked: 'What did you get out of Geelong Grammar?' he said: 'I got ideals out of Geelong Grammar so that I do not have an income that enables me to send my children to Geelong Grammar*. So if it is true that it gave him high character and self-sacrifice in the community and he did not have much of an income, then he could not send his own children to the school that he had attended. 
The point I am making is that we want the establishment of criteria which will determine a differential level of assistance for schools according to their need. Earlier the Minister for Education and Science was quite opposed to a survey of educational needs. For years the Government put up a steady resistance to the idea of a survey of educational needs. This resistance was prolonged. Finally the Government got around to a survey of educational needs. Now, with great haste, the Minister is saying that with the passage of time that survey of educational needs is no longer valid. I quite agree with what the Minister says. A survey of educational needs was made in 1969 but by 1972 that survey is no longer valid. This is precisely why the Labor Party wants an Australian schools commission charged with the duty of continually examining educational needs and making representations on that subject to the Commonwealth Government the whole time. 
There are alternative lines of attack on what the Labor Party proposes. One is to suddenly become State righters and to say: If you have an Australian schools commission you are trying to take over the administration of the State schools. You are trying to centralise them on the Commonwealth Government.' I have been 27 years in this Parliament and I saw the prolonged resistance of  Sir Robert  Menzies for 15 solid years - from 1949 until about the elections of 1963  -  to Commonwealth intervention in education except at the university level. He played an innings like Bill Lawrie. A member would ask a question on the subject of education and the ball would come straight back along the pitch to the bowler: 'It is a State matter'. Then, when he was hard pressed in a certain election and the Democratic Labor Party indicated where preferences would go if there were science blocks, or something like that, there began a steady Commonwealth movement into the field of education. It would have been much better for Australian children if this decision had been made in principle. Instead of this, we have had Commonwealth intervention in education which has been like Topsy - it just growed. First we had science blocks, then library grants and then something else. These were all minor matters. It was anything rather than systematic thinking. But steadily we have been forced  imo  the field of more systematic thinking and we are now asking the Government to  take  this position further. 
Earlier when I was speaking the Minister's attention was distracted. 1 repeat, for his benefit, that when he said that the survey of educational needs now had limited validity the Labor Party agreed with him and this is why we believe there should be a body, such as an Australian schools commission, making a continuous survey of needs. That is one of the purposes behind this amendment. There is need for us to be more clear, from the financial statements that come before us from time to time, how much of the grants that are made to the States of the nature of the $209m referred to in the Bills that we are debating cognately are spent in different directions. We do not always know the degree to which the Commonwealth is assisting the public sector of education because in making these grants to the States the Commonwealth does not specify how the States will spend them. This is left to the States. However I believe that from year to year it should be possible to have presented to us in the House information on how the States did spend grants of a capital nature in the previous year. We cannot see what the Commonwealth Parliament is doing in relation to its financial grants to the States unless from time to time we have these kind of expenditures specified. 
Tn the private sector of education the Minister always professes to see that there are scintilating experiments in education done in schools which are not under State auspices. Very few educationalists can see that. I am prepared to concede that an experiment like Timber Top is a tremendously valuable experiment in Australian education but the truth about the private sector of education in the main is that educationally it has been fairly conservative. There has not been a bold variation in any Australian education. Probably there will begin to be variation in Australian education as we begin to abandon dependence on public examinations and come more and more to aggregate which enables schools to have approved courses. 
This may lead to educational experiementation but in the Catholic sector of education, in the greater public schools and, for that matter in the State, schools of Australia 1 have not seen very much indication that they have gone in for bold experimentation. In point of fact we are beginning to get schools of a private nature, which are not greater public schools, that are actually educationally experimental. But they attract the interest of only a few parents and they are parents who very often are educationists who are interested in educational experimentation. However, their pupil enrolments are in the vicinity of SO to 80 and they are not significant in numbers even if they are in educationally pioneering in Australian education today. The purpose of the amendment which the Opposition has moved and the purpose of the argument which 1 advance on behalf of the Labor Party is to obtain an efficient deployment of our resources for education. We want the underprivileged child, whether in the private sector or in the public sector of education, to have a greater equality of educational opportunity with those from more favoured sections of society. One merely misrepresents the position that we are advancing if, as the Government constantly does, one says: You me.an you are against Geelong Grammar' or 'You are trying to call some children privileged'. in my philosophy a child is privileged today if he comes from a stable home, if his parents are really interested in him, if they have love for him and if they have discipline in their own lives, all of which give him a rational environment. He may come from quite a low income group or he may come from a high income group. I recently spoke at one of the most privileged schools in Australia and about 15 per cent of- the children there were from wealthy broken homes. They were simply dumped there. They compensated with fixations on masters. The master had to stand in loco parentis. I do not regard them as privileged children at all. They came from quite unhappy home backgrounds. 1 do not make the financial criterion the sole criterion of whether a child is fortunate or not. That is quite nonsensical really. The things that make for emotional or mental stability, such as love in the home, are the things that really count. At the same time in relation to Commonwealth financial grants and material assistance to schools, we ask the Minister to reconsider the position that has been taken, that in recurrent grants there are no criteria by which one can differentiate between the needs of schools in different sectors of the social spectrum and we ask that need be taken into account. This is the reason for the second reading amendment which I have moved. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
It had been the intention of the Opposition to move that the termination of appointments the person concerned should be notified in writing as to the reasons for thetermination. I understand from what the Minister has said that the Government acceptsthis principle and that the new sub-clause (6.) at the end of the clause will cover the 3 situations which we had in mind.In view of the Minister's assurance we will not persist with our amendment and we accept the Government's amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I move: 
In sub-clause 3, after paragraph (a) insert the following paragraph: "(aa) make a person or persons available to the Government of a State of Australia or to an authority of such a Government for the performance of teaching duties in a school or schools conducted in that State by that Government or authority.". 
The purpose of this amendment is to broaden the scope of the Commonwealth Teaching Service so that those teachers trained under it may be available easily if necessary without reciprocity - which is provided for in a later part of the Bill - to the government of a State or to authorities under the authority of a State government. We believe that the Commonwealth should be generously planning the training of teachers to have a body of teachers highly trained and available for service anywhere in the Commonwealth for Commonwealth authorities or for State governments or for authorities established by State governments. We, of course, also subscribe to those clauses of the Bill which permit the services of these teachers beyond the limits of the Commonwealth in the islands of the Pacific and so on. But we believe that the Commonwealth should show that it is prepared to be generous to the State governments. It would be a very good thing if teachers not trained within the jurisdiction of State governments were available for service to State governments of their own choice. We believe that if this amendment is accepted it will provide an important way in which the Commonwealth can assist the States. 
The Opposition is not particularly worried about this amendment because we believe that we will be in charge of the Bill in January next year and we will make these decisions ourselves. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 9 to 15  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16.  (3.) The Commissioner may, and, if so directed by the Minister, shall - 
make a person or persons available to an authority conducting a Commonwealth school or Commonwealth schools in a Territory other than the Northern Territory of Australia for the performance of teaching duties in that school or those schools; and 
make a person or persons available to the Government of a country other than Australia or to an authority of such a Government for the performance of teaching duties in a school or schools conducted in that country by that Government or authority. (5.) Before making a person or persons available in accordance with the preceding provisions of this section to an authority or authorities conducting a school or schools in a Territory, the Commissioner shall consult that authority or those authorities as to the persons required for the efficient operation of the school or schools. 
The Commissioner shall not direct an officer to perform duties in a place outside Australia and the Territories unless the officer consents to perform duties in that place. (9.) In this section, a reference to the authority conducting a school or schools shall - 
in relation to a school or schools conducted by the Commonwealth - be read as a reference to the Department of State responsible for the conduct of the school or schools; and 
in relation to a school or schools conducted by the Administration of a Territory or conducted in a Territory by a prescribed institution - be read as a reference to the Administration of that Territory. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, insert the following clause: " (6.) There shall be a Commonwealth Teaching Service Commission the members of which shall be appointed by the Governor-General.". 
This amendment is intended to clear the path for a commission of 3 instead of a Teaching Service Commissioner. It is to enable the Opposition to propose specifically the points that it proposed generally during the second reading debate, namely, that there should be a representative of the teachers as one commissioner and another representative, the view of the Opposition which was fully explained being that there should be a commission of 3. So, instead of the single Commissioner, we are seeking the establishment of a Commonwealth Teaching Service Commission. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: ). Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 2. Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I referred to a trained teaching profession with a freedom of movement around Australia or into the neighbouring islands of the Pacific, according to their own choice. The report of the Fifth Commonwealth Education Conference states in paragraph 33: 
The Committee recognised that employing authorities have responsibility for positive action designed to enhance the status of teachers. Among other measures, they need to provide appropriate physical conditions; to provide appropriate conditions of employment; to accept the obligation to provide adequate initial training; to establish minimum qualifications for the employment of teachers; to accept the obligation to provide opportunity for upgrading of teachers through in-service education and to be responsible for the removal of petty restrictions; to provide opportunities for regular consultation between teachers, administrators and planners. 
This we feel would certainly be achieved by the Commonwealth if it were to establish a free teaching service because if you have a body of trained teachers available for educational authorities to draw upon, seeking to attract them in competition, it is very likely that they will comply with those conditions set out in paragraph 34 about the status and the conditions of teachers. It is regrettable that there is this subtle downgrading of the teachers who are going to be trained under this scheme. I do not imagine that the honourable gen tlemen opposite, however much they may agree with everything that the Minister says about the private sector of education, can be happy about the not very subtle downgrading of the status of State schools in every utterance that the Minister makes, as happened today. 
The crime of the South Australian Government apparently is its expenditure on the State schools. I am perfectly sure that if the Commonwealth Government made more funds available the South Australian State Government would spend them very heartily in any sector of education. But after 34 years of Playford and a form of education very similar to that in Victoria where private education as elitist education for long was far superior to that of the State, there was a need for upgrading the status of State schools. The Government of South Australia must be answerable to its own electorate for whatever it does. The Minister never refers to the Western Australian Government because he cannot make his debating point in that way. There is no central Labor authority directing each State government, whether it is of a Labor character or not, what it shall do in education, saying to the South Australian Government, for example 'You shall do the same as Western Australia' or to Western Australia 'You shall do the same as South Australia'. That is the Minister's debating point. It is not the truth of the Australian situation. Nor is it the truth about the structure of the Labor Party in this matter. 
If, for instance, we took over the financing of tertiary education entirely and made the same grant to the States and said 'The additional money that you will have because you are no longer burdened with tertiary education you are to spend as you see fit' each of the State governments would be answerable for the way in which they spent the money. As a man who professes to believe in decentralisation this is precisely what the Minister should agree to. I may or may not agree that what  Mr Hudson  does is the optimum in South Australia but if I believe in decentralisation as the Minister professes he does then there should be no central Labor Party authority directing him, as the Minister argues that there is, and then complains when it actually happens that there are differences in the way that different State Labor governments administer their funds. 
Coming back to the points that we have made in this debate, the provision of an advisory council to assist the Commission to be representative of the community and of educational research bodies is an important consideration. No legislation that has come before this Parliament for a long time has been greeted with such waves of unenthusiasm. It was greeted with waves of unenthusiasm by a Catholic parents association down in Victoria. It was greeted with wave? of unenthusiasm by the parents and citizens of Canberra. It was greeted without enthusiasm by the Australian Teachers Federation. It was greeted without enthusiasm by the parents and teachers associations of a number of Australian States. Yet all the Minister can do is to stand up in this House and say: 'I am right to exclude the teacher representatives from having any say in the control of this scheme. I am right to make it answerable to the Public Service bureaucracy and I am right to exclude any members of the community from having any representation on an advisory council.' Then the Minister turns around and says that he opposes bureaucracy and that the Opposition supports it. This was  a  most astonishing performance in view of the fact that every dissenting decision that the Minister makes in relation to the Commonwealth Teaching Service is a decision for bureaucracy. I repeat: One Commissioner, no teaching representatives, no representatives from educational research fields, no representatives from the public and the Commission to be answerable to the Public Service Board. The Minister is immune to the protests of parents' organisations throughout the Commonwealth just as he is immune to protests from the Teaching Service. 
The amendments which the Opposition will later move have already been outlined by me but I would like to make a comment on one amendment that we propose to make in regard to clause 33 of the Bill. It is not wise to make the position of a woman teacher who is pregnant analogous in her leave entitlements to somebody sitting in an office who is pregnant. It is not as easy to carry pregnancy in front of a class as it is working in an office. Therefore we believe that the leave conditions for a pregnant woman teacher set out in this legislation are insufficiently generous. We believe that a woman teacher should have leave on pay long before the time of confinement and long before the time when her appearance could become embarrassing because the circumstances of teaching are special circumstances. They are not analogous to those in an office. We also believe that if there are disabilities for the child or the woman after the birth of the child the leave should be longer than is at present proposed. For those reasons we will move an amendment to clause 33. Our amendment will provide that an officer shall be entitled to receive her normal salary in respect of a period of absence from duty in accordance with the clause which provides for pregnancy. We also do not like the illiberal provisions whereby the pregnancy leave does not apply to a temporary teacher. If a temporary teacher becomes pregnant she can hop it without pay, as far as the Commonwealth Government is concerned, under this legislation. This is a very poor attitude because temporary teachers can be highly qualified professionally, can be very important in a service, and you may wish to retain their services. 
So we propose extensions of leave beyond the bureaucratic rigidity of this clause when we propose that nothing contained in or done under this clause prevents the grant of leave of absence with pay on the production of a medical certificate relating to herself or to the child in support of an extension of leave to an officer in respect of the period in excess of the 26 weeks referred to in sub-clause (1.) of this clause. This is an important proposal. I stress that the leave for a teacher in this respect is not analogous to leave in the Public Service generally. 
Since this Bill differentiates between an officer and a temporary employee, we. provide in our proposed amendment that a temporary employee shall take leave of absence and be entitled to be paid maternity leave and such leave benefits on account of pregnancy as are applicable to a female officer, that is, a full time teacher under this legislation. What we are proposing in relation to this Bill is dignity for the teaching profession, freedom of movement of trained teachers into various educational authorities without direction, great flexibility for this body to be used in the Pacific generally than is provided for in the legislation, greater flexibility for these teachers to be used within the States, higher professional standards by developing and utilising educational faculties in universities, the participation of teachers in the government of this scheme, and the participation of the community. 
When the Minister is speaking, as he often is, about the further decentralisation of education, bringing into the educational process the interests of local communities, he advances the argument that the minds of qualified people in the community brought to bear on educational problems are a valuable addition to the government of education. That is his argument. We accept that argument. He accuses us, of course, of not accepting it. We accept that argument and we will be interested to watch how the Minister will vote on our amendment providing for the representation of the community generally and specialised educational research bodies in the advisory council, not a governing council, to assist what we hope will be  3  commissioners responsible to the Minister, not one commissioner responsible to the Public Service Board. 
I am sorry that the Opposition must persist with this amendment. I invite the attention of the House to the plain meaning of the words which the Minister says makes our amendment unnecessary. Sub-clause (4.) of clause 16 states: 
Where a State or an authority of a State has made, or proposes to make, a person or persons available to an authority or authorities conducting a Commonwealth school or Commonwealth schools for the performance of teaching duties in that school or those schools, the Commissioner may, and, if so directed by the Minister, shall, make a person or persons available to that State or to that authority of that State for the performance of teaching duties in a school or schools conducted by that State or by that authority of that State. 
It is clearly conditional upon the State having originally given to the Commonwealth or proposing to give to the Commonwealth the services of a teacher. I do not mind that. It is fair enough that there should be exchanges but in addition we want the Commonwealth to create a teaching service the teachers of which will be free to go to serve in a State whether or not that State has given teachers to teach in a Commonwealth school. I suggest that that is a difference. I respect the Minister's advice but on the other hand the Parliamentary Draftsman has written in exceptionally plain English for a parliamentary draftsman that what is intended is an exchange. We do not seek in our amendment that the State should reciprocate beforehand by offering services or giving the services of a State officer to the Commonwealth. We are not going to say this is  a  vast difference but it is an important principle in our idea of wanting a free teaching service. Therefore we will persist with our amendment. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Beazley's)  be agreed to. 
-I move: 
Omit sub-clause (6.), insert the following subclause. " (6.) The Commissioner shall not direct an officer to perform duties in a school conducted by an authority unless the officer consents to perform duties for that authority.". 
Clause 16(6.) as set out by the Minister states: 
The Commissioner shall not direct an officer to perform duties in a place outside Australia and the Territories unless the officer consents to perform duties in that place. 
We have no objection to that sub-clause, but it does not go far enough. Consonant with our idea of its being a free teaching service, we do not believe that the Commissioner should have the power to compel a teacher to teach under any authority and not merely, as the Government provides, that the Commissioner should not have power to compel a teacher to teach outside Australia or Australia's Territories. The Government admits that the Commissioner cannot make a teacher teach in Samoa, for instance, but we believe that the Commissioner should not be empowered to compel a teacher against his will to teach anywhere. It is a trained teaching service, and in our view the teachers themselves should nominate the authority under which they wish to teach. If they wish to teach in the Australian Capital Territory then they should teach in the Australian Capital Territory; if they wish to teach in the Northern Territory they should teach in the Northern Territory, and so on. They cannot of course force themselves on the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory or any other authority they nominate but they can refuse to go and teach under an authority to which it may be suggested that they go. The Government gives the Commissioner the power to compel a teacher to teach under any authority unless that authority is outside the Commonwealth and its territories. We want to free this teaching service, make it more flexible and less rigid. We will have a trained body of teachers, and they should have the right to choose under what authorities they are prepared to teach. 
 I move: 
In sub-clause (2.). omit paragraph (a). 
This is a rather extraordinary paragraph because the Government ties itself up and then shows us by a virtuoso performance of an Houdini act how you get out of it in another part of the same clause. Clause 20 (2.) states: 
Subject to the next succeeding sub-section,  a  person shall not be appointed as an officer unless - 
he is a British subject; 
The Commissioner can appoint only a British subject -I am not quite sure whether that terminology is not outmoded; I suppose an Australian citizen is a British subject. But having tied the Commissioner up by providing that he cannot appoint  a  teacher unless the teacher is a British subject in sub-clause 3, the Bill states: 
The Commissioner may, with the approval of the Minister, appoint as an officer a person who is not a British subject . . . 
Then there follows all sorts of complicated wording. Having forbidden the Commissioner to appoint somebody who is not  a  British subject the Bill then provides that he can appoint a non-British subject if he has the permission of the Minister. The Opposition does not believe that the first qualification is necessary. 
WhenI was aged 12 years I used to read 'Magnet' and 'Gem' in which there were always French and German masters who, being foreigners, were ipso facto quaint and funny. If 'Magnet' and 'Gem* were liberal enough to contemplate teaching staff who were non-British subjects even in quite conservative schools like Greyfriars and St Jim's, it is quite possible that the Commonwealth should allow the Commissioner to appoint to the Commonwealth Teaching Service people who are not British subjects without having to get the special approval of the Minister. As a matter of fact, from the point of view of language teaching it would be extremely wise to have non-British subjects as teachers. We are beginning to get many appointments of Japanese, Chinese and other nonBritish subjects to teach their languages. It is quite important that this service should be extended and that the Commissioner is unnecessarily tied up. We need not have all these qualifications involving the Minister. I do not presume that if this qualification were deleted the Commissioner would start appointing right and left the yellow peril, which is the term sometimes used in discussions on immigration policies; but he should, if he is an intelligent man, be able to select good non-British subjects as teachers. The Opposition does not feel there is a need to provide in this clause that the Commissioner has to get the special permission of the Minister before appointing non-British subjects, and I move accordingly. 
I notice that the honourable and noble member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  has identified himself with his colleague from McPherson  (Mr Barnes).  I would like to pick up a point made by the honourable member for McPherson, because I think that we should come back to the realm of fact. With considerable heat the honourable member for McPherson said that the Australian Labor Party would be flooding the country with Indians and Pakistanis. The honourable member and his colleagues had better take a look at the Government's record in this regard. It is bringing out 4,000 Indians a year. I do not know how many Pakistanis it is bringing out, but that is how many Indians the Government is bringing out at present. If that is undersirable the honourable member for McPherson should not try to pin it on the Labor Party; he should say it about the Government he supports. 
I have not criticised the Government for bringing out 4.000 Indians, but the honourable member for McPherson has said that that is something which the Labor Party would do if it were in office; yet the Government he supports is already doing it. Apparently that is all right. If the honourable member regards that as reprehensible he should say so to the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes). 
The second thing 1 want to draw to the attention of the House is the remarks of the honourable member for McPherson about Americans. 1 am not an admirer of the violence or of the other unpleasant features that are plaguing the United States of America, but I thing it is very bad to say that the American teachers who come here would advocate those things to Australian children. That is grossly unjust. If the honourable member for Mcpherson wants to keep those features of American life out of Australia be had better have a look at the American television programmes that are seen here by thousands and thousands of children. He should not blame the sorts of things that are happening in America on the people who have taken on the vocation of teaching and who I am perfectly certain would not teach values ot drugs, violence or anything else like that in Australian life. 
Another matter which needs to be considered is the lack of precision of the expression 'British subject'. A British subject - in the classical definition anyhow - is a person who owes allegiance to the monarch because he was born in the monarch's dominions. You cannot turn that into a race instrument. A Papuan is a British subject; a New Guinean is not. A Papuan is both a British subject and an Australian citizen. There are many other coloured people who are British subjects. So if you wanted to use a race instrument against teachers you would never use an expression like 'British subject' because it is not an expression of race; it is an expression of the location of birth. Under the classic and medieval definition of subjecthood a person owes allegiance to the monarch because he is born in the monarch's dominions. It has nothing to do with colour, religion, culture or anything else. In point of fact in days of the Empire every person born in India was a British subject and a subject of the Emperor. 
And those born there before 1947 can still elect to be so, I understand, although I may not be correct in that. The Opposition feels that to say, as the honourable member for Mallee has said, that the only way to ensure that we do not get undesirable teachers is to use the terminology 'British subject' is to use a very imprecise instrument because, after all, the man who sold all of Britain's submarine secrets was a British subject. Surely honourable members opposite are not going to say that the mere terminology 'British subject' is a safeguard. There are a few other qualities of character as well. But if the Government is going to persevere with this proviso it will mean that only if a person is not a British subject is it a matter on which the Minister is better qualified than the Commissioner. The Commissioner is better qualified than the Minister if the person is a British subject, but in some mystic way the Commissioner must be left free if the person is not a British subject because, according to the honourable member for Mallee, the Commissioner is likely to appoint undesirables. If the 
Commissioner is likely to appoint undesirables he should not be the Commissioner in the first place. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2.), omit ', with the approval of the Public Service Board,'. 
The intention of this amendment is to vest in the Commissioner himself the power to determine the salary or range of salary applicable to a position in the service. It is felt that this would be more in keeping with the professional standing of teachers and also the efficient work of the Commission. 
 I formally move the amendment circulated in my name, which reads: 
In sub-clause (1.), omit ', with the approval of the Public Service Board,'. 
I think the issues have been fully canvassed. The Opposition feels a later amendment to clause 28 is more important. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 27 agreed to. 
Clause 28.  (3.) Notwithstanding anything contained in the last preceding sub-section, 'efficiency', in relation to promotions to such senior positions in the Service as are prescribed, includes not only special qualifications and aptitude for the discharge of the duties of the kinds required to be performed by the officer filling the position concerned but also for the discharge of the duties of the kinds required to be performed by officers filling positions of higher status in the Service, 
 I formally move the amendment circulated in my name, which reads: 
In sub-clause (3.), omit 'not only' . . . 'but also for the discharge of the duties of the kinds required to be performed by officers filling positions of higher status in the Service'. 
Clause 28 appears to the Opposition to be rather unfair. Let us assume that the position of deputy head teacher were advertised and a man who applied for that position did not get it because what was in the mind of the selection authority was whether he was capable of filling a superior position, for example, that of school inspector. What is presented for application would be one position, but unless those final words are struck out, the promotion would in fact be made for other positions beyond the one actually advertised. I believe that this is unfair. A particular position advertised attracts an applicant who feels that he has the qualifications for it. He may be qualified to be a very good deputy headmaster, he may be qualified to be a very good senior master in some speciality, or he may have the attributes of a very good head teacher, but his application fails because those responsible for making the decision have in mind a position not advertised - that of school inspector. It is unfair if in fact the position which is advertised is not really what the authority has in mind. There are other considerations operating which the applicant cannot reasonably anticipate. While the promotion is to a certain position, what is really being taken into consideration is a person's qualifications for going beyond that position - a fact not mentioned. We feel that there is an element of misrepresentation in this situation. If a position is advertised, that is what should be in mind. A man may be an excellent headmaster and a poor school inspector but if the headmastership is to be awarded because the man chosen is one who may be promoted to a more senior counselling position in the education department, then those who apply for the position are being subjected to adverse considerations which they cannot reasonably anticipate. That is why I have moved the amendment 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Is it the wish of the Committee that the 2 amendments be taken together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
The circulated amendment contains an error. I move: 
In sub-clause (3.), omit paragraph (b). 
Omit sub-clause (4.). 
In sub-clause (3.) paragraph (a) omit: 'except where the next succeeding paragraph applies . . . or'. 
Sub-clause (3.) would then read: 
Upon an appeal or appeals being made against a provisional promotion, a Promotions Appeal Board specified by the Commissioner shall make full inquiry into the claims of the appellant or appellants and the claims of the officer provisionally promoted and determine the appeal or appeals. 
I think these amendments could be taken as one. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clauses (4.) and (5.), insert the following sub-clauses: (4.) An officer is entitled to receive her normal salary in respect of a period of absence from duty in accordance with this section. (5.) Nothing contained in, or done under, this section prevents the grant of leave of absence with pay, on the production of a medical certificate, relating to herself or the child, in support of an extension of leave, to an officer in respect of a period in excess of the 26 weeks referred to in sub-section (1.) of this section. (5a) A female temporary employee who has become pregnant shall take leave of absence and be entitled to paid maternity leave and such leave benefits on account of pregnancy as are applicable to a female officer in accordance with this section.'. 
The intention of this amendment is to liberalise the terms of leave for a pregnant woman beyond the time which seems to be implied in the Bill and to give such a woman leave if there is something wrong with the infant. The Bill as it now stands gives leave to full time officers but not to temporary officers. The intention of the amendment is to extend the benefit of pregnancy leave to temporary officers. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
I would like to make brief comments on the question of improper conduct and the question of the oath. When I was trained as a teacher one principle stressed was that the teachers relationship with a child in a class must be absolutely antiseptic. The teacher was not entitled to put a hand on a child, not entitled to put a hand on a child's head, not entitled physically with the hand to hit a child. Advice was given about not keeping girls in after school. My lecturers stressed also that a teacher's relationship with his class could have all the grace and courtesy imaginable but it should have the same antiseptic character as applies to the medical profession and the relationship between a doctor and a patient. 
I regret that round Australia there seem to have been departures from these standards, more at the tertiary level of education, and some have argued that a lecturer or a professor at a university was entitled to be personally involved with his students. I am now not talking about the truth or otherwise of the charges in one celebrated case. What is disturbing is that there are academics who justify the professor if the charges are true. I believe legislation must provide for proper procedures to determine whether charges against a teacher are true. That is another matter. I think that the best of the teaching profession acceptshigh standards, and I think that it is important to reaffirm them today. 
Honourable members have spoken about the oath being archaic because a teacher has to swear to bear true allegiance to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second, her heirs and successors according to law. No member of the South African Parliament enacting the Republic violated that oath because the  President  of the Republic is  Her  Majesty's- successor as Head of State according to law. The monarch, as in the case of South Africa, can sign the legislation that creates a republic and ends the monarchy. I have no particular objection to that oath myself because I think the association of the Commonwealth countries under the Crown is still a valuable one, but in this day and age I think there needs to be more precision in an oath indicating what is really in question. I presume that the naval officer in the United Kingdom who sold Britain's naval secrets recently took that oath. If the oath is to have any meaning at all it must refer precisely to actions which will destroy the integrity and independence of the country. The present wording of the oath of allegiance goes back to mediaeval times when the totality of the nation and the duty of allegiance were expressed in the person of the Monarch. I have in mind Cromwell's charge against Charles I after Cromwell's cavalry at Naseby had captured the King's letters appealing to foreign monarchs to bring forces to suppress the English people. While technically in law Charles I could not be charged with treason, (because loyalty was in law 'loyalty to the monarch, the charge was justified for the situation really called for loyalty to the nation. 
There is a case for an oath which expresses some allegiance or respect to the country, its interests and its independence, and specifically in the case of certain occupations there is the need for the equivalent of the medical profession's hippocratic oath. Members of the medical profession take an oath that relates to their duties as doctors. It might not be a bad thing if teachers made an undertaking along the lines that I have mentioned concerning respect for the child, for the dignity of the child, and undertaking to devote themselves to the well being of the child. Associated with the rights of a teacher, which may need precise definition, a professional code of ethics governing teachers' relationships with their students might well be spelt out and made specific. It would improve the standing of the profession. It would not be a bad thing to be confronted with the valid principles in a professional code. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise a question. It relates to a book directed at school children aged from 12 to 18 years, the importation of which he has allowed. Will the honourable gentleman inform me whether, before this action, he consulted the Minister for Education and Science or any of the State Ministers for Education? 
I should like to thank the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  for his entirely unsolicited tribute. For the 27 years that I have been in this Parliament there has been a war in Vietnam. When I first came into this Parliament in 1945 the United States policy was to prevent France from reasserting its authority over its former colony of Indo-China. The French Government wished to return to Indo-China. The United States, in an anti-colonial phase of policy, prevented this return. The result was that the Japanese surrendered to Ho Chi Minh. Ho Chi Minh received Japan's arms and started his campaign for sovereignty over Indo-China. United States policy then went through a reversal. The Americans decided that Ho Chi Minh was not an agrarian reformer but a Red, that he was dangerous. Their policy became one of trying to assist the re-establishment of French authority, with certain adjuncts to this policy relating to the restoration of the former Emperor of Indo-China, Bao Die. France then began a 10-year struggle to reassert its authority in a military quagmire. All through that period of struggle it was the policy of the Australian Government in general, and  Sir Robert  Menzies in particular, to classify all those opposing the restoration of French authority as Reds. This included, of course, most of the members of Diem's Cabinet. Diem would have been, in the terminology of the first 10 years that I was a member of this Parliament, one of the Reds. 
Of course, American policy was facing the tremendous complication of intervening in Asia from outside. They were faced with this dilemma: If they did not help France to reassert its authority, they probably would be conniving at the conquest of the whole area by the communists, and if they did assist the French to reassert their authority they would alienate all the nationalist forces in Vietnam. They never have solved that dilemma. It led ultimately, of course, to the partition of Vietnam. I agree that partitions can become real in the sense of forming a quasi nationhood. I cannot see how one confidently can dismiss this as not being a civil war however. Equally I cannot see how one can say confidently that it has no characteristics of an international war. Obviously there are the characteristics of both a civil war and an international conflict in Ulster. If there were war between the 2 parts of Germany obviously there would be international overtones. Let us drop the propaganda and recognise that in trying to discuss this as an international war or a civil war both sides are in difficulties with respect to classifica- tion. This began the problems of the United States, when the United States policy was to assist France. 
For 10 years the French tried to reassert their authority, but they never succeeded in doing so. French authority ended with Dien Bien Phu and the partition. Diem was then installed in power as a result of the United States policy. As far as I can see, Diem was a faithful ally. I have always taken the view that in Europe the United States was more enlightened than Britain. The United States draws its population from all European countries. If honourable members cast their minds back to 1919 it is clear that when  President  Wilson was trying to restore nations like Poland, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia, Lloyd George had no idea of what he was talking about. The whole weight of Lloyd George's policy was towards a European settlement that made inevitable the rise of Hitler. When the United States had the whip hand in Europe after the Second World War the Marshall Plan of 1945 was far more enlightened than was British policy between 1919 and 1921. 
When it comes to Asia, the United Kingdom has forgotten more than the United States ever learnt. The British would never have overthrown a faithful ally like Diem. They would never, for instance, have ruled India for 200 years if every maharajah who loyally supported them had been overthrown by them. The United States, in a quite massive convulsion of policy, turned on Diem. They turned the Vietnamese situation from one in which they needed about 300 advisers to one in which they needed 600,000 troops. 
I must admit that I was one of those people who believed  Sir Robert  Menzies when he stood in this House and announced that the United States fleet had been attacked in the Gulf of Tonkin- that the destroyers 'Maddox' and "Turner Joy' had been attacked by North Vietnamese forces. We now know that prior to this the United States fleet was bombarding North Vietnam. They were not at war with North Vietnam at that stage and it would have been lunatic madness for the pathetic motor boats owned by North Vietnam to have attacked United States naval units. On that mad night of the alleged attack the sonar operators on tha 'Maddox* and the Turner Joy5 were national servicemen with no experience. These operators were listening to echoes underneath their own ships and every time their ships turned their rudders to change course the rudders came near their own propellors and these men identified the charged echo they heard as torpedoes coming at their ships. The ships radioed to the Pentagon that they were being attacked. 
From the subsequent Senate proceedings we now know that one ship picked up the other on its radar screen and identified it as an enemy. All rockets and guns were trained, the order was given to fire but the officer of the watch, having an inhibiting button, stopped the fire and required the target to be illuminated with star shell. When it was illuminated it was seen that it was their consort. Had they fired, of course, both would have been radioing the Pentagon that they were under attack, no doubt from North Vietnamese forces. On the basis of the accusation that they had been attacked the United States started the bombing of North Vietnam. One does not have to agree or disagree with the communists. What we now know to have been a quite false charge was made and suddenly Hanoi and other cities and places in the north were bombed heavily by the United States on what, from the northern communist government point of view, would have been a completely unfounded charge that it had attacked the United States fleet. If a fleet of a couple of motor boats were prepared to take on the greatest fleet in the world, they must have had a particularly unbalanced tactical outlook. 
Everything that has been said by every Minister this afternoon is actually an argument for the return ot Australian forces to Vietnam, and the return of such forces in great numbers. If it is true that because of events in Vietnam our country is in danger - that is what the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  said - our withdrawal from that area and the Government's failure to have anything more than a token force there becomes something that the Government is obliged to explain. If the normal explanation which sometimes is given by the Government's ally, the Democratic Labor Party, which is that it was necessary for Australia to have token forces in Vietnam in order to encourage the United States to be there with significant forces, then such a motive is contemptible. That would be an exploitatoin of the blood of the United States. If, in fact, the Government believes that the safety and future of Australia is being determined in Vietnam, there is no ground for the withdrawal of troops that has taken place and there is every ground for their return to Vietnam in increased numbers. But this is not said. 
The honourable member for La Trobe, who has just spoken, asked me to explain certain things. I think it is up to the Government to explain why, if it really believes that the situation in Vietnam is not one which justifies the withdrawl of troops, the troops have been withdrawn. Early this year we were informed that the situation was such that the troops could now be withdrawn because Vietnamisation had taken place. Vietnamisation meant that the people of South Vietnam would be able to defend themselves. I do not know whether they can. Certainly the offensives that are now taking place seem to be somewhat of the same scale as the Tet offensive with the difference that attempting to counter the offensives now there are no longer large numbers of United States troops which confronted the Tet blow, no longer Korean troops and no longer Australian troops. A campaign which appears to be about the magnitude of the Tet offensive is taking place without the forces to resist it that were there to resist (lie Tet offensive. This was not said when the forces were being withdrawn. You can explain the Government's policy if you use a different key altogether from the military situation. You can explain the Government's policy of a token involvement in Vietnam when it was a political asset with the electorate of this country to be involved there, and the withdraw! of our troops at a time when it ceased to be a political asset to be involved there. I believe that the whole of the Vietnam policy and every item of the speeches this afternoon have been designed to extract political advantage from participation in the war and from reference to the war. That, I believe, is the primary concern of the Government. 
I want to go back over some of the points. The only great power whose troops have actually been involved in Vietnam is the United States of America. For a long time we were told that China was involved. Everybody on this side of the House will remember publications of the Department of External Affairs, as it then was, which suggested that Chinese troops were actually involved. One afternoon in this House the late Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Harold Holt, suddenly admitted that the Chinese were not involved. China, of course, has provided comparatively insignificant weapons. As one distinguished Australian soldier put it, China has provided the ginger beer and Russia has provided the champagne. The sophisticated weapons have all come from the Soviet Union. The United States of America made a wrong diagnosis about Vietnam. I will not go into the minor diagnoses - its anti-colonialism against the French, its mistake in supporting the French and its action in overthrowing Diem. I leave those aside - but the basic United States diagnosis about Vietnam was that it was an area of confrontation with the major Communist powers. The United States of America now knows that the Soviet Union has not the slightest reason for regret at United States involvement in Vietnam. The Soviet Union fights the US by giving the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong weapons. It fights the US by proxy while maintaining a diplomatically correct attitude somewhere else. 
Equally, China has not the slightest reason to regret United States involvement in Vietnam, and the whole of American policy now is directed to getting out of Vietnam with honour and then deploying her strength in the areas of confrontation that do matter, and the areas of confrontation that do matter are the Middle East and Eastern Europe. The whole of the rather strange policy which the US has pursued towards India - a rather clumsy policy, I believe, because it did not have to treat India almost as an enemy - has been to conciliate Pakistan because of the significance of the Pakistan alliance to the US in the Middle East. What has been taking place in the Indian sub-continent is another of the signs of the reorientation of US policy. 
The USA has forfeited t'-e goodwill of most of the Islamic cowers with her Israeli policy. Her one Islamic card is Pakistan. That is why v/e are getting this change of policy. As for her attitude towards China, President Nixon has followed the rather amazing policy of discussing with China India's possession of Kashmir - an extremely dangerous policy because if it led to anything, it could bring China over the Himalayas into Kashmir. The reason for this is that the US is trying to exploit the divisions between the Soviet Union and China. America has come very belatedly to a policy which it derided when General de Gaulle first stated it. General de Gaulle believed that a 'union des patries', a united Europe, would be possible because the Soviet Union was distracted on her eastern border by China. To support China in that distraction has become America's policy. So all the commentaries over recent years about Chinese involvement in Vietnam and about America really opposing China in Vietnam, not a minor communist power, like so many other things in American policy, will be disposed of in a 180 degrees turn in foreign policy. So, we had better not be too dogmatic about the future. 
The Government has withdrawn from Vietnam. Partisan statements about which side you favour in the war mean very little. There is no longer an Australian military commitment in Vietnam. The truth is that militarily we are doing nothing to support South Vietnam, and the withdrawal of the forces is facilitating the North's attack The Government did not believe that the North could attack. It believed that the North had been finished, but that was another mistake. Why not face it? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I ask a question of the Minister for Education and Science relating to the Auchmuty report of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on the Teaching of Asian Languages and Cultures in Australia in secondary and tertiary education which I think was presented to the Government when he was originally Minister in charge of this portfolio. I ask the honourable gentleman: What action has been taken to implement the findings of that Committee? 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2.), omit 'as the Minister thinks fit', insert 'as the Council with the approval of the Minister thinks fit'. 
In sub-clause (3.), omit 'as the Minister determines', insert 'as the Council with the approval of the Minister determines'. 
In other words, we believe that the Council- 
 Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clause (2.). 
We believe that it would be sufficient if this clause read as does sub-clause (1.) of clause 33 which states: 
Subject to this Part, the Council may appoint such officers of the Institute as it thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act. 
We believe that the officers would use their common sense in relation to health. We believe that the requirements in relation to  a British subject are out of date and that some of these old Public Service requirements which we go through automatically in every Bill should be omitted. 
I move: 
In clause 29, omit 'Minister' (twice occurring), insert 'Council'. 
In clause 30, omit 'Minister' (wherever occurring), insert 'Council'. 
The purport of our amendments to clauses 29 and 30 is to substitute a decision of the Council for that of the Minister. Clause 29, if amended, would read:  (1.) The Director shall not engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office except with the approval of the Council. 
The amendments have the effect of giving authority to the Council. 
 1 move: 
After 'Governor-General' insert 'on the recommendation of the Council'. 
The clause would then read: 
There shall be a Director of the Institute, who shall be appointed by the Governor-General on the recommendation of the Council. 
We believe that the Directorship- 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Education and Science. Has the honourable gentleman analysed or caused to be analysed the contentions of Professor Goldman that new expenditure on education under the Government's plans will be $33m-odd a year for State schools and $41m a year for private schools? 1 also ask the honourable gentleman whether, under the envisaged plan of matching grants by the States, the States would on the one hand receive SI 67m over the 5 years and be obliged to offset that to the extent of more than $90m in matching grants? 
I move: 
Omit the clause, insert the following clause: 
(1.) The council shall consist of a  Chairman  and at least seven other members. (2.) The  Chairman  shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral from a panel submitted by the Australian Academy of Science. (3.) Two members shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral from a panel submitted by the Australian Marine Science Association. (4.) Two members shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral from a panel submitted by the Great Barrier Reef Committee. (5.) One member shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral from a panel submitted by the Geological Society of Australia. (6.) One member shall be a  Senator elected  by the Senate. (7.) One member shall be a Member of the House of Representatives elected by that House. (8.) Such other members as is deemed necessary from time to time, may be appointed by the GovernorGeneral, but so that of every three members of the Council two shall be persons possessing scientific qualifications. (9.) A member of the Council elected by either House of the Parliament holds office, subject to this Act, for such period, not exceeding five years as is fixed by that House at the time of his election. (10.) Subject to this Act each member appointed by the Governor-General holds office for such period, not exceeding five years, as is specified in the instrument of his appointment and on such terms and conditions as the GovernorGeneral determines, but is eligible for reappointment. (11.) An act or decision of the Council is not invalid by reason only of a vacancy or vacancies in the membership of the Council.'. 
The Opposition proposes that the Council should consist of a  chairman  and at least 7 members instead of 4. The  chairman  should be appointed by the GovernorGeneral from a panel submitted by the Australian Academy of Science. The Opposition believes that it will be valuable if the whole field of related sciences is involved in the governing of this Institute; that there should be 2 members to be appointed by the Governor-General from a panel submitted by the Australian Marine Science Association; that there should be 2 members appointed by the GovernorGeneral from a panel submitted by the Great Barrier Reef Committee; that there should be a member appointed by the GovernorGeneral from a panel submitted by the Geological Society of Australia; that there should be a senator elected by the Senate and a member of the House of Representatives elected by that House; and that there should be such other members as is deemed necessary from time to time appointed by the Governor-General, but of every 3 members of the Council 2 should be persons possessing scientific qualifications. The Opposition believes that a member of the Council elected by either House of the Parliament should hold office, subject to this Act, for such period not exceeding 5 years as is fixed by that House at the time of his election; and that subject to this Act, each member appointed by the Governor-General should hold office for such period, not exceeding 5 years, as is specified in the instrument of his appointment and on such terms and conditions as the Governor-General determines, but would be eligible for re-appointment. The Opposition believes that an act or decision of the Council - this is taken from the existing clause - should not be invalid by reason only of a vacancy or vacancies in the membership of the Council. 
We want this Council to be one which befits the institute of excellence that was envisaged by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  Our proposed Council would comprise members with high qualifications and breadth of vision which we believe would help it to be an institute of excellence. 
Clause 24(2.) states: 
The Director shall be paid such allowances, other than annual allowances, as are prescribed. 
We believe that the Council should have that authority. Accordingly I move: 
In sub-clause (2.), after 'prescribed', insert 'by Council'. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 25 agreed to. 
Clauses 26 to 28  -  by leave - taken together. 
Clause 26. 
The Director may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Governor-General, but the resignation does not have effect until it is accepted by the Governor-General. 
Clause 27. 
The Governor-General may retire the Director on the ground of invalidity. 
Clause 28. 
If the Director- 
becomes bankrupt, applies to take the benefit of any law for the relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors, compounds with his creditors or makes an assignment of his remuneration for their 'benefit; 
is guilty of misbehaviour;, or 
is absent from duty, except on leave granted by the Council, for fourteen consecutive days or for twenty-eight days in any twelve months, the Governor-General shall remove him from office. 

 Mr BEAZLEY (Fremantle) (12.37 a.mO - I move: 
In clause 26, omit 'Governor-General' (twice occurring), insert 'Council'. 
In clause 27, omit 'Governor-General', insert Council'. 
In clause 28, omit 'Governor-General', insert Council'. 
Our amendment to clause 26 would provide that the Director may resign his office by writing under his hand delivered to the Council instead of the GovernorGeneral. The resignation would not have effect until it was accepted by the Council. Clause 27 would read: 
The Council may retire the Director on the ground of invalidity. 
We believe that, consonant with our general approach to the powers and rights of the Council and the autonomy of the Institute, these powers should be given to the Council. 
Clause 34 begins promisingly by saying that officers are not subject to the Public Service Act but hold office on such terms and conditions as are determined by the Council. Unfortunately incorporated in that clause are the words 'subject to the approval of the Public Service Board*. The same applies to clause 35. Again in the interest of autonomy of the Council I move: 
In clause 34, omit ', subject to the approval of the Public Service Board,'. 
In clause 35, sub-clause (4.) omit ', subject to the approval of the Public Service Board,'. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 36 to 44  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 45.  (1.) The Minister may, at the request of the Council, appoint a Committee to assist the Council in relation to a matter specified in the request. (2.) A Committee appointed under this section shall consist of such persons, whether members of the Council or not, as the Minister thinks fit. (3.) A member of a Committee shall be paid such fees and allowances, other than annual allowances, as are prescribed, and shall hold office on such terms and conditions as the Minister determines. (4.) A Committee shall make such enquiries, and furnish to the Council such reports, in connexion with the matter in relation to which it has been appointed as the Council directs. 
-! move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: while welcoming the proposal to establish the Australian Institute of Marine Science, the House views with deep concern the possibility that the work of the Institute may be hindered by the pollution of the sea water by the establishment of a nickel refinery near Townsville and is of the opinion that the successful operation of the Institute demands the immediate passage also of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill in order to secure to the Commonwealth the powers necessary to deal with pollution and like problems which may arise'. 
Until recent months the Government gloried in not having advisory councils to give direction and purpose to its scientific research. Then a body came into being which might give some direction to marine science research and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made a statement about an advisory committee in the sciences. The situation in the marine sciences has been similar to the situation regarding science as a whole; that is, no independent policy advisory committee existed in the area. As the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated in a speech to the Academy of Science in 1960 in which he made a philosophy of this purposelessness: 
We may then be wisest to continue our pragmatic evolutionary approach seeking advice from different people as different projects arise. In '.his way we can establish a network of informed ad hoc relationships. 
This viewpoint may be the explanation of the Government's long disinclination to establish far-ranging policy advisory machinery in the marine sciences. Australia's interest in marine science is obvious. Over 60 per cent of Australia's population live within 100 miles of the sea. Because of this all Australians are aware of the ocean and the recreational aspects of the ocean are a popular part of our culture. As an island we are completely dependent upon shipping to support our international trade. Our continental shelf has an area of over 800,000 square miles and is the fourth largest in the world, after that of the United States of America, the Soviet Union and Canada. It contains the largest and scientifically most interesting reef structure in the world. The discovery of off-shore oil and natural gas, first in Bass Strait and more recently on the north west shelf have greatly altered our energy situation. 
As Noakes of the Bureau of Mineral Resources has pointed out, exploration for minerals other than petroleum on our continental shelves has already been significant and discoveries of tin, phosphorite, mineral sands and manganese nodules have already been made. However, to quote Noakes. 'It is therefore important that we recognise that although technology has enabled us to begin a new era of investigation and development of mineral resources off-shore, these resources, apart from those associated with the consolidated rocks of the shelf and slope, occur in environments of which 've have little real knowledge. With the exception of construction material, other resources off-shore are not likely to be discovered or developed as readily as was petroleum; indeed, success in the future in all fields off-shore is likely to depend on how effectively we tackle the tasks of investigating new environments and improving technology to cope with the problems of exploitation. 
For many years it has been apparent that the marine sciences in Australia are fragmented and poorly financed. This is nowhere more apparent than in the constant struggle for marine scientists to obtain ship time and in their pleas for an oceanographic vessel for Australia. Until recently the picture was one of increasing interest in industry, principally in the field of petroleum, and increasing academic interest - examples of which are the formation of the Australian Marine Sciences Association in 1963 and the establishment of the Horace Lamb Centre for Oceanographical Research at Flinders University in 1965 - with declining official interest going on at the same time. From the early 1960s to 1967 the budget of the Division of Fisheries and Oceanography of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation declined as a part of the CSIRO budget. In the Navy the effort given to the hydrographic service also declined. Peter Robinson' in the 'Australian Financial Review', quoting a paper from the Royal Australian Navy hydrographic service, said that it was planned for the Navy to continue hydrographic surveys after the War, with 3 surveying ships and 3 tenders. Robinson stated: 
The planned level of 6 ships assigned to surveying duties has not been achieved since. For 2 years, indeed, no ocean surveying at all was carried out. In 1952, a more modest programme was reinstitated with one or two vessels working at a time ... in 1960 the Royal Australian Navy assigned 2 modified river class frigates, HMAS "Diamantina' and HMAS 'Gascoyne' to oceanographic work. The idea was that they would spend part of their sea time on naval assignments and the remainder carrying scientific teams from the CSIRO and other interested organisations - but mainly the CSIRO. For 6 years these 2 ships provided the facilities for the only really sustained period of pure oceanographic research in Australian history. 
The Interim Council of the Australian Institute of Marine Sciences itself quotes a statement by the United States National Council on Marine Resources and Engineering Development, which was published in 1968. This statement is the declaration of the achievements of the Government in this field at this time. The American survey of the National Council on Marine Resources said this about Australia: 
It has been estimated that no more than 2 per cent of the total Australian research and development budget is spent on the marine sciences. In relation to overall scientific activity in the country and the benefits which might accrue from marine exploitation, this percentage is very low. 
It is interesting to note that this report, prepared in the United States, was up until the publication of the Interim Council's own report the most comprehensive statement of marine science activities in Australia available, and it is a work carried out in the United States while the Government allowed marine sciences in Australia to die. 
Captain A. H. Cooper of the Royal Australian Navy was reported as stating in 1965 in relation to marine sciences: 
In Australia many agencies are making observations for their own projects, but the investigations are of a fragmentary nature. For the nation's future well being there must be a well founded Government policy and a concerted programme of observation and research. He made a proposal for the formation of a national committee to plan and co-ordinate oceanography in Australia. Commonwealth Department!! should have the means of co-ordinating their oceanographic activities and of obtaining the advice and assistance of the Universities and other nongovernmental agencies. 
But the Minister was committed to the view that we should continue on our pragmatic, evolutionary approach, seeking advice from different people as different projects arise. In this way we establish a network of informal and ad hoc relationships. It does not sound like an effort of science; it sounds like an old boy network. The functions that Captain Cooper was recommending in 1965 would appear to be similar to the functions suggested by the Interim Council for the proposed Australian Marine Science Council. By 1967 increased activities by universities and by the CSIRO began to put considerable pressure on ship time. Australia, of course, had no research ship. The Government responded by establishing a committee to allocate the available ship time. As Hawkins stated: 
As a stirring in the hoped for awakening of the Government to this national responsibility, a Technical Committee on Oceanography, with representatives from Government Departments and Universities, has been constituted. This Committee which grew out of an interdepartmental national advisory committee on oceanography which SM has not been formally constituted acts in an advisory capacity to the Navy in the allocation of the very limited ship time available - although CSIRO still received preferential treatment. 
Hawkins also stated in the same paper: 
Government research in oceanography has been extremely limited. ... In view of the very meagre national effort in oceanography, the Universities of Australia have a particularly important part to play in this area of research. This is not to say that University research has not a very important role in a properly conducted national programme in oceanography, but that it has an even greater significance in the absence of such a programme. Further the lack of a fully equipped research vessel and the grossly inadequate time available on poorly equipped Navy ships is a very severe impediment to both University and Government research. 
In regard to his own research programme he stated: 
With regard to the problems which face us in conducting such programmes, these are of 2 kinds: First, the lack in this country of a fully equipped research vessel or even sufficient time application on a relatively unequipped Navy ship such as HMAS 'Diamantina', and secondly, the need to obtain sufficient financial support to obtain the necessary equipment and carry out the survey. 
The Australian Marine Sciences Association established in 1967 a sub-committee to report on developments in marine science in Australia. It commented on the changing situation regarding ship time with the withdrawal of one of the Navy frigates from service and stated: 
Under this system the amount of ship's time available is likely to be even more fragmentary then before, and the number of positions aboard few. 
In 1967 Peter Robinson of the 'Australian Financial Review' wrote 2 articles on oceanography in Australia, one of which I have already mentioned. A selection from another article of his will set out the frustration experienced by scientists. He said: 
There are stirrings of both ambition and bitterness among Australians engaged in oceanographic fields of research - hope that the growing commercial interests in off-shore resources may stir Government aid to oceanographic research, coupled with bitterness at the almost total lack of facilities for advanced research in the field. 
Like space research, in fact, oceanography is intrinsically a modern organisational or operational concept rather than a traditionally independent and clearly defined scientific discipline, This may explain the remarkable neglect which oceanography has so far had in Australia, a country which has more to gain from an intensive exploration of its surrounding waters than most, but which is also notably averse to the co-ordination and long range planning of many inter-related projects. 
This is the ad hoc relationship approach that the Minister felt was our chief glory when he spoke to the Australian Academy of Science. The article continued: 
The present state of oceanography in this country is in fact very typical in its fragmented improvisation, its underfinanced scattering of remarkably talented, dedicated scientists and its dependence on the willingness of other nations to give poverty stricken Australians a helping hand with such expensve equipment as ships and computers. 
Last year the Australian Marine Sciences Association held a round table discussion on the sea going needs of Australian marine scientists, ships and shore support, and proposals for implementation and representations to the Commonwealth Government. It passed a resolution that 'the Australian Marine Sciences Association strongly deplores the lack of facilities available for all workers in every aspect of oceanography, and strongly urged that representations be made to the Government to take steps to rectify the situation'. Outlining the current situation in Australia, the Interim Council of the Australian Institute of Marine Science said: 
Although the aggregate effort in marine science is small by comparison with that of many other countries and unrealistic in relation to Australia's needs, its effectiveness is further handicapped by excessive fragmentation. Marine science is essentially inter-disciplinary, requiring sizeable research teams at any single institution - a point repeatedly stressed by overseas marine scientists whom we have consulted. As noted above, much of the present Australian research, especially in universities, is conducted in comparative isolation and often with inadequate facilities. Only in limited fields have real attempts been made to overcome this isolation and to promote co-operation and joint effort. 
The above quotations and statements illustrate the state marine scientists in Australia had reached before the decision by the Government to establish the Townsville Institute. In the light of the report of the Interim Council, it is clear that the Government's action was inappropriate, as there was a lack of investigation at least at the public level prior to the decision to establish the Institute. The choice of the site was inappropriate to the concept of establishing a 'centre of excellence', to use the words of the right honourable member for Higgins, in the marine sciences. The amount of money originally suggested as the cost of establishing the Institute was inadequate to fulfil the stated aims. The decision was taken without considering the appropriate institutional linkages with other marine science organisations both within the governmental structure and outside. 
The Interim Council, which had terms of reference merely to investigate the needs of the Institute, reported on a number of border issues in order to get some sort of adequacy in what it was saying. Firstly, the Townsville site was useful for only limited purposes and not for the broad range of purposes as suggested by the Government. Secondly, the Council pointed out that there is a need for further institutions to conduct research for which the Townsville site is inappropriate. Thirdly, for the limited number of activities envisaged for the Townsville Institute more money is required than was first suggested by the Government. Indeed, to fulfil a complete range of research in marine sciences a much greater amount of money is needed than that shown in the body of the report. Fifthly, the establishment of a nickel refinery in Townsville may conflict with the functioning of the Institute. Sixthly, there is a need for broad policy machinery to co-ordinate and plan marine science in Australia. Seventhly, the key lack in Australia is ship time for marine research. 
This summary does not, of course, represent the bulk of the recommendations from the Interim Council's report, but deals mainly with the broad considerations regarding overall policy, and in particular those aspects which are not dealt with by the Bill currently before the House. In the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill of 1972 the Government has implemented those recommendations from the Interim Council regarding the establishment of the Institute. It does not implement the broader considerations regarding the development of marine science. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has accepted that marine science has been rather neglected in the past in the sense that the efforts of isolated groups, through praiseworthy in themselves, have scarcely been commensurate with the magnitude of the problems which await investigation'. That is an acknowledgement that ad hoc relations were not adequate. In respect of the broader issues, the Minister has mentioned that 2 of them are far reaching and important and are being examined in depth by the Government from within its own resources. That is a rather meaningless statement which holds out no immediate prospect of the development of marine science which the country needs. 
As regards ship time, the key logistical problem of marine science in Australia, the Minister stated: 
The question of acquiring a vessel of about 120 feet is one which is being examined by the Government in the context of rather similar requirements by the Division of Fisheries and Oceanography of the CSIRO. 
He said this despite the fact that the Interim Council reported: 
We stress most strongly therefore that the provision of proper sea going facilities, expensive though they might be, is vital to the success of the Institute at Townsville. 
In other words, Townsville was considered in conjunction with a ship. So far the ship is not forthcoming. The Council further reported: 
Indeed we would go so far as to say that if there was any danger that money for these facilities 
The ship - could not be found, it would be unwise to proceed with the establishment of the kind of institute we propose. 
According to the latest data, the Council has stated: 
We consider it desirable that CSIRO should have a vessel for use in its own research programmes. 
The Government's action in introducing this Bill and accepting the portion of the Interim Council's report that it has accepted will solve one problem only, that of establishing an Institute of Marine Science to study tropical marine science at Townsville. The basic problems of marine science in Australia, as revealed in the Interim Council's report, remain, and marine science in Australia cannot develop adequately until they are solved. The following sections of this paper discuss the direction indicated for Australia by the Interim Council. The report reveals that there is a fundamental incompatibility in having a 'centre of excellence' at a site in Townsville with a small budget. It states: 
We fear that in seeking to arrange excellence in the smaller institute proposed for Townsville, we might fail to achieve excellence in any one branch of marine science. We further recognise that the geographical situation of Townsville and its distance from the larger population centres impose some limitations upon its suitability as the major Australian Institute in such fields as physical oceanography and marine and coastal engineering. We should prefer to see additional funds  for  these branches of marine science devoted to the development of existing or new research centres elsewhere in Australia. 
Consequently the Interim Council concludes that rather than being a wide ranging centre of excellence 'the research programme of the Townsville Institute should be concentrated in those regions and in those branches of marine science for which Townsville forms a natural geographical centre'. The report draws out the limitations of the site. For instance, adequate berthing facilities and storage space are unavailable at Cape Pallarenda. Townsville is unsuitable as a major centre for all fields of research in marine science. Townsville, so the report goes on, may be an unsuitable site for a governing body of the Institute with a policy making function. This function has not been adopted in the legislation. 
Nickel sulphur is highly dangerous to fish and other marine life, and the development of a nickel smelter near the Institute could introduce significant pollution. The report suggests that every effort should therefore be made, supported by appropriate legislation, to ensure that all forms of pollution from areas in the vicinity of Cape Pallarenda are kept to levels below those which are toxic to any forms of marine life. The Council speaks about appropriate legislation. Unless the Commonwealth assumes its powers over the territorial sea, I do not know whether it will have any power to legislate to protect the Institute against these toxic effects, if these toxic effects are in fact present in the nickel refinery. 
In many research fields the report indicates the unsuitability of Townsville. I am not saying this as a criticism of putting the centre at Townsville. I am saying it as a criticism of the idea that all our eggs should be in this one basket for so long. With regard to underwater research and technology, the report states that it would obviously be quite impractical for the Townsville Institute, with its limited resources, to compete in this field. With regard to physical oceanography, the report states: 
The implementation of a full programme of research and physical oceanography would be much beyond the limits of financial resources envisaged for the Townsville Institute. 
With regard to marine and coastal engineering, the report states: 
The Institute at Townsville will not command the facilities, nor will it be well situated geographically, to serve as an Australian centre for marine and coastal engineering. 
With regard to research on living resources, the report states: 
These important areas of research could not be catered for by the Institute at Townsville. 
The report states: 
The principal aim of the Government was to establish a research centre physically located in the vicinity of Townsviile. 
However, this choice has introduced severe limitations into the type of research that the Institute can carry out. As a consequence, the report suggests the need for new institutes elsewhere to fill these gaps. The report stated that research on beaches, estuaries and coastal waters could be:  the primary responsibility of a new institute to be established at a more suitable locality. 
In regard to physical oceanography, the report states: 
Because of ship requirements it would appear to be preferable to establish such a centre in the south and eastern parts of the continent, either by expansion of an existing institution or by the development of a new institute suitably located in relation to major universities and of interested research organisations. As a centre for marine and coastal engineering should be established where strong scientific and engineering facilities are available and where the problems, especially of the preservation and pollution control are most acute, a site in close proximity to one of the State capitals on the temperate coastline of Australia would be suitable. 
The fact that the Interim Council's thinking was dominated by the question of shiptime has been adverted to previously. It is an aspect which comes up many times in the report. The members stated: 
We are concerned that Australian experience in the past has been that vessel facilities have almost always been inadequate for the research needs; this applies to Australia's major marine research institution, the CSIRO Division of Fisheries and Oceanography. 
The report continues: 
The difficult factor limiting the development of oceanography is the shortage of shiptime. The Navy, has not been able to make sufficient shiptime available to meet the needs of other bodies. This limitation has had serious impact on the oceanographic work of CSIRO and especially on that of the universities. There can be no doubt that the situation in Australia compares most unfavourably with that in some other countries. While at best, the interested Australian group have had to share the part hiring time of use of one or two vessels, most of the major institutions overseas have at least one ocean-going vessel upward of 120 feet for their exclusive use, as well as several smaller craft. Many have several large ships. A progressive increase in the number of ocean-going ships is desirable. 
Whereas the United States National Science Foundation devotes 41 per cent of its expenditure on marine sciences to ships in support operations, there are no similar sums for the Australian Research GrantCommittee. 
I have referred to limitations on Australian marine science caused by the present lack of finance. The Interim Council, in its report, adverts to many large gaps in marine science research in Australia which will require additional financing in the future, as well as the obvious need to support existing research. These gaps were referred to when the need for additional institutes was adverted to and are detailed in section 3 of the report of the Interim Council. These gaps were revealed in the survey conducted by Professor B. R. Morton, Professor of Applied Mathematics, Monash University, in his paper to the symposium on marine sciences conducted by the Australian Academy of Science. 
This Bill is welcome as a beginning. We fear that the Institute cannot be, without all these other developments, the great centre of excellence that the former Prime Minister envisaged. It is a welcome first step. It would be good to hear from the Government a complete programme of development. It was welcome to hear from the Minister of the construction of a ship which no doubt will eliminate some of these criticisms on ship time, when it is in existence. But it is alarming that, although every commentator on this subject regards Australia as having so much to gain from the development of marine sciences, Australia is far behind in work in this field and needs much more than simply this very welcome Institute which, rather doubtfully, the report of the Interim Council assigns to the city of Townsville where, at any rate, it is adapted to certain aspects of tropical research. 
I think it is a tragedy that the terminology of the original Bill - 'The National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health' - was altered and those words eliminated; also that the time available to issue a warning was reduced. Although the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  tried to suggest that making the minimum time 3 seconds for stating the warning was not significant, making the minimum time 5 seconds was obviously insisting on a longer time, ft would be extremely difficult for the words contained in the warning to be delivered within 3 seconds. They will be meaningless if they are delivered in that time. I cannot understand why this provision was accepted. The Government began with a gesture which was to warn young people about the dangers to health of cigarette smoking. There has been no explanation why the provisions of the Bill have been watered down during the course of debate. All that we have seen has been the use of numbers, the use of the gag and the use of back bench members so that Ministers did not have to commit themselves. From this it will be seen that there is not really a sincere attempt to warn youth on the effects of tobacco use. 
The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  who has just spoken in this debate made the point that the world was divided between the communist powers and the democracies. The world's largest democracy is India and India's relationship may as a minimum be described as an 'entente cor.diale' with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. These are certain neighbours, with one of which we are allied. Pakistan with which we are allied through the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. Pakistan is neither a democracy nor a communist power. We have close relationships with Indonesia, which is neither a democracy nor a communist power. If one surveys right around the world, from Brazil in Latin America and to many Asian countries, the honourable member's simple division of the world into democracies and communist powers will be seen not to be valid. 
There are  8  new factors which have developed over the last year. The first is India's abandonment of non-alignment in favour of an accord with the Soviet Union. This involves Indian doubt of the prospects of an accord with China and Indian fear of China, and also Indian criticism of the United States made because of the United States detente towards China. The second new factor is the partition of Pakistan and the emergence of Bangladesh. The third factor is a consequence of the American detente towards China - a new emphasis by the United States on the value of Pakistan as an ally and a chill in Indian-United States relationships. The fourth new factor to develop is the United States detente itself towards China. The basis of this detente is that the Soviet Union could destroy China and could destroy the United States. Equally, the United States could destroy the Soviet Union. The foreign policy of a nation tends to be an insurance against the power which can destroy that nation. Hence the emergence of a common interest in the United States and China, despite idealogical differences. 
I would like to say to the honourable member for Henty that I think the assessment by his friend that the dispute between China and the Soviet Union is a dispute as to who is to be 'the boss' of the communist world is a very serious error in analysis. China fears the Soviet Union because the Soviet Union could destroy China. What is operating in Chinese foreign policy in this respect is not an ideological consideration but a national consideration. Equally, the Soviet Union suspected that Chinese policy over Cuba in  1962  was an attempt to involve the Soviet Union in a war with the United States in which they would both destroy one another, leaving China as the gainer. The analysis of the dispute between the Soviet Union and China is not as trivial as the honourable member's friend says. I think it is an inadequate analysis. 
Another new factor is involved. I refer to China's growing significance as a distraction to the Soviet Union, forcing a Soviet military concentration on the eastern border of the Soviet Union. This is significant in allowing the emergence of, perhaps, a united states of Europe. Eastern border clashes between Soviet and Chinese troops have been serious. Chinese claims that have been put forward for an abrogation of the unequal treaties imposed by the Czars seriously worry the Soviet Union. Another new factor is the defeat of China's strategy to disintegrate India. The main instrument in China's strategy to disintegrate India was our SEATO ally, Pakistan. A less obvious factor is the Soviet fear of a Chinese strategy to disintegrate the Soviet Union. Many of the people in the Soviet Union - Ukrainians, Georgians and so forth - in essence are colonial people and ideological comments from China aimed at those people are interpreted by the Soviet Union as an attempt to disintegrate the Soviet Union. 
The eighth new factor, of course, is the resumption of the invasion of South Vietnam by North Vietnam and, as a consequence, the bombing and mining by the United States. American commentators have pointed out that the conditions mentioned by the honourable member, namely, that the United States will withdraw if her prisoners are released and if she can obtain an internationally supervised ceasefire, is an abandonment by the United States, under terms consistent with her honour, of her South Vietnamese ally and that in that situation it would be only a matter of time before South Vietnam was overwhelmed. The most difficult thing to understand in North Vietnamese policy is that they do not seize this chance. That the North Vietnamese do not seize the way out which, in point of fact,  President  Nixon has been offering them seems to argue that North Vietnam has some, long term ideological interest in creating revolutionary situations around the world as a consequence of the Vietnam war. Those American commentators who have pointed out that, in fact,  President  Nixon has abandoned all those positions in Cambodia which a year or so ago were said to be essential are, in my view, correct in their analysis. 
Krishna Prakash Gupta, who is one of the leading thinkers in the field of Indian foreign policy, had this to say about China and the over-simplifications of Chinese policy that are sometimes put forward: 
This brings us back to the enigma of China's basic motives. 
He asked why China, on the one hand, embraced military dictatorships like Pakistan and, on the other hand, spoke in terms of liberty. He asked why there were all these inconsistencies. He continued: 
Substantially similar states can be appreciated or condemned; substantially similar leaders can be applauded or denounced; substantially similar movements can be accepted or repudiated. 
For instance, they repudiated the Bangladesh revolutionary movement. He continued: 
The internal character of these 'objects' is not a crucial variable in Peking's decision to endorse or not to endorse. On a broad canvass, what one sees is all 'tactics' and no firm commitment to any intrinsic socialist goals. It is through these tactics that China's strategy can be easily inferred. 
In other words, most of China's external postures have to do with internal politics. 
Is China unique in that respect? If a communist government carried out a massacre equal to the massacre carried out in Bangladesh by our ally, Pakistan, the Australian Government would have been turning handsprings in vehement denunciation. But we went along fairly quietly. 
You did denounce cruelty in Tibet because it was the action of communists; you do not denounce it if it is not the action of communists. You did not check by representations massacre of Chinese in Indonesia. I am only saying that these attitudes are rather similar to China's. The attitudes that we strike in external policy are in' fact often for internal consumption, precisely in the same way as is the case with China. There is a lot of mileage to be gained by the Government in denouncing communist atrocities; there is no mileage to be gained in denouncing atrocities by others. While I am on this subject, I draw attention to the reports of Peter Hazelhurst of the 'London Times' concerning starvation, cruelty and massacre beginning to develop ' in Bangladesh. Peter Hazelhurst was highly respected in Bangladesh when I was there because of the absolute accuracy of his reports, as a very brave correspondent of the 'London Tiroes', and because of his courage in reporting Pakistan's terrorism in East Bengal. Some leaders of Bangladesh spoke to me about his absolute integrity and courage. Now Peter Hazelhurst speaks out about disastrous events in Mohammedpur and Mirpur, suburbs of Dacca, killing, starvation and break up of families of Biharis who have remained in Bangladesh. 
I would be interested 'to- hear what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has to say about the representations of the Government on this matter. I hope that the Government is using its good offices with the Government of India on this question. The Government of India intervened in the Bangladesh situation because, among other reasons, of the atrocities, .which were being perpetrated in Bangladesh. The Government of India would have enormous influence with the Government in Dacca and, as well as making direct representations itself, I hope that, the Government of Australia will be making representations to the Government of India to use its good offices to allay the terror which - if Hazelhurst's description is correct - is beginning to develop in the suburbs of Mohammedpur and Mirpur in Dacca. 
The Government will apply a single standard if its motivation is humanity. Atrocities are atrocities whether they are perpetrated by communists or noncommunists, and the aim of our foreign policy basically should be to create a sane world. The honourable member for Henty reminded us that we were an ally of the United States during the Second World War. We were also an ally, willy nilly, of the Soviet Union during the Second World War. We did not say: 'Germany is noncommunist and the Soviet Union is communist*. Other considerations operated. In the same way, I think, we do not just make the simple test that some State is communist or non-communist. The United States is not making that test at the present time.  President  Nixon is making approaches to the Soviet Union and to China. I would have thought that the basic aim of a foreign policy was not to make classifications of the world as communist or non-communist, but to create a sane world. What else ought to be the cardinal aim of any foreign policy? In the process of making a sane world, I hope that we can make representations both to Bangladesh directly and through the good offices of the Government of India to end the terror. I trust that the Minister will do that; and that be may make these representations directly when he visits Bangladesh. 
Foreign policy debate, surely, is not primarily electoral propaganda; there are surely some constructive things that we believe ought to happen in the world, and one of the things that ought to happen in the world is the completion of the battle for sanity into the position in the Indian sub-continent. It would be a tragedy if Bangladesh, having been freed because of world reaction, and because of India's reaction in particular, to a campaign of terror, was itself now to become the perpetrator of terror. It is easier for me to say this than it is for the Minister to say it, but that it be said, I am certain, is quite important in the world. 
The United State's foreign policy is changing. The United States, despite what is being said opposite, is seeking disengagement from the Vietnam situation. A basic reason why she is seeking disengagement from the Vietnam situation, apart from the difficulties of interveing on the mainland of Asia and attempting to deprive the enemy of supplies, is that the United States is beginning to realise that much more important areas of the world in terms of her foreign policy are the Middle East and Eastern Europe.  Her  attitude towards Pakistan, and a quite surprising United States general support of Pakistan while Pakistan was pursuing its Bangladesh policy, was governed by the fact that in the Islamic world Pakistan is the United State's best card to play, best ally and clearest field of influence. 
The United States policy towards Israel deprives the United States of the support of Islam almost everywhere. The one US asset in the Islamic world is therefore her relationship with Pakistan. Pakistan has a powerful influence in the Jordanian army. She has powerful influence in the Saudi Arabian army. Saudi Arabia for the US is particularly important in relation to oil and the whole strategy of the Persian Gulf. Similarly is Jordan a key area. I do not believe that the simplicities that the honourable member referred to in his speech will be the basis of the United States foreign policy in the future. The United States is seeking to allay tensions and to disengage from Vietnam and the difficulties that she has on the way will not stop her detente towards Moscow and her detente towards Peking, nor will the United States desist from its irreversible policy of a total disengagement from the situation in Vietnam. 
This is a minor amendment to a major piece of legislation. It simply gives effect to the consequences of a change in an award for a section of the staff of colleges of advanced education, permits  States to  reshuffle some funds between institutions and follows a change in nomenclature in some instances in colleges and governing bodies. As such, the measure is, as it were, inevitable and the Opposition supports it. However, we could wish that some of these changes were of greater significance and that they followed upon research and development to clarify what we are aiming at in colleges of advanced education because we have not yet fully clarified what our aim is. 
There is a need for research into teaching methods generally, into the method of examinations and into ways in which efficient approaches to study can be taught - a study of study itself. The colleges of advanced education would be ideal centres for this sort of research and study. There is also a need for research into remedial teaching. Necessary also is research into the subject of external studies for colleges of advanced education- external studies being, according to the Murray report, a distinctive feature of the Australian scene. There is a need for the development in colleges of advanced education of centres for parttime studies and centres for external studies to make both part-time education and external education more efficient and more just to the students concerned. These centres are needed in almost all tertiary institutes of education; they certainly are needed in universities. 
The colleges of advanced education must not be allowed to develop the shortcomings of universities which themselves now need to be remedied. Universities tend to neglect teaching and often are inflexible and impersonal in their relationships with students. Colleges of advanced education must have a staffing capable of teaching and taking a personal interest in their students. 1 realise that these statements are outside the range of the Bill, which merely makes simple adjustments in salaries and names of colleges and governing bodies; but I wanted to make those points. The Bill is too narrow to pursue these interesting paths; but, such as the Bill is, the Opposition supports it. 
Whether the development of this naval base in the Fremantle area will be a major contribution to Australian defence depends on the nature of the warfare involving the installation. There has been a tendency for the sake of points of political propaganda to speak of Cockburn Sound as a major counter to Soviet naval influence in the Indian Ocean. If one assumes that naval warfare between the United States of America and the Soviet Union takes place, and the world has reached that point of disaster, it is quite possible that the war would be nuclear warfare. We may as well face the fact realistically that in this dire case Cockburn Sound would be a concentrated target, a naval base, the city of Fremantle, an oil refinery, a steel works and all the facilities that will be constructed on Garden Island. In nuclear warfare this naval base may not be the great defence asset claimed. If we are talking in terms of conventional warfare against some lesser powers, we doubtless go back to the historic position. In 1911 Admiral Henderson reported that Cockburn Sound was the natural site for a naval base. In terms of conventional warfare it is a contribution to Australia's defence. However, in the Second World War it was found expedient to have a naval base on the western coast in the Exmouth Gulf area. 
As this project has developed there has been very penetrating criticism of it from the environmentalists. There has also been criticism from various sporting bodies which once had the use of Garden Island. For a long time it appeared as if the whole of Garden Island - not to be confused with Sydney's Garden Island - was to be taken over by the Navy, but the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on his recent visit to Western Australia said that 1,800 acres would be left for recreational facilities. That was a very palatable statement to the people of Western Australia, but I think that certain chillies were put on the palatable plate when the statement was made that the day to day care and management of the area of Garden Island that would be open to the public should be a State responsibility. Since the Commonwealth was making the gesture of allowing a park of about 1,800 acres to remain on Garden Island it would have been an elegant gesture if it had carried the financial responsibility for the development of the park as some return to the Western Australian community for the loss of what was once a very great natural area of pleasure. However, the Western Australian community should appreciate the fact that 1,800 acres are to be left to it and I suppose we may rejoice that the State Government will have a recreation facility even if it must carry the expenses of developing the recreation facility. 
The other point to be welcomed is the statement that the advice of experts on environmental matters will be sought during the development of the project in the future. I am not qualified to comment on all the submissions made by environmental experts about the change in currents and so forth as a consequences of the construction which is going into the development of this naval base. But the fact that the Commonwealth is interested in continuing to consult with environmental experts is something new and welcome. I suppose we must balance the claims of defence - even if one may regard this as not being the best site in Western Australia for a naval base - against the other claims. The Commonwealth has achieved some balance in allowing part of Garden Isla.id to be left for recreational facilities and no doubt will achieve further balance in its consultations with the environmentalists. 
The feature clearly welcomed in Western Australia is the development of defence on the western coast. This need was recognised first in the days of Lord Kitchener and Admiral Henderson, who were brought out by the Fisher Government in 1911 to report on Australia's defence. Henderson reported on the possibilities for a naval base in Cockburn Sound. Actually it had begun to be developed before the First World War. Of course in those days Australia envisaged the development of quite a large fleet. That was in the days when fleets consisted of gun ships and not rocket ships. It was believed in 1911 that by 1920 Australia would have quite a considerable Navy. The Washington Treaty of 1921 left what were then called the dominions with comparatively meagre naval forces. Under the terms of the Washington Treaty the United Kingdom held the preponderance of naval power on behalf of what was then called the Empire. So the Cockburn Sound base was never developed. 
At this point in time  -  61 years later - we pick up again the general ideas if not the specific recommendations of Admiral Henderson in the era of Lord Kitchener and that, I think, is generally welcomed in Western Australia, although there are very distinct reservations in the minds of some people who believe that the naval base should be Exmouth Gulf or at some other point on the coast, and in the minds of some who hold the view that navies should have nuclear propulsion - I am not speaking about weapons - which would render them independent of these inflexible and vulnerable bases. The view is that this is essential in modern warfare because fixed bases will without doubt be vulnerable targets. There was keen criticism from those who think almost exclusively in terms of the environment. Generally speaking, however, the majority public opinion in Western Australia welcomes the development of a defensive position on the west coast of Australia. 
I ask leave to make a personal explanation, claiming to have been misrepresented. 
During the course of question time this afternoon the honourable members for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and Moore  (Mr Maisey)  referred to the closure of the General Motors-Holden's plant in Western Australia. The matter of public importance which I have raised does not apply merely to Western Australia. We have become increasingly concerned about the closure of works and the development of structural unemployment in Australia. Structural unemployment among other things involves the retraining of workers and means the disappearance of certain occupations. It may well be that what is needed if GMH is insistent on the closure in Western Australia is the retraining of many workers who may not be able to be absorbed in the car industry elsewhere. Structural unemployment is up sharply and ordinary stimulants do not seem to help. Job training seems to do more than monetary methods to solve the problems of structural unemployment. What was interesting, however, in the examples given by the honourable members for Perth and Moore this morning, was the lack of a social policy or a social conscience on the part of a firm which owes its existence to social action. One may regard the remedy proposed by the honourable member for Moore - that of exempting Western Australia from the tariff - as rather a drastic one. Nevertheless, it does focus attention correctly on the fact that GMH owes its business in Australia - and an extremely profitable one - to social action. Therefore one does expect to see in return some degree of social conscience. 
I think the point which underlies both the questions of the honourable members for Perth and Moore is one that we would strongly endorse. There does not seem to be on the part of companies that can well afford it any deliberate expansion of activity as a means of stimulating confidence. We are constantly told that the issue really is not that the fundamental economy of Australia is unsound, but that there is a faltering of confidence. There is no doubt that there was a serious faltering of confidence after the false diagnosis made by the Government of the economic position in this country when it brought down a restraining Budget in August last year and has spent a very good deal of its time since in frying to reverse the Budget policy which it proclaimed ex cathedra with a voice of infallibility last August. Events like this in Western Australia have a tendency to escalate unemployment because, apart from adding to a crisis of confidence, it seems to effect some building and manufacturing in other areas. The magazine Progress' of last March points out: 
Several million dollars that is being spent by the Federal and State Governments  to  relieve unemployment  in  our Slate- 
That is, Western Australia -  is not proving  to  be the answer. 
The answer  is  that there is  no  answer,' contends a high-ranking government official. 
They had been interviewing the Commonwealth Employment Service. The article continued: 
No one has the right answer. We are feeling our way all the time in the economic management of the nation'. 
He  was  pointing out that our unemployment rate is dependent on the economy - including mining investment, the rural sector, the building industry and general confidence. Huge Commonwealth grants will only fire further inflation, the official contends. 
Those huge grants have not been forthcoming for this unemployment. But that may indicate the viewpoint. The article continues: 
The governments have consequently, decided to take only the edge off unemployment. They are hoping that an upturn in confidence and the economy will be an added fillip. 
Meanwhile the unemployed will suffer. 
In WA the governments have decided to inject $3m to create 2,200 additional jobs before 30th June. 
By late last month 1,150 men. were in the course of being employed or had been employed for greatly varying projects. Government spending to that date: $1.5m. 
This .spending barely dented WA's unemployment problem, which last month showed no signs of improvement on the January figures. Usually, a considerable seasonal drop is expected. 
January saw 11,848 people registered as unemployed, the greatest number in 9 years. Thirty per cent of the unemployed were in country areas. 
And it is the country people who have reaped the benefits of Commonwealth grants during the past 3 months. 
The Commonwealth has provided S2.02m for the country area - and $840,000 for the city. 
I am not suggesting for one moment that the $2.02m provided for the country areas was excessive. Tt happened to be $550 a head of unemployed. But the $840,000 for nearly 3 times as many metropolitan unemployed came out not at $550 a head but at $100 a head. Why it could be considered that an expenditure of $550 per capita was necessary to start picking up unemployment in the country and only $100 in the city, I do not know. But that was the position in Western Australia. 
The matter, of course, has been raised before with the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  My colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has asked questions of the Minister for Labour and National Service. The Minister said that unemployment was a lagging economic indicator, although he did profess to see encouraging facets of the tendency concerning unemployment. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports had asked him whether the unemployment figures showed any evidence of- buoyancy on the part of private enterprise and the ability quickly to absorb into active employment those seeking employment. The tragedy is that this has not proven to be so. Therefore it appears that we must expect from the point of view of Government policy that we will be living with a higher unemployment rate unless we can have clear statements from the Government as to what it intends to do. The fact is that power over the economy really rests here in the national Government and the national parliament in Canberra. The State Government of Western Australia can encourage investment; it can make representations to industries such as GMH which are not in any way indebted to the State Government but are very much beholden to the Federal Government and therefore very much subject to pressure from the Federal Govrnment while not subject to pressure from the State Government. All of the things that the State Government can do are secondary to what the Commonwealth can do. 
Sums have been allocated to local government authorities in Western Australia to make up for the closure of enterprises. Minor jobs such as clearing up beaches and these sorts of things have been done. The most that any local government authority has received has been about $37,000 in the Boulder area. But elsewhere sums have been very minimal indeed and do not do very much. I am speaking now of the country areas and the efforts there to pick up unemployment. Of course, unemployment in the cities is not being reduced as ii should be. I know that the Commonwealth has introduced re-training schemes which, in a sense, are dependent on the goodwill of employers who are subsidised to employ people for re-training. However, we believe that, with the emergence of this technological unemployment associated with the closure of factories, there is need for much more positive Commonwealth action than we have seen so far. 
Although I have confined my remarks to Western Australia, I am not contending that this situation exists in Western Australia only. That happens to be the State with which I am most familiar. What seems quite difficult to understand is the great disparity between Commonwealth per capita grants to solve unemployment in rural areas and its mere hopes that some upturn will solve unemployment in the city areas. So far the Governments optimism does not appear to have been justified by the facts. Certain questions were asked by the magazine 'Progress' from which I have already quoted. The magazine states: 
And so, after all that talk of grants and interest-free loans, how much and what sort nf work is being provided for the unemployed? Is there any sign that there has been an unemployment drop? What caused the decline in the  employment  situation in the first place? 
In answer to the first question the magazine states: 
From the $2.02m Commonwealth grant for non-metropolitan areas, $477,036 was given to more than SO local authorities and about $900,000 to five State departments up until late last month. 
This article was written in March 1972. The article continues: 
No more than a third of the Commonwealth money can be spent on equipment and materials. In Western Australia, about a quarter has been used for this purpose. 
When it comes to expenditure on equipment and materials, Western Australia must seek them elsewhere and the benefit in employment is therefore obtained elsewhere. The article continues: 
Local authorities have been given an average of about $8,000 - enough for generally small projects; some lasting days, others weeks and months. 
In Greenough, for example, $1,200 was allocated for cleaning up the beach . . . 
I suggest that, if this is all that we can think of as a solution to unemployment in that area, it is rather a policy of despair. Work has been available in certain State government departments. In the Railways Department there was work for fettlers, and the Forests Department employed 51 men for unskilled work in the forests. Some have been employed by the Metropolitan Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Board, and so on. However, we feel that completely absent from Government utterances has been a positive adherence to the ideal of full employment. No clear statement has been made to indicate that this is the ideal of the Government. I realise that if one says that one stands for full employment, as a Labor government did back in 1945  -  it said that at a time when it was demobilising a very large number of people from the Armed Services - one is committed very perilously to produce a result. If a government were to say that it stood for full employment and did not produce full employment, it would invite derision. But it would be a courageous statement. It is the sort of statement that a government which is concerned for the development of this country should be making. 
I would be glad to hear the Commonwealth Government affirm without equivocation in the present situation in which about 100,000 people are unemployed that it stands for full employment. But I am afraid that constantly the Government gets back to a standard which is not nearly so exacting - the one that  Mr Menzies,  as he was in 194S, always sought to substitute for the Labor Party's affirmation of an aim of full employment, namely, high levels of employment. If the Commonwealth Government committed itself to a policy of full employment, I am certain that there would be within Commonwealth Government departments the expertise to attain it. The answer to the problems that we have raised this afternoon is re-training schemes and a positive Commonwealth commitment to full employment. With that commitment, I am satisfied that the problem of returning 100,000 unemployed persons to work in the large Australia of 13 million people would not be nearly so great as the problem which faced the Labor Party when it was demobilising 750,000 people and seeing people transferring from the manufacture of munitions in a country with a population of only 7 million. The Labor Government attained that demobilisation without unemployment. It is for that reason that we have raised this issue for the Government to consider. 

 - Mr Speaker, I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House has no confidence in the Minister for the Interior because of his handling of the affair of the removal of the Aboriginal 'Embassy' from the lawns in front of Parliament House. 

 Mi CHIPP (Hotham- Minister for Customs and Excise) - by leave - I would like to indicate that after question time we will move for the suspension of Standing Orders to allow this motion to be dealt with this afternoon on the explicit understanding that the Budget will come on at 8 p.m. and consequently we will take action to ensure that the debate on this motion is terminated at an appropriate time before 6 p.m. 
I move: 
That this House has no confidence in the Minister for the Interior because of his handling of the affair of the removal of the Aboriginal embassy' from the lawns in front of Parliament House. 
In January there was a tent erected on the lawns in front of Parliament House to express the points of view of persons concerned about the position and status of Aborigines in this country. It was actually the second occasion on which such a tent was erected. Honourable members will recall that some 3 or 4 years ago a vigil was organised in front of Parliament House to express concern about the position of Aborigines in this country. As the weather at that time was cold and wet a tent was erected, not to the left of Parliament House - treating 'left' as one's left when one stands - at the front door as occurred on the second occasion - but to the right of it. That tent was erected by Commonwealth police officers themselves. They erected h as a shelter for the demonstrators, and 1 understand that they put braziers in the tent to warm the demonstrators. I think it is obvious that that event of 3 or 4 years ago was what inspired the idea of having a tent on the lawns in front of Parliament House as a way of demonstrating. The first tent was erected by Commonwealth police officers themselves. 
We have the advantage, through a debate in the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory, of finding out the assessment by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  of the situation. Upon that assessment he apparently acted. He expressed it in a telegram apologising for his inability to attend the opening of the Tennant Creek Sports Club. In explaining why he could not attend that function, he referred to what he regarded as the frightful dangers developing in Canberra. The Minister's telegram read as follows: 
Because elements of left wing unions and radicals threaten to cause violent demonstrations and possible bloodshed in Canberra this weekend, as was demonstrated last Sunday, I am required by the Prime Minister to return to Canberra for consultation and take steps to prevent radical elements from using Aboriginal movements for their own purposes. 
This crisis situation is a cause of deep concern and, if violence does occur, the consequences will be alarming nationally. 
Please convey my sincere apologies to people at Tennant Creek for inconvenience that has been caused. 
Will make a point of visiting Tennant Creek in near future. Regards, Ralph Hunt. 
This lurid assessment of the situation is apparently the motivation of the Minister's actions. I am at a loss to understand the thinking of a succession of Country Party Ministers for the Interior whom we have had and who have handled the affairs of the Australian Capital Territory. I remember that in August 1966, when the present Leader of the Australian Country Party was Minister for the Interior, there suddenly appeared in the 'Canberra Times' a picture of a new riot squad being trained in Canberra as part of the Canberra police. They had machine guns; they had steel helmets; they had shields; and they had gas masks. After these photographs appeared in the 'Canberra Times'. I asked the then Minister for the Interior why, in what was obviously the most peaceful capital in the Western world, it was necessary to create so fearsome a riot squad. I understand that a good deal of this equipment ultimately left the Australian Capital Territory and perhaps appeared later in Bougainville. It was similar to the equipment which was used during the original Bougainville clash. There seems to me to be a tendency to over-reaction, if not hysteria, on the part of Ministers who handle the affairs of Canberra. 
I return to the present Minister for the Interior and the extraordinary statement that the situation in front of Parliament House involved 'left wing unions and radicals'. Heavens above, the 'Embassy' had been there for about 7 months. I do not know what figures from left wing unions and radicals appeared there, but I would not have thought it would have mattered very much if people from left wing unions and radicals, or for that matter right wing unions, had appeared there. The 'Embassy* was a tolerated demonstration over a period of 7 months. Subsequently a pretence was made to the public in a series of utterances that what had been discovered was that the Commonwealth Government jacked legal power to cope with squatters on public parks. When the case was before  Mr Justice  Fox, he pointed out that the Commonwealth had at all times had power oh an application to the court to remove the tent and that the Commissioner of Police and the Minister admitted that the Commonwealth had this power. The Minister did not seek that court procedure to remove the tent - as he wanted to - because there would have been a court case in which public arguments would have been put and reported. He wanted to avoid 2 things. He wanted to avoid a debate in the Parliament and he wanted to avoid any sort of discussion in the courts on civil rights. 
The reaction of the Minister, apart from the completely unnecessary clashes which took place, has been to bring down a new ordinance - one which is unnecessary, as  Mr Justice  Fox pointed out, because of the already existing powers of the Commonwealth, but one in which significant changes in the law were made and made in a particular direction to which all parties represented on the Senate committee which examines regulations and ordinances have always taken exception, namely, the procedure set out in section 8c (1.) which reads:  8c. - (1.) An officer of the Department of the Interior authorised in writing by the Minister may, by instrument in writing under his hand, certify that land described in the instrument or by reference to a plan on or annexed to the instrument is  unleased  land that - 
belongs to the Commonwealth; 
is within the City Area; and 
is not within an area for the time being declared by the Minister, by notice published in the 'Gazette', to be, for the purposes of this Ordinance, a camping area. 
The old ordinance denned the city limits of Canberra quite clearly. We now have a situation in which the Minister may empower an officer and that officer by instrument in writing can declare that an area comes within the scope of the regulations. No process of publicity is necessary. It is just this exchange of defined power to one exercised from an instrument in writing which gives force and possible objectionable character to the regulations about which people may not know. The situation will be worse when this procedure fs in force than what existed before the regulations were gazetted. The regulations were gazetted and they transformed the state of the law. Erroneous statements were given out from the Government to justify the promulgation of this ordinance to the effect that the Commonwealth lacked the power to prevent trespass. Therefore, the people occupying the land might have assumed that they had a legal right to be there - since the Government itself suggested there was no law. in 40 minutes after a change in the law people, outside were expected to know the law,; and then the proceedings of ejection took place. This is what led to the clash. 
The critics of the Government were not all on the Labor, side. It happens that we have  a  distinguished senator who is  a  member of the Liberal Party of Australia and also an Aborigine. I refer' to  Senator Bonner.  I will quote from  a  report in the Courier-Mail' of Friday, 21st July. It reads: 
In Charters Towers, aboriginal .  Senator N.  Bonner last night predicted that yesterday's Canberra riot would lead to an upsurge of blackpower violence in Australia. 
He said: 'I just can't see how it can be avoided now. 
There are people in our community who will seize on this opportunity to use the 'aboriginals for their own political gain.' 

 Senator Bonner who was in .Charters Towers on a 'meet the people' tour of Queensland, criticised the Federal Government for. enforcing the ordinance under which the police acted.1 - 
He said he had been assured by Government colleagues that nothing would happen ' while Parliament was in recess. "They knew my feelings on the matter,' he said. 
I wanted the right to have this ordinance debated in Parliament. 
I agree that Executive Council has the right to make certain decisions during recess. 
However, in this instance, the Executive Council should not have exercised its authority.'' 

 Senator Bonner accused the Government of deliberately enforcing the ordinance before debate could take place. 
He added: 'I say categorically that I am disappointed with the Government tei the point of being disgusted with its action in this issue.' 
We also are disgusted with its action in this issue. We share  Senator Bonner's  opinion. This is the reason why this motion has been moved. The Minister may say that it was necessary to remove the tent. A similar viewpoint has been taken by the rel* vant committee of the Parliament of Western Australia, namely, that the tent in front of the West Australian Parliament House, which is a protest against the conditions of Aboriginal housing in Western Australia, should ultimately be removed. Discussions apparently took place between the Premier of Western Australia and the demonstrators and it was agreed that after the Budget they would remove the tent. Their hopes rested on the Budget providing an adequate amount for Aboriginal housing in Western Australia, which is estimated by the State Government to need $19m although I understand the Commonwealth offering has not been one-ninth of that sum. The demonstration will continue up to the time the Budget was introduced, to emphasise the position of Aboriginal housing. 1 repeat that they agreed to remove the tent after the Budget was introduced. This was the result of sensible conversations and not the bulldozing and unfair method which the Minister used. 
Assurances apparently were given by the Government to the Aboriginal senator that the ordinances would be debated. What transpired was a deliberate evasion of the Parliament and the Minister's counsel was unable to deny the point made by the judge in the court case that existing power was adequate for the Government if they went through the proper judicial process. All these things show that what the Minister wanted to do he wanted to do clandestinely. We can understand this if we accept the hysterical assessment which the Minister made in the telegram he sent concerning the Tennant Creek sporting club. If this is his assessment of the situation, it is extremely dangerous to have a Minister handling these situations who views himself as being confronted by a colossal, lurid left wing plot when he is dealing with a group of Aboriginal demonstrators outside. I do not agree with the utterances of Black Power people. I do not believe in the method adopted by the Minister. Many demonstrators were not associated with Black Power but were Aboriginal or partAboriginal persons genuinely concerned for their people. Not only were there reactions from  Senator Bonner  but also damaging reactions abroad. One of the most respected newspapers in the United Kingdom is the 'Guardian', which used to be called the 'Manchester Guardian'. It drew attention to an appeal made to  Her  Majesty the Queen by the people ejected from that tent. That newspaper made the following comment: 
The appeal made to the Queen recently by Australia's Aborigines asking her to prevent the Canberra Government  fron  enacting legislation said to be discriminatory, is bound to cause considerable embarrassment to  Mr McMahon's  Government. 
The Aboriginal leaders have asked the Queen to order Australia's Governor-General to reserve the promulgation 'for your Majesty's pleasure' of an ordinance that would empower the Government to remove the Aboriginal 'embassy' which has been encamped on the lawns of the Federal Parliament for S months. 
The embassy- a dozen tan-and-orange tents - was established earlier this year after the rejection of an appeal by Aborigines whose tribal lands were threatened by mining development 
It has achieved remarkable success in focusing Australian opinion on the plight of the Aborigine. 
Initially, the Federal Government tolerated the embassy, but as the issue became more of a thorn - and the protest more effective - it foreshadowed the introduction of an ordinance to clear the tents. 
Australia's racial policies already stick in the throats of Asian nations, and with the SEATO conference opening in Canberra next month the Government apparently felt that the embassy's continued presence (within sight of the conference hall) could bring even worse problems. 
The Aboriginal embassy's letter told the Queen that, if the ordinance is allowed to become law, it is likely to result in a serious abrogation of the rights of all Australians, whether Aboriginal or otherwise, to bring before the Federal Parliament a continuous peaceful protest 
We therefore appeal to your Majesty as Queen and the ultimate source of protection, to direct his  Excellency  the Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, that, upon such time as the proposed ordinance is presented to him for promulgation, he reserve the promulgation of it for your Majesty's pleasure.' 
It is unfortunate and extremely damaging to Australia that in such temperate and sensible terms, although they may not be constitutionally informed, the denizens of that tent and the organisers of the demonstrations from the tent have put a statement of the utmost dignity correctly diagnosing the Government's motives before the people of Britain. 
I disliked the appearance of those tents outside. They were described by somebody as visual pollution. I take the point of view that they constituted visual pollution. The sight of the tents on what was a beautiful stretch seemed to me completely to spoil the view of Canberra. I travelled 21,000 miles with a select committee inquiring into Aboriginal voting rights, but that place was a palace compared to what I saw as a member of that committee and the conditions under which Aborigines live in the south-west of Western Australia, around Gnowangerup and elsewhere where the weather is extremely cold, or generally speaking, throughout the Northern Territory. I would say it was even superior to the transitional dwellings, usually made out of aluminium and entirely inappropriate to the climate where they are erected, which are built for Aborigines in the rest of Australia. So I say to myself: 'Much as I disliked the place being out there, it put before us constantly the position of the Aboriginal people, especially in relation to their accommodation'. 
One of the most distinguished Aborigines in the country, one of the most highly educated -  Mr Phillip  Roberts - many years before he was an employee of the Commonwealth spoke about the conditions of the Aborigines. He said: 'You live like princes; we live like dogs in the dust'.. He was not referring to people who lived with the dignity of nomadic and tribal life and who do not particularly need the shelters in the form required by Europeans. He was referring to people whose aspirations are towards standards of living similar to those of Europeans. It is easy to deride these people. Some of them, not all  by  any means, use the jargon of New. York negro Black Power. They talk  about Caucasians  meaning white people. They are apparently unaware that Aborigines themselves are  Caucasians.  All these  logical  things we can point out. But outside this Parliament was a protest of the heart, which was by no means ineffective ia speaking to the conscience of Australia in the persons of thousands of tourists -and others who visit this city. 
If we have any sensitivity at all, we should take the trouble to see the conditions of Aborigines to remind us of the problem with which we ought to be deal. ing motivated by the utmost generosity. All through this situation we had firstly a Liberal Minister in charge of Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable W. C. Wentworth, and now  we have  the Minister  for  the Environment Aborigines and the Arts,  the 
Honourable Peter Howson co existing with a Country Party Minister in charge of the land and in charge of practical events. When any of these Aboriginal evictions or denials of right take place the Liberal Minister who is supposedly the defender of the Aborigines does, like the House of Lords in Gilbert and Sullivan, nothing in particular and does it very . well. There seemed to be no ministerial concern from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. We heard of no ministerial protection being given or no concern being expressed. The regulations were gazetted and. the duty to conduct an unnecessary clash was imposed upon the police of Canberra and upon the people who were in the tents. This proceeded from the extraordinary, assessment of a situation of great danger which was made by the Minister for the Interior and for knowledge of which we are indebted to the Northern Territory Legislative Council which gave publicity to his telegram. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting 1 shall move: 
That the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972, No. 20 of 1972, made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-72 be disallowed. 
I ask the Minister for External Territories: Are the reports that West Irianese have been deported from Papua New Guinea to West Irian correct? If these reports are correct, is this an action of the new Government of Papua New Guinea or is it an action by the Australian authorities, as it is reported to be? If it is an action by the Australian authorities, why is it that jurisdiction in this matter has not been transferred to the Government of Papua New Guinea? 
This Bill simply takes from the Papua New Guinea Act a restriction on the size of the Ministry of the Government of Papua New Guinea. The present Act limits the Ministry to 17. The Bill simply deletes from the Act the limiting clause. The Opposition therefore supports this measure, more so because we know this measure has been requested by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Michael  Somare. The Opposition hopes, however, that the Minister is giving active consideration to the removal from the Papua New Guinea Act of those sections of the Act which give the power of veto or reservation to the Administrator and to the Minister in Canberra. I think it would be true to say that at the present time Papua New Guinea has de facto self-government but not de jure self-government. It has de facto self-government because at the present time the Minister and the Commonwealth are not intervening, nor is the Administrator, to limit or to reserve any legislation which is coming before the House. 
However, there is a curious duality about the Government of Papua New Guinea at the present time. There seems to be still in the Administrator's office some sort of decisive control over the police, and I rather wonder whether it would not be wiser to encourage Papua New Guinea to develop a Ministry of Police of its own so that in such developments as took place on the Gazelle Peninsula, when the late  Mr Jack  Emmanuel was perhaps the victim of a clash produced between the Administration and the people from a particular part of the Gazelle Peninsula, it would have been much better, I feel, if the dialogue with the people of the locality had been the responsibility of the Government of Papua New Guinea rather than of an officer of the Administration. I think that there are certain dangers in our present transitional period and I think that the Minister is taking a step to eliminate one of them. There is no reason why the Chief Minister should not create new ministries. The Opposition, therefore, has no objection to this legislation. 
I move: 
That the second reading be postponed pending  a  renegotiation of the affairs of the Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd to provide for an indigenous equity of at least SO per cent. 
I do not want to delay the House over this Bill but we feel that there is an important principle to be stated in relation to it. In  1952  the Commonwealth and a private company, Placer Development Ltd, created Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd. The Commonwealth and Placer Development Ltd both held  50  per cent of the shareholding in that company. The Commonwealth is selling out its shares and passing them over to the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea, which is an instrumentality of the Government of Papua New Guinea. So far so good. But to this new company will come other interests of Placer Development Ltd so that the Government of Papua New Guinea will have a  35  per cent shareholding and the private sector of the company will have a  65  per cent shareholding. 
The trouble with so much in Papua New Guinea is that there is insufficient provision for indigenous ownership. It appears that as the economic trend of planning and so on is developing independence will come with expatriates owning about  90  per cent of secondary industry and indigenes owning about  10  per cent or less and expatriates owning  50  per cent of the value of agricultural production. As expatriates represent only a very small percentage of the population this is an unhealthy situation. 
We believe, therefore, that where there is government action and ' where ' we are consciously handing over to the Government of Papua New Guinea a Commonwealth Government equity in any Papua New Guinea enterprise, and especially where we ourselves have had a  50  per cent holding as a government in relation to the private sector of a company, the indigenous equity should not be less. We regard this as an important principle. I am not sure of what the status of the agreement is when one moves an amendment of this character. But we believe that this principle should be stated and we are anxious that in all possible arrangements the Commonwealth Government can make between now and independence it should do its utmost to develop an indigenous equity in investment in Papua New Guinea.' 
There will be a very large Japanese stake in the development of Papua New Guinea. Very few Australian businessmen are awake as early as Japanese businessmen and all of the actions of Japanese businessmen are co-ordinated by the Government of Japan. Japan has the most successful partnership between government and business that exists anywhere in the world. It is fair enough to call that country, 'Japan Ltd*. There will be a government coming into power in Papua New Guinea very inexperienced in the business field. I think it is quite important that we, in our relationship with Papua New Guinea, should give the example when we are setting up a company, such as the one set out in the Bill, of ensuring that they have a decisive equity in that company because if they are to go into partnership with businessmen as astute as some of those operating around the world at the present time they may find that they will run into very serious trouble within a very few years of their independence. That is why we believe it is important to affirm this principle. 
The ministerial statement insofar as it refers to Commonwealth scholarships foreshadows extending the system of scholarships to more children and introducing a means test It also shows how stubbornly the Commonwealth adheres to a restricted and confined view of education. The Commonwealth is interested in the education of sections of the population far more than it is interested in producing a skilled and educated population. Wherever one turns one sees the same attitude, whether in its utter indifference to the needs of underprivileged areas for pre-school centres, its indifference to the leakage of students from secondary education in the first 3 years of secondary school or its refusal to come to grips with the problems of education for poor children and isolated children or the problem of dropping out for economic reasons. Accurately it is now calling the scholarships 'senior' secondary scholarships; continuing to ignore the first 3 years of secondary education. When  Sir Robert  Menzies introduced the original Commonwealth secondary scholarship awards in the House of Representatives on 19th May 1964 he said: 
I believe that many children of ability will be encouraged by this scheme to stay on at school for a longer period than they might otherwise have done, to their own benefit and that of the nation. 
The system, in the words of Professor Henry Schoenheimer. was 'imposed on the States without prior consultation with State authorities as part of an overall Federal pre-election strategy'. The form of examination for the scholarships devised by the Australian Council of Educational Research was independent of the syllabuses of State or private schools and its papers in the humanities, written expression, quantitative and or mathematical thinking, and scientific thinking were designed to eliminate cramming and determine the scholarships on the basis of capacity to think and not upon learning. In this whole system there is no conception of assisting the child facing disaster because the breadwinner of the family is dead, or ill, or has deserted the family, or is an alcoholic or the family is large or disadvantaged for any reason. Schoenheimer's article calls this particular form of intervention with education 'dollarships'. And he who hath gets more. I speak as a beneficiary under the system. A son and a daughter of mine won secondary scholarships and university scholarships, and my son has gained a post-graduate scholarship. But let us examine the intention declared by  Sir Robert  Menzies that the scheme would enable children 'to stay at school for a longer period than they might otherwise have done'. The Australian Council of Educational Research, which devised the examination, has studied the question of the relationship, if any, between capacity to stay at school as a result of the award of a Commonwealth secondary scholarship. It is shattering to see how utterly negligible the concept of the award has been in producing any result in this direcion. Dealing with the effect of the award on educational plans, the summary of findings of ACER research series No. 87 says, of the effects: 
Parents of 97 out of 100 Commonwealth secondary scholarships award winners in the Brisbane sample, 90 (out of 100) in the Sydney sample and 93 (out of 100) in the Melbourne sample reported that the student would have stayed on to complete secondary education had he not won a Commonwealth secondary scholarship award. And in an additional S cases (out of 300) parents reported that the student probably would have stayed on to complete secondary education badhe not won a Commonwealth secondary scholarship award. In only 2 cases (out of 300) did parents report that the student would not have stayed on at school to complete secondary education had he failed to win a Commonwealth secondary scholarship award, although in an additional 10 cases they reported that the student probably would not have stayed on. The remaining 3 students had already left school. 
Of course any scholarship does constitute welcome financial assistance. It was so in the case of my children, for instance. But it is perfectly clear that the original objective declared by  Sir Robert  Menzies of enabling to stay on at school children who would otherwise not have been able to stay on at school, has not been achieved to any significant extent whatever. I will not belittle the awards otherwise. I am just picking on that objective. The ACER report continues: 
Parents of 63 per cent of Commonwealth secondary scholarship award winners in the Brisbane sample, 60 per cent in the Sydney sample and 65 per cent in the Melbourne sample reported that the award was 'some help' financially;- 
I would make the same report, of course -  and a further 17 per cent of parents of Commonwealth secondary scholarship award winners in the Brisbane sample, 13 per cent in the Sydney sample and 14 per cent in the Melbourne sample reported that the award was a 'big help' financially. 
Professor Schoenheimer points out the sociological effects of the scheme. He writes: 
Select 2 big secondary schools, one a very poor inner suburban one, the other extremely wealthy, each large enough to have 160 students at the age to sit for this week's Commonwealth secondary scholarship examination. . . . 
Statistically the students of the inner suburban school are going to gain5 scholarships, with a total value over 2 years of $2,500; and students of the very wealthy school will be awarded 24 scholarships with a total value of $19,200. Researchers find the latter rarely need them.' 
The value of these scholarships is half of 1 per cent of all educational expenditure in the nation but they have become prestige symbols. Some of the greater non-Catholic private schools, awarding free places, award them to these scholarship holders. State schools get one scholarship for every 16 eligible students; Catholic schools get one for every 12 and non-Catholic private schools get one for every 7. Catholic schools improve their percentage gradually as they are forced to eliminate the poor from their schools, for all the evidence is that the system is orientated to favouring higher socio-economic groups and it is cer tainly a fact that the hard pressed Catholic system is increasingly eliminating the poor as it is forced by the rising cost of education to increase fees. The ACER study of the effects of winning Commonwealth secondary scholarship awards concludes: 
While 17 per cent of parents of Commonwealth secondary scholarship award winners in the Brisbane sample, 13 per cent in the Sydney sample, and 14 per cent in the Melbourne sample reported that the award was 'a big help' financially, it appears that the award itself- 
This is the finding of ACER -  was crucial in keeping only (at the most) 1 per cent of the Brisbane sample, 7 per .  centof the Sydney sample, and 4 per cent of the Melbourne sample at school for the purpose of completing secondary education. 
Therefore whatever need there may have been in 1963-64 to provide scholarships of (his kind to keep children at school, it appears that except for a very small proportion of the students represented in this study- 
That is, the ACER study-  this is no longer necessary. 
There appears to be reasonable grounds therefore for suggesting that a more effective use of the funds at present devoted to scholarships might be either in adding to the number of tertiary level awards, or in using some form of means test to ensure that awards at the secondary school level go to families likely to be in real need. 
This affirms a principle of assisting where need is greatest. However where theLabor Party would join issue with this ACER report would be in its last comment., I do not doubt that scholarship winners in real need should have financial assistance, but what of children in real need who do not reach the level of third year high school to tackle the scholarship and those  who do  not sit for the scholarship because, scholarship or no, the parental income will not allow them to proceed to the examination because they know they will not be able to continue. Professor Schoenheimer says of the examination, which is the basis of the award: 
The winners will be decided by probably the most rigorous application of the most sophisticated assessment techniques in the English speaking world. The examination is imperfect, yes, as all things human are, but it is possibly the least imperfect mass ability testing instrument that the wit of man has so far managed to devise. 
As a system of testing, however, it ignores whole categories of children - above all, children with manual skills and those without linguistic ability for various background reasons. One very powerful factor  in the lack of linguistic ability, as I propose to comment later, is a lack of a preschool education. This scheme is based on a narrow concept of education, if this is to remain the Commonwealth's great effort at the secondary level, even when there is added to it the system of technical scholarships. There is a need for Commonwealth backing for a broadening of education for national efficiency and creativeness. The most highly educated and the most affluent society in the world, the United States, has a population owning 50 million guns. The relevant committee reported to the  President  that the United States was moving to a position in which the wealthy would live in fortified enclaves and move from point to point along sanitised corridors. 
Despite its high percentages of tertiary education and despite Australia's higher percentages than Britain and Sweden, the United States is showing us that it is leaving a yawning gap in the education of poorer people. Falling further and further behind in a socio-economic system which demands certificates for employment, people become increasingly hopeless and frustrated. This is, in part, one of the bases of the crime and the 50 million guns. Of course, the situation is aggravated where the depressed are a different racial group, such as negroes or Puerto Ricans, subject to discrimination, but it is bad without that. This is what we need to avoid. The Commonwealth must back the diversification of education.  Mr Philip  0'Carroll research assistant in the Department of Philosophy at the Australian National University, recently spoke at an education seminar. He protested at false distinctions between the humanities and the utilities - between culture and know-how. He comments: 
This absurd distinction between know-how and culture would disappear if we were free to pursue our own individual combinations of talents and interests. 
My comment on the field of education which we have just been discussing is that the whole of the scholarship system, which is a powerful determinant of economic assistance - unfortunately to those who need it least - is geared to the intellectual and verbal skills, and a child who does not possess verbal skills will appear to be unintelligent when intrinsically he is not unin telligent. The Minister should beware of quoting monetary rises in expenditure. They reflect inflation in part. They reflect rises in teachers' salaries. Do not let us forget that teachers' salaries constitute 85 per cent of the recurring costs of education. It is proposed that there will be an increase in the value of certain scholarships. Those who get the $150 free of means test and the full $250 subject to means test in fact are not getting much more, because of inflation, than those who won the award back in 1964. Of course, the monetary grant must rise. It becomes less if it does not rise. It stays the same in purchasing power, mostly, if it rises. 
The Minister, in referring to the increase in the number of open entrance scholarships at universities by 1,000 from 8,500 to 9,500 and the increase in scholarships to colleges of advanced education from 4,000 to 6,000, does not mention how, with increasing enrolments, the percentage of scholarship holders has been falling. He does not give us the percentage of scholarship holders in relation to total enrolment and, of course, he ignores inflation in his references to monetary values. An increase in the value of the at home rate from $700 to $800 is simply standing still. The increase in the at home rate from $700 to $800 is a 14 per cent increase. Inflation is running at the rate of 7 per cent a year. It is a long time since the last adjustment and the increase would be absorbed by inflation in 2 years. The $100 is simply absorbing part of the inflation since the last adjustment. An increase in the value of the at home rate from $700 to $800 is simply standing still in relation to the purchasing power of money. 
This applies equally to the increase in the away from home rate which rose from $1,100 to $1,300. I invite the Minister's attention to the increases in salary for Ministers which were proposed in legislation which was dropped because the Labor Party did not support it. The application of a similar percentage rise to student allowances would give figures very different from the 'at home' $800 and the 'away from home' $1,300. The Minister's claim that the increase in the living away from home rate gives an important extra measure of support is simply a gloss. The adjusted family income level from $3,100 to $4,200 is also not much more than an as you were' increase offset by inflation. Of course, it was welcome. For some years everybody has been falling behind with frozen permitted income levels. To keep up with inflation, educational expenditure must run very hard to stand still. 
The grants in aid to various learned and research societies, and so vital a body as the Australian Pre-School Association, are simply pathetic. The increase of $51,000 is laughable. There is no real grip on the problem of the education of migrant children, though the increase is welcome. The Commonwealth is totally responsible for bringing migrant children to Australia and should tackle the problem of assisting their education with the same resoluteness and responsibility as, say, it tackled the Commonwealth reconstruction training scheme, which it acknowledged was fully its responsibility. 
Aboriginal secondary grants and Aboriginal study grants are valuable but the grants should start earlier than at age 14. Aborigines are chronically disadvantaged at the age of 6, at the age of 10 and at the age of 12. Adult grants to Aborigines need to be diversified and an attack on Aboriginal adult illiteracy deliberately launched. The form of assistance to the States still lacks any Commonwealth approach to create a fund to bring poor schools up to acceptable standards and to assist poor families whose children attend government and non-government schools. 
The continuing neglect of pre-school education is utterly disastrous. In the Australian Capital Territory there is a model which, at least pro-tem, should be the model for the States with Commonwealth assistance. The Australian Teachers Federation commented on the pre-school situation in the Australian Capital Territory. It pointed out that pre-school education in the Australian Capital Territory is available to all children 3 years of age and over and the aim is to give each child at least 1 year pre-school experience. When a child becomes eligible for enrolment, his name is placed on a waiting list unless there is a vacancy at the centre. In all cases children are enrolled in waiting list order with preference being given to 4 year olds. The Federation mentioned a pre-school mobile travelling unit and pre-school education for physically handicapped children in the 
Australian Capital Territory. The general ignorance of the significance of pre-school education means that the Commonwealth can continue a policy of ruthless neglect without much electoral damage. This therefore makes pre-school education a litmus test of its concern for Australian children. If it does not show this concern it will not be electorally penalised. If, therefore, it does not show this concern it shows what its basic motivation is because this education is vital. 
Very definite promises were made by Prime Minister Gorton in this field and Australia has waited for what have been called the ,r................._., which so far have not come into being. Between them 200,000 working women have 271,000 preschool children in Australia and only 19,000 of these 271,000 children are in pre-schools. In New South Wales where government interest in pre-school education is all but non-existent, the cost to parents of pre-schooling is between $12 and $16 per week per child, rising to $30 per week in well-to-do suburbs. A preschool education for a year costs more than a university education. The fastest growth of intelligence occurs between the ages of 0 to 5 years, and the intelligence is stunted in a defective environment. The absence from the wonderfully stimulating environment of pre-school education of so many children is a tragedy. Disadvantaged children, especially linguistically .disadvantaged children, face an accumulating disadvantage. Let us face this non-attainment of Commonwealth scholarships in the poorer areas and the high gaining of Commonwealth scholarships in the more privileged socio-economic groups. It is perfectly obvious that the speech in a middle class home is more advanced, more developed than the speech in poorer homes. This is really basic in the development of what we call intelligence but which is not intrinsic intelligence. Abroad they have carried out schemes whereby they have used preschool education successfully to eliminate this disadvantage from the child, 
Denis Lawton in his study, 'Social Class, Language and Education', wrote: 
There is little doubt that there exists  a  social educational problem; a great deal of potential talent is wasted, or looking at the problem from  a  different point of view, the education of large numbers of working class children is below satisfactory standard. There is evidence to support the) view that inadequacy of linguistic range and control is  a  very important factor in this underachievement and that linguistic inadequacy is a cumulative deficit' i.e., it is a disadvantage which generates  a  vicious circle of difficulties increasing in magnitude as school life progresses. 
Bereita and S.  Engelma whose study of kindergarten policy successful in assisting to overcome disabilities of disadvantaged children is an important contribution, note: 
The language difficulties of disadvantaged children were seen to consist not of deficiencies in vocabulary and grammar as such, but of failure to master certain use of language. . . . The disadvantaged child masters a language which is adequate for maintaining social relationships and for meeting his social and material needs, but he does not learn to use language for obtaining and transmitting information, for monitoring his own behaviour and for carrying on verbal reasoning. In short he fails to master the cognitive uses of language, which are uses that are of primary importance in school 
I want to conclude by speaking about 2 other groups of disadvantaged children. I do not have the time to develop this as broadly as 1 would like. I speak first about the isolated children. I wish to see Commonwealth assistance' to those States which wish to build hostels attached to their high schools. 1 wish to see Commonwealth assistance to those private schools which wish to cater for their isolated children. If some Catholic boarding schools, for instance, want to cater especially for isolated children from the back blocks, I believe that Commonwealth assistance to construct the facilities to help those disadvantaged children whose parents chose that form of education should be given to them. 1 believe also that the Department of Education and Science should be required to investigate methods for improving radio and television schooling, directed at the needs of isolated children. We should look realistically at the amount of money which is given to the parents of isolated children to enable them to put their children into schools. It is not sufficient to have this done by way of income tax concessions. Tax concessions simply mean that those who have a high income get an advantage out of the concessions and those who have a low income do not get enough out of the concessions to assist them. 
In certain other fields of education, for instance, the Labor Party wishes to see adopted in both government and non government schools in this country a system which exists in the Inner London Education Authority whereby special assistance can be given to poor children. We speak very often about assisting poorer schools but there is a problem of poorer children. The Commonwealth has a direct educational power in benefits to students. When grants are made to Aborigines to assist them with their education, this is done under the Commonwealth power of benefits to students but, after all, what is the reason for this special assistance to an Aborigine to receive an education? We know that socioeconomically he is disadvantaged. We know all the disadvantages of his home. Surely, however, the reason for assisting an Aborigine is not because be is black but because in Australia being an Aborigine means almost ipso facto that he comes from a poor home. Therefore, on this reasoning, there are good grounds for assisting any poor child, not merely Aboriginal poor children. 
I believe that the children, of widows, the children of deserted wives, all those children whose parents have to receive assistance from Departments of Child Weir fare, should receive direct assistance from the Commonwealth for books, fees if they attend private schools, uniforms - all their educational needs. We are singling out for magnificent assistance all those who have the verbal skills and other qualities necessary to get Commonwealth scholarships. As I say, my own family has been a major beneficiary under that system and I realise all of its advantages. But surely the Commonwealth has to develop a conception of national efficiency and not have us in the American situation where some people are highly privileged educationally and others are left to rot, producing the disastrous divisions in American society which are beginning to develop. Of course, we believe that a schools commission as a permanent inquiry into educational needs will be able to take an intelligent look at the vital areas of need and assist broader ranges of people to have educational and other disabilities overcome in the interests of building a population of skill increasing national efficiency and giving a creative and satisfactory life to more people. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fox)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the House, while not refusing a second reading to the Bill, is of the opinion that there should be established an Australian Pre-school Commission to develop pre-school centres throughout Australia at standards comparable to those in the Australian Capital Territory and to provide for training of professional staff for these centres. 
This matter was touched on in the statement on education that was made by myself following the statement on education of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  which omitted entirely reference to pre-school education, except in a very minor way. The Minister has taken the trouble to distribute to us the report of  Dr W.  C. Radford. Therefore I am emboldened to quote to the Minister what  Dr Radford  had to say recently about a major purpose in education. Referring  :o  pre-school facilities he made this comment: 
It is here that the beginnings of avoidable inequalities between persons lie. We must in sober earnest be aware that there are no ways that we yet know to ensure that all children enter this world equal in physical capacity, equal in mental capacity, equal in the opportunities that they will see, and take, to make the most of those capacities. We cannot, whatever we will, guarantee such equality, but we can with the will to action do what we can greatly to reduce the present avoidable inequalities. 
One of the most conspicious inequalities in Australian education is in the field of preschool education. The age 0 to 5 years is the age of the most rapid development of the intellect. As I said in a previous debate touching on this matter, the intellect can be stunted by an unfriendly environment - an environment unfriendly to its development. It is quite astonishing that the Liberal Government is so disinterested in pre-school education when it is the middle classes, in the main, from whom the Liberals are drawn and who value preschool education more than any other group. Not long ago the Sydney 'Bulletin' published an article 'The 0 to 5 experience'. Francine Bartlett, a social worker for the Sutherland Shire Council, New South Wales, was quoted as saying: 
The people who really need to send their children to kindergartens just can't afford it. 
The article continued: 
A survey conducted on pre-school attendance in Melbourne by  Dr Marion  de Lemos, of the Australian Council of Educational Research, showed that the higher the socio-economic status of the suburb, the more likely a child is to attend a preschool. The survey showed that the children of fathers in professional, higher administrative and managerial positions were far more likely to go to pre-schools than the children of unskilled workers. "The pre-school,' says  Dr De  Lemos, 'clearly does not provide a service for the children of working mothers. . . . The results confirm claims that pre-school facilities are not equitably distributed, and serve mainly to confer advantages on already advantaged middle class children rather than to equalise educational opportunities for children from less privileged backgrounds. Clearly some radical change is needed in the way pre-schools are set up and funded.' 
In this city of Canberra where the Government's advisers - the civil servants - live a greater percentage of children are enrolled for pre-school education than anywhere else. In 1970 as a percentage of the eligible school population the Australian Capital Territory had 52 per cent of children enrolled in pre-school centres. The Australian figure for 1970 was 14.8 per cent. New South Wales had 3.1 per cent, Victoria 28.9 per cent, Queensland 13.2 per cent, South Australia 16.6 per cent, Western Australia 12.8 per cent, Tasmania 12.9 per cent and the Northern Territory 34.6 per cent. Many years ago the Commonwealth Department of Health set up the Lady Gowrie centres. These were established in underprivileged areas. This was the last effort by- the Commonwealth to assist underprivileged children in preschool education. This took place in 1940. The centres were set up as models for the States which were expected to imitate these models. But the States have never had the funds to imitate these models. The result is that the great majority of Australian children are seriously deprived. 
The Government avoids this subject. None of the educational experts such as Radford, whose work the Government circulates to every member of Parliament in spheres which suit the Government, would justify a position such as that in New South Wales where in 1970 only 3.1 per cent of eligible children were receiving pre-school education. There is almost a conspiracy on the part of the Minister to act as if this did not matter. As in this measure a degree of financial assistance is given for the training of kindergarten teachers. There is complete silence about the election pledge of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton.  Although the Liberal Party has now disposed of him it won an election under his leadership. During that election campaign he promised the establishment of what the Sydney 'Bulletin' calls the 'Gortongartens' - the pre-school centres promised by then Prime Minister Gorton. Every member of the Liberal Party was identified with that election pledge. The mere change of leadership does not dispose of it. It has been the subject of a study by Professor Karmel who was  chairman  of the Committee of Inquiry into Education in South Australia. That Committee's study into kindergartens leads to this conclusion which is found at pages 245 and 246: 
Kindergartens, if widely available and backed by adequate medical and psychological services, can provide opportunities for the early identification and treatment of handicaps of all types at a period in the child's life when corrective measures are likely to be most effective. 

The marathon speech which has just been made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sets out future developments in tertiary education, matching the Government's view of future developments in primary and secondary education presented last week. It continues a practice which I think is less than fully gracious towards the House. We have received 3 magnificent reports, one each from the Australian Research Grants Committee, the Australian Commission on Advanced Education and the Australian Universities Commission, all of which require close study in conjunction with the 32-page statement of the Minister. If we permitted the matter to be left simply as a question that the paper be printed we could be sure that the debate would go to the bottom of the notice paper, especially In the rush of the last session of this Parliament. We would not then' be able to comment on the statement. However, despite the brevity of time that the Minister has allowed us to study the question, I would like to make one or two comments which will not be equal to the comments that I could have made if there had been adequate time to consider the matter. 
The Minister has foreshadowed immense expenditure on tertiary education. The real division of educational privilege in Australia is not so much between those students who get a private school education and those students who get a government school education as it is between young people who get a tertiary education and young people who do not. I have been associated with the Australian National University for a good many years and have served on its Finance Committee for perhaps 22 years. Over the next 3 years $1 14m is to be expended on that university. I do not oppose that expenditure. I think that is an essential expenditure, but let us face it, it averages $38m a year for about 6,000 students. Students receiving a tertiary education have immense sums expended on them by the Australian taxpayers. A child receiving 3years of secon dary education has expended on him about $525 a year, or $1,575 over the 3 years of his secondary education. I do not think it is too much to say that on one university student the taxpayers spend $13,000 and on the other student they spend $1,500. 
I have made that comparison particularly in view of the fact that university students have a great deal to say about educational privilege. But we are concerned about the accessibility of universities to people who, normally speaking, would not be able to afford to attend them. It was my good fortune to attend the University of Western Australia when education there was free. ' If it had not been free I would not have been able to attend that university. It is still the view of the Labor Party that free  education  should be available at university level, I do not, however, believe that this in itself means equality of educational opportunity. 
Many other things are- needed to ensure equality of educational opportunity. We need to look at the economic conditions of many families who cannot put their children through a secondary education. Those children do noteven reach the level at which they might have access to tertiary education. However, we believe that there are possibilities of tertiary education within the existing system which can be increased if certain steps are taken. Firstly, many students of ability could receive a tertiary education, either at universities or at colleges of advanced education, if the facilities for part time study were improved. 
The Minister has cited figures for external tuition and part time studentship. If he studies those figures in relation to the enrolments to which he has referred he will see that very few students are in that category. We believe that many more parttime centres should be. developed in the universities. I have been a part-time student. It was my experience that when parttime students came to borrow university library books the people who had been engaged in full time study during the day had already borrowed them. Part-time students were at a considerable disadvantage. I am pleased that the Macquarie University has deliberately set about the creation of a part-time students centre with library facilities and with tutors for part-time students. We would like to see that as part of the Commonwealth Government's plan in all of the Australian universities. It would be one way of assisting the boys and girls who have to earn their living, who have not been able to leave school and go straight into a university, either because they do not have a scholarship or parents to support them to get a chance to study at a university. lt is an interesting thing that some of the finest quality of students are part-time students. It seems that if a boy or a girl becomes a part-time student immediately after leaving school where they are confronted with the problem of both adjusting themselves to a job and trying to continue their studies, they become drop-outs. But those who go along later at about the age of 25 when they know what it is that they want to study, when they have a definite knowledge of the application of what they want to study, become the best students in the university. We believe that to meet the real needs of the Australian community much more attention should be given to the part-time student. This would be to take a step towards the equality of educational opportunity and also a step towards national efficiency. 
We also believe that it is time the Commonwealth Government committed itself on the question of open universities. I suppose that no country is more tradition ridden academically than England. It has been rather difficult for steps to be taken to ensure Oxford and Cambridge are joined over the years by the so-called red brick universities. Academically there was resistance to the idea of the open university - a university using the untraditional techniques of radio, television, lending libraries, seminars, tutorial papers going through the post and other devices for students who actually could not come and work in an institution in a fixed geographical locality. But as time has gone on the academic respect for England's open universities has greatly increased and it is recognised that they have contributed a great deal to educational practice. 
It is our belief that these techniques of radio, television, seminars and centres and tutorial papers should be applied not only to university studies but also to further education and to adult education. In other words, we believe that there are many valuable people in this community who did not get educational opportunities in the past and who could get them through these means. We believe that open universities, apart from being a valuable additional form of education in Australia, would make good the years that the locust has eaten for many people who have missed their educational opportunities. 
I do not know really what to make of this question of student flat accommodation. There is now a tendency on the part of many students not to want to go into residence in colleges affiliated with the universities because they do not like the discipline. There are some extremely expensive colleges, which I will not name, which were built in the past or halls of residence which are not fully occupied. Apparently what the Minister for Education and Science is foreshadowing is a Commonwealth acceptance qf the recommendation of the Australian Universities Commission that universities should provide flats for the accommodation of students. I hope that the people concerned will recognise the princely level , of .concern that the Commonwealth Government is showing towards a relatively small body of students. We in Opposition in this House are pleading for a pre-school education in the most under-privileged areas of Australia where no pre-school education exists. The educational structure of this country is becoming increasingly privileged and increasingly top heavy. The pre-school facilities are all in the wealthy suburbs and not in the poor ones. The Commonwealth scholarships system - the Australian Council of Educational Research itself has demonstrated this - is directing the money towards the more well-to-do sector of the community. We are to have a very great increase in expenditure apparently in providing private accommodation for students. I am inclined to believe that the future interest of the Commonwealth is in building good colleges affiliated with universities and in developing halls of residence. If the students do not wish to live under that discipline but wish to live out in flats I think they should pay the economic rent themselves. But the colleges- the places of residence - seem to me to be the places where the most effective association of students in education can take place. 
It is a good thing in a hall of residence or a college for a man who is doing a medical degree to rub shoulders with a man who is doing an engineering degree, a man training for teaching or a man going into the Commonwealth Public Service. It has been found in the past that this association in colleges has been one of the valuable aspects of education. 1 personally regret it if we are now to go into a development whereby we will spread these people out in flats to live in small groups of associated students outside of the benefits that they can get from the collegiate association. It is true that our halls of residence are not the adequate educational concept. I would like to see them developed towards the fully collegiate status whereby they would have in them as far as possible resident tutors. I believe that the long experience of university education of the past in this respect is something upon which we should be building. 
The question of academic salaries has been touched on by the Minister. There is a need for a new realism in this field. There is a great disparity of ; career sacrifice. Everyone knows that a professor of engineering, if he abandoned his professorship in engineering, would earn a great deal more as a professional engineer. Everyone knows that a man who becomes a professor of surgery probably sacrifices about $50,000 a year that he could earn as a practising surgeon. I think that it is time we acknowledged this in salary levels of certain faculties. There are, of course, great difficulties in effecting this because of inter-disciplinary academic jealousy. There might be a good deal of resentment if a professor of surgery were paid a great deal more than a professor of history. I fear we need to be more realistic about this otherwise we will find that we are not getting into the chairs the men who are absolutely at the top of their professions. I want the man who is absolutely top of his profession in surgery to be the man who is training surgeons. We are far too conservative on this question of salaries. There is a realistic case for making a completely different approach. 
The Government is greatly wedded to the policy of recurring matching grants and it never acknowledges how unfair the system is to the States. For instance, the 
Commonwealth will provide a dollar if a State provides $1.85. Let us take a look at this in the context of a case that almost beautifully fitted the point I am making. There was an increase in professorial salaries of about $2,850. The State found $1,850, the Commonwealth found $1,000 and the Commonwealth got back $1,400 in taxation. Therefore, if there is less than usual enthusiasm in the States about these recurring grants, let us acknowledge that they get the worst end of the stick and that  the Commonwealth rides across its own inflation, expressed in  increased academic salaries, by getting back in the form of taxation on them either 1 all or more of what it makes in recurring grants. (Extension' of time granted.) . The : Labor Party believes that the Commonwealth should progressively take over the , financing of tertiary education, beginning . with the universities. If that expenditure is, shall we say, $100m a year the Commonwealth could find that amount of money with no need for a matching grant. from the States on the. condition that the .States spend the money so .saved in some other, area of education. By doing this the Commonwealth would advance university education and education at other levels. , .  
The Minister has spoken extensively about the Australian National 'University. I believe that the ANU should be truly national. That is to say, it should draw its student body undergraduate as well as graduate, from all over Australia. It should not 'have a strong tendency' at" one level - the research level - to be a national institution or even an international one, drawing students from all over the world, and at the other level to be a ' university of Canberra. The Opposition believes that the ANU is reaching the limits of its size and it is about time we started to make it exclusively national, drawing its students from all over Australia. Enrolments would include students from Canberra, according to the standards of admission. We are approaching a time for a university of Canberra established to service northern Victoria, southern New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory itself as a regional institution. If the ANU is to be  a  national university let it at both the levels of the Research schools and general studies be entirely national. 
The Minister has mentioned the Australian Institute of Marine Science, which has been established 10 years too late. I beg the Minister not to provide for the research ship or ships another 10 years too late. The Australian Institute of Marine Science needs adequate research ships immediately. Canada has about 14; we have not yet got one. Australia is surrounded by oceans, and marine science is an important study for this country. If we had a marine research ship, which could really be regarded as a scientific laboratory, it could be used not merely by the Institute of Marine Science in Townsville but also by all those in Australia who are studying in this discipline. 
The Minister has spoken about teacher education. We need to be realistic. On all sides it is said Australia has not enough teachers, and now the States are beginning to recruit teachers from overseas. A new concept in teaching, I believe, is necessary. Perhaps we are attracting into teaching about 50 per cent of those people who go through tertiary education. We will not be able to attract much more than that. It becomes a question of vocation. Even if we increase teachers' salaries in order to attract more teachers a law of diminishing return begins, to operate because a lot of people do not want to be teachers, no matter what the salary is. There is some limit. Therefore we must consider using our teaching service as best we can. Teachers should not be librarians; they should not be electronic experts handling electronic equipment in the schools. Australia will have to follow the United States in the direction of having a teacher with various teaching assistants. Headmasters will have to stop being secretaries if they are required to plan education. A great deal more clerical assistance and other expert vocational assistance will have to be given to headmasters and they will need the assistance of teaching aides. A teacher must now be the centre of a convoy of other escorting and assisting persons who can be brought in to act in full time or part time positions. 
It is also time for a new approach to the location of universities. There is much to be said for the establishment of more universities in country areas. The University of New England has very many attractive qualities as a place for study and research. Its location is to be commended because of the absence of distractions. I do not dispute the present location of universities in the capital cities, but it is about time to plan the decentralisation of university education. I do not dispute that Sydney needs the University of New South Wales, the University of Sydney and Macquarie University; nor that Melbourne needs the University of Melbourne, Monash University and the La Trobe University; nor that Perth needs the University of Western Australia and the Murdoch University. But the future development of universities should also be in country areas. For example, in Western Australia a university could be situated at Albany or at Bunbury and in some other States in the larger country towns. After all, in medieval England, Oxford and Cambridge Universities were not established in London; they were placed in the country some way out from the capital city. There is something to be said for that. It would involve certain special expenditure but in turn the location of the university in the country seems to have a desirable effect on both the students and the locality. 
A great deal more has been said in this statement about the quantity and the quality of education which we on this side warmly welcome, but there is not breathing through these papers a philosophy of the equality of educational opportunity. Nor is the Australian Universities Commission noted for a concern to do other than routine things. The Commission has no national philosophy on education. It is apparently quite unconcerned as to which type of person university education is reaching. There is no passion on the part of the Commission to give opportunities to those who at the present time are not getting them. I think we are reaching a point in our educational expenditure when such opportunities should be made available. If expenditure on education is to increase by 15 per cent or 20 per cent a year something will have to be done about educational opportunities for those who are not getting them at present, otherwise we will reproduce the American inverted triangle - the situation of super-education for the minority and the ghetto education for too many people who, because they have not got the certificates, will be treated as nothing and earn nothing much for the rest of their days. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, an action of mine has been misrepresented. On Friday last, in my absence, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement concerning the official documents of the Australian Labor Party. He said that they showed that the education committee of the Australian Labor Party at the Launceston Conference had discharged a motion from Queensland relating to the phasing out of State aid on the ground that it was already covered by the existing policy of the Labor Party for an Australian schools commission. I was the mover of the motion for the discharge. This was stated once before by the Minister and on that occasion I had to correct it as a misrepresentation. Therefore, I reiterate what I said on the previous occasion, that there is no Labor Party policy concerning a schools commission which uses the expression 'the phasing out of educational expenditure for private schools'. What it says is 'educational expenditure according to need'. The minutes show 'that I moved for the discharge of that item. 
A paper from the education committee of the Party does not constitute the minutes, nor does the name 'Queensland' on top of it mean, as the Minister suggested, that the resolution was endorsed by the Queensland Branch of the Labor Party. Alone among the 6 States of the Commonwealth, Queensland forwards to the Federal Conference of the Labor Party every item from every branch in Queensland. More often than not the Queensland delegation votes against those items. It takes the view that every branch has the right of access to the Conference. When my motion to discharge the resolution was moved it was seconded by  Mr Kane  of the Queensland Branch. The terminology used by the education committee, as I pointed out at the Conference, allowed the ambiguity of interpretation which the Minister has picked up. Consequently, without any qualification whatever, I moved that the item be discharged. 
I move: 
That the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972 (No. 20 of 1972), made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910- 1972, be disallowed. 
For 7 months the Government tolerated the existence, on the lawns outside Parliament House, of a tent which was called an Aboriginal embassy'. The Government has since in various debates suggested that the presence of a tent on the lawns outside Parliament is intolerable but nevertheless, the Government tolerated the presence cf this tent on the lawns outside Parliament for 7 months. 
I want to repeat what 1 said once before. The tent which was erected by the people who claimed that they were running an Aboriginal embassy was not the first tent erected as a means of demonstrating on the Aboriginal question outside Parliament House. The first tent which was erected in connection with an Aboriginal demonstration was erected by the Canberra police. Four or five years ago some university students decided to hold a vigil in connection with the rights of Aborigines. The week that they chose for this vigil to go on constantly, day after day and night after night, happened to be both wet and cold. The Canberra police therefore, as a gesture of generosity towards the university students concerned, erected a tent on the lawns outside Parliament House and they put warming appliances at the doorway of the tent. I went over and spoke to the students on a number of occasions, so there is no question about this. The Government did not find the presence of that tent outside Parliament House intolerable. 
The removal of the Aboriginal embassy was, of course, in connection with the South East Asia Treaty Organisation conference when many distinguished foreign visitors came to Australia and the presence of an Aboriginal demonstration of that nature became embarrassing. As a consequence, the Government began to take steps for its removal. We know that this ordinance is not necessary if one wished to remove a tent from the proximity of Parliament. When the case went first before the 
Supreme Court of this Territory the judge in the Supreme Court said that, provided an action was taken in the court, the existing common law enabled the Commonwealth to remove trespassers. 
The Government did not want that legal proceeding in the courts because of the publicity associated with it and it has chosen instead a path which has given it month after month of publicity. When the Government chose to seek to remove the tent again the other night, surreptitiously in the early hours of the morning, it ensured by the very timing of it - in the early hours of the morning - that there would again be adverse publicity for the Government, which was accused of stealth. So, as a means of handling this from the Government's own point of view, the Opposition could not have asked for anything better. Those who have ill-will towards the Government could not have asked for anything better than the way the Government has handled this entire question. 
We are in difficulty about the Aborigines because we know that after all these years of our history - nearly 200 years - it is time there was some sort of effective Aboriginal voice and Aboriginal presence in this national capital. I do not care whether it is in some cultural exhibit manned by Aborigines who can express their way of life; it is time the Aboriginal people were acknowledged in the Australian national capital. 
 I do not shift from the position that the real Aboriginal embassy in this place would be elected Aboriginal members of Parliament, representing their people in this Parliament in precisely the same way as 4 Maori members represent the Maori people in the Parliament of New Zealand. 
It is quite intolerable that we just do not consider this. We have tried to pretend that assimilation will stop them being another race. We have tried to pretend that they are dying out and that all we have to do is smooth the dying pillow. We have tried to pretend anything and everything except that there is a permanent Aboriginal presence in this nation and it should be represented in the Parliament. It is because of that that the Aboriginal embassy was an embarrassment. The people who manned the embassy could not claim to represent the Aboriginal people. They were not elected by them. Some of them were people of full Aboriginal descent. Some were people of part Aboriginal descent and some were people of Islander descent who identified themselves with the Aborigines. Some of them spoke in the jargon of New York black power. Some of them had no idea what the Aborigines in the inland aspire to and some of them had genuine ideas about what the Aborigines in the inland aspire to. But because of these things and because of the need for an Aboriginal presence which the Government subconsciously feels - the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  interjected a little while ago and said: That is what the Minister said; there should be an Aboriginal presence' - the tents were tolerated for 7 months and then disposed of. 
The ordinance is unsatisfactory and it should be disallowed on the ground that it is unsatisfactory. I draw attention to clause 8b. and 8c. of the ordinance. Clause 8b. states: 
An officer of the Department of the Interior authorised in writing by the Minister may, on an application by a person who wishes to conduct a festival, show, fair, circus or carnival, grant to that person a permit to occupy for that purpose a specified area of unleased land belonging to the Commonwealth that is in the City Area, and the permit applies to that person and to all other persons to whom the permit is expressed to apply. 
Permission may be granted for a tent to be erected there for a festival, a show, a fair, a circus or a carnival. The Country Women's Association presumably could run stalls there to raise money for some country town or some country charity. 
Or the Country Party could meet there. Presumably, the Parliament could. We would be like the old witenagemot to meet under the tree. But this ordinance does not give power to permit a tent to be erected there for political purposes. 
Outside the Parliament of Western Australia the Aborigines erected a very beautiful tent and had established a dignified consulate, as they called it, as a means of demonstration. The Government hastens to assure us that people can hold a meeting on the lawns outside Parliament House and that there will not be any denial of the right to demonstrate but that a tent may not be erected there. There may be a tent erected there for a fair, a circus, a carnival, a show or for any of those purposes but no-one has the power in the future to permit a tent to be erected there where the purpose is to demonstrate for Aborigines. Provided that a permit could be granted for the Aborigines, we could say that with the consent of the police or the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  the Aborigines could erect a tent. But they cannot. There is no objection to a tent; there is only an objection to the purpose of a tent. If it is for a fair, a circus or a carnival it is all right but if it is a tent for the purpose of reminding us of the Aboriginal people, it is all wrong. This ordinance does not give even the Minister for the Interior power to grant permission for a demonstration such as was tolerated for 7 months recently. 
Therefore, in this respect that section of the ordinance represents a curtailment of freedom. It represents a curtailment of the freedom of the Minister.  Neither the Minister nor anyone else can give authority for the sort of demonstration that existed in the past. There is no reason why that should be. It is quite foolish for the Minister to think that this ordinance will bind in that way. It would have been wiser to have left himself the power to grant the permission, but he did not do so. It shows a hostility towards anything that can embarrass. It does not matter that the land is occupied by a tent. It is what the tent is for; that is the point. 
Section 8c of the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance reads as follows: 
An officer of the Department of the Interior authorised in writing by the Minister may. by instrument in writing under his hand, certify that land described in the instrument or by reference to a plan on or annexed to the instrument is unleased land that - 
belongs to the Commonwealth: 
is within the City Area; and 
is not within an area for the time being declared by the Minister, by notice published in the Gazette, to be, for the purposes of this Ordinance, a camping area. 
The Minister can delegate power to the officer and the officer may, by instrument in writing, change the definitions of the area. A person is not going to know beforehand what is an area to which this ordinance applies. It can come from an officer by instrument in writing. People can put up their tents somewhere else in Canberra for a demonstration. Then an official, by instrument in writing, can change the definitions of the city area. A person does not know beforehand what the city area is, as he knew under the old law. If a person was putting up a tent he knew he was putting it in the city area. This is not the case now. He can put up the tent and then, by instrument in writing, where he put it can be defined as a city area and as an area which is not a camping area. Therefore a person may not put his tent there. Then the law is shifted to make the offence in this case. I think that this is an unsatisfactory way of drafting an ordinance. This instrument in writing changing the definitions of what is the law and the boundaries of the city applying to the Australian Capita] Territory is an unsatisfactory feature of this ordinance and constitutes another reason why it should be disallowed. 
The Government would be wise to drop this matter. It has been told by the court that, under common law, it has the power to remove trespassers. The area that particularly worries the Government is, without any doubt, the city area. The Government has the power now, by due process of law, to remove any trespassers and it has the power to tolerate, if it likes, the presence of a tent or any other form of demonstration there under the existing law, to terminate it without this ordinance or to permit it without this ordinance which ties the Government's hand and does not give it the power to permit a demonstration for the sort of purpose that existed when that tent was here for 7 months. I think that the Government, which has barged through this whole affair over several weeks in an extremely maladroit way, would be well advised to drop it and to stand by its common law rights which have been declared for it by the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, because the ordinance that it has drafted is thoroughly unsatisfactory. It is an unwise way of doing things, and for that reason it ought to be disallowed. 
I suspect that this ordinance will have a torrid time in the Senate, because the Senate committee which deals with regulations has taken particular exception in the past to this whole process of instruments in writing from officers which create offences or define the field in which offences occur. The Senate has disliked this vague, dragnet kind of definition of delegated powers, and the Government is probably unwise in putting this up anyway. But we have to declare our opinion on it in this House. The opinion that we on this side of the Parliament have formed is that the ordinance should be disallowed. 
There are a number of terrorist movements which may have some bearing upon Australia. We have a combination of religious fanticism and nationalism in several localities - in Ulster, in Croatia and in the Arab territories. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Whitlam's)  be agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What attitude is taken by the Government to the statement on page 8 of the report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for 1970-71, that for some years the Commission has foreshadowed that the restrictions and limitations placed upon its activities would in time make it impossible to secure sufficient revenue to cover the cost of its operations, particularly those functions undertaken in the national interest and that that situation has now been reached. 
At the outset may I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  whether, when he says that Australian aid since 1945 has been $1.8 billion and our percentage of the gross national product devoted to foreign aid at the present time is 1.27 per cent, he is including Papua New Guinea? 
There are some, of course, who hold that colonial responsibility is not the same thing as foreign aid. I am not disposed to dispute the point. It is the devotion of Australian resources to another country. 
Yes. The one weakness which we feel exists in the structure of Australian foreign aid is our national slowness in circumstances of disaster. There was the appalling disaster of the Peru earthquake. Our contribution towards that was negligible. There were 2 disasters in Bangladesh - the tidal wave and then the disaster of the war. I feel that we were tardy in Bangladesh, although less so in the second case than in the first disaster. Recently there has been the disaster in the Philippines. 
Before I touch on this matter I want to say that I am disturbed at what looks like the beginning of a campaign in New Guinea. In the issue for June-July 1972, volume 7, of the magazine 'Quarterly' there is an article by E. K. Fisk and Maree Tait, which seems to be the beginning of a campaign against Australian assistance to Papua New Guinea. It will be quite disastrous if our aid to Papua New Guinea tapers off at the point of self government and independence. I feel that this is where, if anything, Australian aid should be increased. It professes to be a balanced sort of article but it looks like the beginning of a campaign to raise doubts insofar as it suggests that Australian people are beginning to doubt whether this aid should be continued. I do not think any evidence exists of any such doubt in the Australian community. 
The Opposition believes that with the coming of self government and independence generous and substantial aid to Papua New Guinea, both financially and in personnel, should continue. In point of fact it is our policy to create within the 
Department of Foreign Affairs a Division of Pacific Relations and the skilled personnel we hope to accumulate in that division will continue to be available to Papua New Guinea. There could be a civil servant on loan. The personnel would also be available for countries over which there has never been any question of Australian sovereignty, such as Fiji, the Solomons, Samoa, Tonga and others of our neighbours in the Pacific. This, of course, is an aspect of Australian policy which is actually envisaged in the Australian Constitution because after reference to the power over external affairs vested in this Parliament there is mention of power to conduct relations with the islands of the Pacific. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that Australia should own a hospital ship or ships. I am making this as a narrow statement related to disasters. It happens that the disasters among our neighbours have been disasters to maritime powers. If we could have floated into the Peru earthquake disaster a fully functioning hospital it would have been magnificent assistance; similarly in Bangladesh and similarly more recently in the Philippines. Such a ship would have a valuable part of Australia's own defence system. That is to say, it could be a part of the Royal Australian Navy but I would imagine that in circumstances like this which I envisage it would be manned by Red Cross personnel, not necessarily military personnel; but in wartime it could become a ship available for military use. The complete collapse of medical organisation which I saw when I visited Bangladesh made it apparent to me that if we had had such a floating hospital to go into the situation, many of the worst cases would have received speedy treatment. Magnificent work was done by Australia in the medical field. I think very few people realise how outstanding was the work of  Mr Douglas  Sturkey, who was the Australian  Deputy  High Commissioner in Calcutta, in supervising the medical aid which Australia did send - quite speedily - to refugee camps in Calcutta. I compliment the Minister on that aspect of the work of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I believe that this additional facility of a hospital ship would make a very great difference to Australia's ability to give assistance in times of disaster. 
I am not confusing the continuance of foreign aid with the immediate things which you must do in a disaster, but nevertheless our neighbours have repeatedly been plunged into disasters and quite apart from long term assistance Australia has had to give consideration to assistance in times of disaster. I have always paid a very high tribute to what  Sir Paul  Hasluck did in connection with the Bihar famine when he was the Minister for External Affairs. That was adequate assistance. It was adequate to save at least one million lives a year, I should think. Provision was made for the setting up of 6 modern bakeries to convert wheat into bread which people who did not have a wheat-eating tradition could use. It was in contrast to what happened in Calcutta where rice eating people received wheat grain and did not know what to do with it. If it was boiled as they boiled rice it was not a particularly palatable cereal whereas if converted into bread anybody would find it palatable. For these disasters we do need the kind of detailed thinking that was shown in relation to the Bihar famine. 
The appendices presented by the Minister, insofar as they relate to Bangladesh, speak of the availability of a few prosthetists from Australia. When I was in Bangladesh Mujib mentioned that there were 15,000 people who had lost limbs during the fighting and that they simply had no facilities at that stage to give them artificial limbs. The East German Government flew 25 persons to be fitted with artificial limbs in East Germany, but that was an insignificant number in relation to the total number injured. As the people who led the fight for the independence of Bangladesh from Pakistan were mostly students, many of the maimed and limbless were the most skilled people in Bangladesh. Their skills were impeded by lack of artificial limbs to assist them. At that time I asked whether some of the people could be brought out to Australia. I had letters from Australian artificial limb manufacturing firms stating that they could supply the limbs for the whole 15,000 of the limbless whom I had mentioned in my original speech if an order were given to them. I am glad that the Minister has sent personnel to give training in this matter but I feel that a greater sense of urgency would have meant that we would have made a greater contribution in the equipment that was needed. 
I drew another lesson from what I saw of the Bangladesh disaster. We have sent Australian rice to Bangladesh and I wonder whether this has been a wise use of resources. Bangladesh is right next to one of the great rice producers - Burma - and not very far from Thailand, another great rice producer. I believe that if we had made available for the purchase of rice some Australian foreign credits we may have been able to get 10 ship movements of rice from Burma to Bangladesh in the time that it would take for one ship movement from Australia. I think it would have been a more effective use of resources. Again this is a limited question, but I would have wanted Australia to sponsor more shipments than we in fact carried out. 
I am interested in the United Nations Children's Emergency Fund to which the Minister has referred in the appendices. I would like Australia to direct much more systematic thinking to this question. I think we need to put under this body nutritional and educational experts. Can we give more systematic attention to the work of this agency? We should ask whether there is anything we can do to expand its services. 
I saw the ruins of the universities of Bangladesh. They had been ruined because of a deliberate policy. For instance, in the engineering faculties all the engineering equipment had been destroyed. I am afraid that it is true that some of the soldiers of the occupying force - who had originally been members of the national army when Bangladesh was part of Pakistan - had lived out the slogan, 'Bengalis should be Malis'. The slogan means that Bengalis should be reduced to the level of peasants. AH the medical practitioners and lawyers in Dacca had been shot. There had been a policy of destroying university libraries, faculties of engineering and  so on. 
The effect of that policy on Bangladesh can be cumulative. The graduation of people in engineering is impeded and in the future they will have fewer teachers. Many of the university staffs were shot. One night during the curfew 45 members of the staff of Dacca University were simply shot in cold blood in their flats. We should consider bringing out to Australia people who can be trained with our facilities as teachers of engineering. When their own universities are re-equipped they COW. assist in a policy of restoration and expansion of the technical education of their country. Many of them are proficient in English and are able and outstanding people. Amongst their  75-million  population there are many able and outstanding people who could be trained in Australia before going back to staff their own universities. This could be a feature of foreign aid quite conforming with the ideas of the Colombo Plan but much more oriented towards training people who can return to their own countries to train their own countries to train their own people. 
This policy would have an additional effect. They could be trained in engineering, medicine or any of the technical s.ib.jects in Australian universities. They would begin to see the kind of equipment that is necessary for a nation technologically more advanced than their own. I believe ;hat this would then create a demand for the technical equipment in their own countries which would stimulate rising levels of efficiency there. In other words, the experts who are trained here would be able to give intelligent directions. I am grateful that the Minister visited Bangladesh during the crisis there. Possible he underestimates the amount of money and the assistance in other forms that the Australian people would be quite willing to support. We of the Opposition will certainly be willing to support a most generous policy of foreign aid. I am also grateful for the clarity of the Minister's statement and especially grateful for the appendices. I will not profess that I have been able to study them in the time available but I will do so in the ensuing weeks. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
What is the number of Aboriginals who are police constables (trackers) in the Northern Territory Police Force. 
How many are constables other than trackers. 
How many have higher rank than constable. 
What proportion of each rank in the Northern Territory Police Force is Aboriginals. 
Are trackers employed who are not police; if so, how many. 
I do not propose to say very much on the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill (No. 2) 1972, the sole purpose of which is to terminate the existing arrangements in order to clear the way for the substitute proposals of the States Grants (Schools) Act of 1972. To the motion that the State Grants (Schools) Bill 1972 be now read a second time, I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 
I second the amendment. In doing so, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the statement of the Minister for Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson).  It is an important statement from the point of view of the allocation of resources but it is not important from the point of view of any statement of goals. It is like looking out of a train from the guard's van; one can see the scenery as one goes past it. The Government says that it has spent so much on this and so much on that. There is to be $ 14.5m spent. If one takes up all the factors of State expenditure and so on, one sees that about $53m has been spent on Aborigines. This is vastly in advance of expenditure in the past, but it leaves at least 4 fundamental questions unanswered. They have never been answered in this Parliament. So far as I know, they have never been answered by the nation. But they must be answered, and then from this we can arrive at goals which will determine a lot of future expenditure. 
The first question is: Do we recognise the right of the Aborigines to be a distinctive people? Negatively we have been able to see the Aborigines as a distinctive people. The old section 51, paragraph (xxvi), of the Constitution excluded the Commonwealth from the power to legislate for Aborigines. So if we knew for whom we cannot legislate, presumably we could see Aborigines. Paragraph (xxvi) said that the Commonwealth had the power to legislate for 'the people of any race, other than the aboriginal race in any State, for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws'. So, if a person was an Aboriginal the Commonwealth could not legislate for him in the States. But when it came to separate infant mortality statistics or matters like that we always came up against a brick wall. It was said: 'Our policy is assimilation. We do not know who these Aborigines are. They are in part of the general community statistics. We cannot sec them'. 
We arrived at a policy of assimilation which was a vast improvement on the Daisy Bates nervelessness that existed before that. She wrote a disastrous book The Passing of the Aborigines' which gave a couple of generations of Australian administrators the excuse for thinking that they did not need to do anything but smooth the dying pillow. She was quite wrong. She said civilisation is a cloak the 
Aborigines cannot wear. All that she really meant if she had known about the facts was that if they congregated, with their ideas of desert hygiene not suited to stationary populations diseases would wipe them out. That fact has had nothing to do with 'civilisation'; it relates only to the effect of close settlement without sanitation. 
Do we recognise the right of Aborigines to be a distinctive people? If that is so we will have to drop expressions like 'assimilation' which is a vague policy we assume the right to impose on Aboriginal people. We say: This is what we declare is going to happen to you. You are going to be assimilated and you are going to be like us. We never consulted you but, obviously, who on earth could be a better model to be like than us?' That is the idea behind the doctrine of assimilation.  Sir Paul  Hasluck, as the relevant Minister, gave it a more humane touch where he said that assimilation meant Aborigines would live at the same standard and have the same rights and so forth as Europeans. That was an attempt to give content to the policy and avoid prescribing some sort of undefined destiny without hope. The first question is not one of assimilation, it is: Do we recognise their right to be a distinctive people? I suggest that we should declare straightly that Aborigines are distinctive people. They were here before European settlement and they have the right to continue to be distinctive people. 
Secondly, we should ask the question: Will we provide for their representation as a distinctive people? The New Zealanders have provided for the representation of the Maoris in the Parliament as a distinctive people. There are 4 Maori seats in the New Zealand Parliament. There should be Aboriginal seats in the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory. The Commonwealth Parliament cannot prescribe for representation in the States, but it can prescribe for representation in the Northern Territory. Seats must be reserved for Aborigines in the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory and the members for those seats should be elected by Aborigines in the Northern Territory. I believe that we should have a Commonwealth constitutional amendment to provide for Aboriginal representation in the Australian Parliament. Some of us are irritated by self-designated spokesmen of the Aboriginal people. They may be right or they may be wrong in claiming a representative character. They may be saying what the Aboriginal people want said or they may not be expressing those views. Many of them effect Afro hair-dos. They are largely of Pacific Islander descent, wear dark glasses and go around with slogans of the New York Black Power Negroes. 
If one travels through the Northern Territory - such as the Gove Peninsula - and meets Aboriginal people one sees a quite different but very articulate people who are asking for other things. However, if we do not provide for representation for Aboriginal people we have no right to complain about people who constitute themselves as spokesmen. Those people may be of Aboriginal or part Aboriginal descent. If we really want to hear the Aboriginal voice we must provide for Aboriginal representation chosen by Aboriginal people. If we do not, we have no right to complain about Black Power spokesmen whom we all say are really caricaturing the opinions of Aboriginal people. The proper representation of Aboriginal people is important in this Parliament and in the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory. 
The Minister for the Environment, the Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  and I were both members of a select committee which examined the grievances of the Aboriginal people of Yirrkala. I think we were also representatives of this Parliament on the select committee which looked into Aboriginal voting rights. 
That is correct. The Minister was not a member of the select committee which examined the grievances of the Yirrkala people. The important point about those select committees was that the members of them went with interpreters to hear what the Aborigines had to say. Until that time all Aboriginal spokesmen trying to speak to the Commonwealth Government or the Commonwealth Parliament tried to do so very often in English, a language with which they were not familiar and in which they could not express themselves. But when they put their points to interpreters and could speak in their own language, many of them were magnificent orators and what they asked for themselves was always the plainest common sense. Those who wanted to live by fishing asked for assistance in getting fishing boats. Those who wanted to live in the traditional way by hunting asked that Europeans with high powered rifles who could wipe out their game should be excluded from their areas. Those Aborigines lived in a balanced relationship with the creatures they hunt. The weapons that they use help to conserve the species. However, high powered weapons could wipe out the crocodiles and kangaroos in their areas and they would be left with nothing to hunt. Those who had ceased to live in the tribal state and had become fringe dwellers asked about conditions of employment, about the education of their children and about housing. All of them seized the opportunity of speaking effectively to representatives of the Federal Parliament. 
Some of us may remember that Aborigines who had served the Australian Army and the Royal Australian Navy during the war as coast watchers and who had not been paid for 16 years seized the opportunity to make a statement about that and that this action led to their being paid. I make this point because those Aborigines had been saying to welfare officers for 16 years that they had not been paid. Apparently they had not been listened to, either, because their requests had not been transmitted to the Government here. All of this made me realise ho* vital is this question of Aboriginal representation. So the second unanswered question in the Minister's second reading speech is: Will we provide for representation of Aborigines as a distinct people? . 
The third unanswered question is: Will we change the whole course of our history and acknowledge that any rights whatsoever attach to their prior occupancy of Australia? Two mystic theories clashed when we were dealing with the grievances of the Aboriginal people at Gove Peninsula. The crown law people said that all of this land was proclaimed in 1788 as belonging to George III by the grace of God, King of Great Britain and Ireland^ and from that time onwards there lay ownership with the Crown and those to whom the Crown made grants. Of course, that is absolutely as mystic a conception of land ownership as 'the dream time' which is the Aboriginal conception of land ownership. There is George III by the grace of God floating over all the land that he never saw. Captain Phillip stood and read a proclamation on 26th January 1788. It did not matter where Aborigines were in Australia. To Aborigines the reading of the proclamation meant: 'Hereafter you own nothing'. This is a very mystic conception of transfer of ownership. Aborigines say that they own the land for various reasons. They say that the heroes of their culture in the dream time gave it to a tribe. This is no more mystic than George III by the grace of God being entitled to it. But of course the mysticism of the George III theory was backed by superior force. However, I think we do not adhere to titles based simply on superior force at this stage of our history. We are beginning to acknowledge that there were people with a prior occupancy and therefore they have some rights. I do not see that I can practically assert that some descendant of the original tribe in Sydney owns all of Sydney, but there are large areas of land in Australia still vested in the Crown which are reserved to Aborigines and where there is a distinctive tribal ownership discernible. 
In that rather tragic case before the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory it appears that if the Aborigines had had the forethought to run a wire along the land and to draw a boundary they would have received the same sorts of rights as a squatter has, only that they would have been better entitled as squatters from time immemorial. It is very unfortunate that nobody legally advised them about the mystic powers of wire. Apart from conducting electricity apparently it can conduct also the ownership of land. It would be pretty shoddy of us to say that because they did not draw off a boundary, they are not to own anything; we were lucky that they never knew that. In point of fact, none of the lawyers in the courts knew that until they heard such a legal position asserted by the judge. There are many areas where we ought to acknowledge their ownership of land. 
Please let us face the fact that we are the only people on God's green earth who have not acknowledged to the original inhabitants of the land any title to any part of it. We criticise South Africa. South Africa acknowledges 400,000 square miles of indigenous ownership. We criticise Rhodesia. Rhodesia acknowledges nine-tenths of the land under indigenous ownership. But we acknowledge nothing as being under indigenous ownership. The terms the Government has set out under which the Aborigines may operate some stations economically seems to us to be inadequate. What is more, in this matter they do not behave like land sharks. For instance, the Gurindji people live on part of the Vestey station. I understand that station covers 8,750 square miles. The Gurindji claim is for a very small area of about 25 square miles around Wave Hill Station, and apparently Vestey is prepared to give more than that. One of the matters that has become rather silenced in public discussion is whether Vestey did or did not make that grant. But if we can acknowledge a Crown ownership I think we. can acknowledge also a dream time ownership, a discernible tribal ownership of land. I think that is what we should get around to. 
It is very unfortunate from the Aboriginal point of view that we were not fighting the French in Australia when Australia was colonised. George III was fighting the French in North America and he needed the Indians as allies. So he entered into all sorts of treaties which still have the force of law today acknowledging Red Indian ownership of land. This has been of immense benefit in this century, especially when oil has been discovered on the land. One tribe got $33m for oil. As a basic legal concept this has been transferred to Alaska. The Government of the United States is preparing to pay $500m for certain land use - a payment to the original people, the Eskimos and the Red Indians there. But George III did not need an alliance with the Aborigines in Australia and so no treaty was entered into with them to acknowledge their land rights. 
My final point is a very important one. Will we acknowledge the right of the Aborigines to an education in their tongue. Very discreetly and delicately we do not acknowledge 2 points of the International Labour Organisation Convention. They are, firstly, the right of an indigenous people to the ownership of land and, secondly, the right of an indigenous people to an education in their own tongue. For a long time, for instance, at Hermannsburg Mission the Aboriginal children obtained a primary education in the Arunta tongue, and they learnt English as a second language later on. Albert Namatjira went through such an education. But for a long while there was no Commonwealth assistance because this was contrary to assimilation and education had to be in English. It did not matter even that the mission could prove that this was a very effective way of teaching English. The medium of instruction was not in English and they were financially punished for that. The mission took the point of view that a mother tongue is the language of the heart; it is the best way to speak to a young child, and I believe that in many more areas we ought to be encouraging the survival of Aboriginal languages by giving a primary education to Aboriginal children in their own tongue. We would find that is the most effective basis for transferring later to the English language. 
Can we not have a statement of goals? Will no government have the courage to say: 'We will reduce Aboriginal neo-natal. infant and child mortality to the European levels'? Once a government declares that it has really taken the problems on. It will have to SOlve the problems of housing, medical care, adult education, hygiene and all sorts of things, but it nails its flag to the mast. This Government once made such a statement in relation to the abolition of tuberculosis in the European community. It nailed its flag to the mast and now tuberculosis hospitals are obsolete. The government had to pay a man a full wage while he was being treated. Many consequential policies followed the decision but the government got rid of tuberculosis. The only sufferers from tuberculosis today are Aborigines. If we say boldly: 'We will eliminate the diseases of yaws, hook worm, tuberculosis and leprosy from the Aboriginal community as well as reduce the neonatal, infant and child mortality', we will have nailed our flag to the mast; we will have adopted goals and all our expenditure and all our policies will be forced to conform. The achievements can be tested for the goals will have been defined. If we say that our policy is assimilation and ask an administrator what he has done to assimilate the Aborigines today, there is no answer to the question because it is a senseless question and it is an imprecise objective. Let us have these definitive objectives that will force us to achieve real advance. Let us adopt goals and then measure the resources we need to make available to attain those goals. 
 I would have thought that the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  as a. distinguished member of the Country Party, might have spent some time on one of the major problems of Australian education affecting the people he particularly represents - the farmers. One of the most notable developments one finds if one travels through the country is that following the vicissitudes the farming industry has experienced over recent years many sons of the farming families, and daughters too, do not want to continue with the vocation of farming. They are looking for a form of education, and the assistance to get a form of education, which will enable them to transfer to other occupations. 
Yes, but a person does not get a scholarship just because he is a farmer. This is a sociological problem, not just an educational one. 
You would give a scholarship to them all? That is fine, 1 presume, but when we. are dealing with a farming community there are problems with boarding the students, and there are many other problems. The problems of isolated children really apply to a large, part of the farming community. While I do not profess to have any answers to this problem I think it is really one of our distinctive Australian problems, and 1 certainly want to address myself, if 1 ever have responsibility, towards solving that problem. 
I want to say something about science and our national science policy, which has not had very much attention. We on this side of the House are beginning to suspect that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation needs to be liberated from a public service approach. We are also beginning to suspect that there has to be very wide consultation with scientific personalities and scientific communities in Australia to find what is the best way of formulating a national science policy. So many of our policies seem to have just grown and to have been adopted ad hoc. There are both lessons and warnings in Canada and the United States which need to be studied and which need to be applied. We cannot say that the quality of sciencific advice over the years has been what it should have been when we consider how important oceanographic studies are for a country like Australia and how very recently has action been taken in this field with the establishment of the Institute of Marine Science at Townsville and the very tardy, belated and inadequate decision about providing ships for oceanographic research. We are apparently to get one ship. If we paid attention to the. subject equivalent to that paid in the United States of America we would probably provide 3 or 4 ships. However I do not want to flog an issue which has begun to be solved with the provision of a ship. I merely say that it is quite impossible, to imagine that the scientific community of Australia would have advised that we should have postponed the acquisition of an adequate vessel at this late stage, in scientific history. There seems to be a failure in communication between the scientific community and the Government, and that has to be remedied. There must be some new means by which the scientific community may tender to the Government advice which represents the best thinking of the scientific community on fields of research. 
The honourable member for Maranoa, who was just speaking on the subject of education, could not decide in the course of his speech whether the application of means tests was a good thing or a bad thing, so he ended up with the rather simplistic approach that whatever means test the Commonwealth Government has decided upon, however belatedly, was a good thing, and that anything it had not decided on was a bad thing. When one considers that the greater public schools of Australia have been going since the 1870s and the 1880s, to say that they are dependent on a comparatively recent system of grants and that if these grants were not made they could not exist seems to be rather a falsification of the educational history of Australia. The question of their existence is not a real issue. The question is: With our rising allocation of resources to education what amounts should go to the different parts of the national education system? Not one word has fallen from the Tips of the honourable member for Maranoa to justify a flat rate per capita grant for the wealthiest school and the poorest private school, except that he says that that is what the schools want. It would be a new criterion for Commonwealth governments to adopt that all the Government will give to anybody is what he wants. Of course I suppose the wealthier schools would want everything they could get. But the question is whether it is the most intelligent allocation of resources. 
However, 1 want to speak about a part of education which is very important and which seems to encounter a great deal of resistance from a mumpsimus-minded conservatism, and that is pre-school education. 1 have received letters suggesting that anybody who favours pre-school education favours latch-key parents and latch-key children and that it is only a question of parents wanting to evade their obligations. Pre-school education can be very vital in establishing a child's mental, nervous and moral stability. It can also be compensatory education for under-privileged children, as anybody who has travelled through the Northern Territory and seen Aboriginal children in the pre-schools of the Northern Territory will testify. What is more, preschool education may be educationally very significant in that disabilities from which children suffer may be detected early. Dyslexia is perfectly compatible with extremely high intelligence. Children who are dyslectic and have extremely high intelligence can conceal from their teachers for a long period the fact that they are not really reading. They can evade by their intellectual skills the correct diagnosis that they have an educational problem. Dyslexia can be cured. 
The existence of the pre-school system of education enables quite a lot of the disabilities of children to be detected. The honourable member for Maranoa in speaking of the Commonwealth scholarships system failed to note the dissatisfaction with the system on the part of the people who devised it. They have endeavoured to escape from the Scylla of cramming - it is not an examination in the ordinary sense - but they have not escaped the Charybdis of the sociological and family condition of a child. A child with verbal manipulative skills, with a family background of developed conversation, approaches an examination which diagnoses those verbal skills with a great advantage. But that does not make him more intelligent, nor does it meant that he is the one who is most worthy to have a secondary education or to go on to tertiary education. 
The Australian Council for Educational Research which devised the test, I would remind the honourable member, has recently made a study of the subject. I again stress that  Sir Robert  Menzies in introducing the system said in effect that the Government desired this scholarship system to give a secondary education to those who otherwise would not have got it. Research has established that the system gives a secondary education in about 95 per cent of instances to those who would otherwise not have got it. In this respect it contrasts violently with the system of scholarships in the United Kingdom which really does give a secondary education to those who otherwise would not have got it. These are real problems and I will not say that swift solutions are available to them. None of us in any of these educational questions can regard himself as having arrived at a final solution. Nothing is more certain than that what we are doing now will have been radically changed over the next 10 years and the real purpose of the debate ought to be to explore the best methods and not just blindly to say that whatever is being done is the best of all possible policies. 
I ask the Minister for External Territories or the Prime Minister - whichever is relevant on this subject - whether, with the consent of the Government of Papua New Guinea, it can be guaranteed that Australian action will be so effective that nobody can starve. The statements being made are that between 50,000 and 130,000 people are likely to starve. I feel that the concern of the House is not about assistance but about starvation and whether the action proposed can prevent any such disaster occurring to anybody. 
I ask the Minister for External Territories a question. Can the Minister inform me what is the present state of the threatened crisis in the Highlands of New Guinea? 
Firstly, the Opposition regrets the unavoidable absence of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  who is unable to be present because of a bereavement in the family. We would like to express our sympathy to the Minister in his bereavement and to say that we understand why he is not here, much as we regret his absence which of course means his inability to explain clauses of the Bill that we will be discussing. However, that cannot be helped and we would like to say that we consider the reasons for his absence to be entirely sufficient and deeply regrettable. 
To the motion that the Bill be now read a second time, I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the House, while not refusing a second reading lo the Bill, is of the opinion: (a) that the Commonwealth Government should take the initiative to establish Child Care Centres to meet the needs of working mothers, and should do this on a basis of priorities, to give maximum advantage to a maximum number of families, rather than leave the provision of this service to the chance interest of employers and local authorities, and (b) that Child Care Centres should be within the province of the Department of Education and Science, and should be part of a pre-school system developed progressively throughout the nation'. 
I think it is clear enough what we members of the Opposition feel is a weakness in the Bill. In some ways, it reminds one of the beginnings of education in Britain. Nobody would have opposed Shaftesbury's Ragged Schools, but they were hardly a substitute for a national education Act which came later. Nobody would want to oppose the development of these sorts of ad hoc child care centres attached to industries where the employers perhaps are enlightened enough to want them or are competing for the labour of married women and want to create this as an additional attraction. But, in the words of our amendment, the Opposition feels that the Commonwealth should be taking the initiative to establish child care centres to meet the needs of working mothers and should do this on a basis of priorities, instead of leaving it to the chance enlightenment of various employers or local authorities. 
In the Committee stage of the Bill, too, we have a number of amendments to propose, all of which are designed to strengthen what one might call the standards of the Bill; especially, for instance, to clause 11. Clause 11 provides, in sub-clause (2.): 
The rate of  a  grant payable under this section in respect of  a  child care centre is an amount per quarter equal to the sum of the following amounts: 
There is then laid down a long formula. We believe that sub-clauses (2.) and (3.) should be omitted and a new sub-clause (2.) should be inserted which would provide: 
The rate of a grant payable under this section in respect of a child care centre is an amount necessary to staff centres at standards acceptable to the Child Care Standards Committee. 
In other words, we want to make this Child Care Standards Committee really authoritative in the legislation. When I am explaining some of the major amendments in the Committee stage of the Bill, I will stress those points. We believe that this Child Care Standards Committee should also meet certain requirements. For instance, clause 14 (1.) at present provides: 
The Minister may establish a committee, to be known as the Child Care Standards Committee, which shall consist of such number of members as the Minister thinks fit. 
Clause 14 then goes on to lay down the functions of the Committee. We would like to be very clear about this. We shall move, in the Committee stage, for the substitution of the following sub-clause: 
The Minister shall appoint persons with qualifications in pre-school education, pediatricians, psychologists, educationalists and child psychiatrists. 
Our proposed new sub-clause (IB.) states: 
Members of the Child Care Standards Committee shall be appointed for 3 years and be eligible for re-appointment. 
We also propose a new clause 18 which states: 
Members of committees established under section 16 of this Act - which sets up various subcommittees -  which sets up various sub-committees-  shall be appointed by the Minister on the recommendation of the Child Care Standards Committee and shall hold office for a period to be iciermined by the Minister on the advice of the Child Care Standards Committee. 
We have taken the trouble to specify the qualifications of the members of the Child Care Standards Committee - the professions from which they will come - whereas the proposals of the Government do not specify them, because we are very concerned about the quality of any Commonwealth action in this field. In our view, a child care centre is not an industrial convenience; it is part of a national education system. This is why we want the jurisdiction of the Department of Education and Science, not the jurisdiction of the Department of Labour and National Service, to be over these centres. 
The action of the Government, of course, is due to a change in the labour pattern in Australia. Thirty-five per cent of the married women of Australia are now working and 25 per cent of the married women of Australia who are working have children under the age of 6 years. The Minister for Labour and National Service pointed this out in his second reading speech, lt seems to us that there are some dangers in the whole Australian pattern of labour. The industrial revolution in Britain was made possible by shifting peasants, very often displaced by the enclosure movement, into the factories. We have been shifting peasants from the Macedonian hills and flying them to Australia to work in Wollongong factories. As Professor Dunphy of the University of New South Wales pointed out in his Boyer address over the radio not so long ago, we are thereby repeating the experience of the English industrial revolution. 
These people do not have experience in trade unionism. They have not taken action against their conditions, where they are unsatisfactory, through trade union action, but they have taken action with their feet: they have walked out of the factories. They go to other jobs as soon as they become experienced in the country. There has developed a tendency to obtain a labour force either from inexperienced peasants imported under the Commonwealth immigration scheme - Professor Dunphy quoted an employer as saying to him: 'If new Australians cease to come in, where will we get our labour for these sorts of industries?' - or, as an alternative from married women who go into industry, even if they have young families, because of the sheer need for a double income in the circumstances in which the lower income groups find themselves. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service said very carefully that he made no moral evaluation of the fact that women go into industry. Of course, if one makes a moral evaluation, one may have to investigate what are the factors that are forcing them to go into industry. For instance, one may find that the Australian structure of hire purchase, which I think very largely operates at usurious rates of interest and from which the Commonwealth Banking Corporation quite wrongly has been excluded when it could have been used as a weapon to keep down the cost of hire purchase credit, is a factor pushing people to obtain a second income in the borne. But 1 do not want to quarrel about that. 
This legislation represents a Commonwealth incursion into what we regard as a field of education as well as child care. In other amendments which we are proposing we are specifying that these centres should be conducted on standards which are worthy of the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth never developed any pre-school structure in the Australian Capital Territory on an ad hoc basis, and in our opinion it has no right to go into the States or the factories of this country and establish any of these centres on an ad hoc basis either. They must be established on a completely scientific basis. That is why we want the Commonwealth not to be merely tagging behind like somebody saying: 'We are to start a centre and we have done certain things that qualify for the grant'. We want the Commonwealth to take its responsibility in society. Here is an emerging problem - the problem of women working in industry - and the Commonwealth has to take the initiative to establish child care centres where there is the greatest need. Suppose somebody employing a great number of married women or a local government authority does not happen to be interested in developing child care centres. Under this legislation there will be no Commonwealth action in the field. The Commonwealth comes in as a secondary and derivative force. In our view it should come in as an initiating force, examining where the needs are greatest. 
An interesting constitutional question is involved in all this: If this is an exercise of power over labour, where does the Commonwealth get the power? The Commonwealth has no power over direction and conditions of labour. This has been rejected at a number of referendums. The Commonwealth, of course, has a power to grant educational benefits, and that is why we believe this power should be firmly founded by taking action under the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science. Although I am not suggesting that anybody is particularly likely to challenge it, we do not think that as an intervention in industry under some purported industrial power the 
Commonwealth action is soundly based. That is an additional reason for adopting the approach which we desire. 
I will be speaking on various of our amendments in the Committee stage of the Bill, and consequently I will not elaborate on those points now. I simply come back to the point that, firstly, we believe the Commonwealth should take the initiative, beginning in areas where there is the greatest need, to assist most mothers. Secondly, we believe that the standards should be those which are worthy of the Commonwealth. That is why we propose that the persons sitting on the committees which will determine the standards are of the highest qualifications. That is the sort of committee we want to safeguard the interests of the children. That is the purport of our amendments. That would be the approach of a Labor government in this matter. We believe it ought to be the approach of any Commonwealth government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is the amendment seconded? 
I formally move the 18 amendments which have been circulated in my name. They refer to clauses 4, 11, 12, 14, 18, 20 and 21 which read in part: 
Clause 4.  4. (1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears - child care' means the care of pre-school aged children at  a  time or times during the day when they are not being cared for in their own homes or  in  the homes of other persons; child care centre' means a place where child care is provided for only those children who are residing in their own homes; eligible organisation' means - 
an organisation (other than an organisation conducted or controlled by, or by persons appointed by, the Government of the Commonwealth or of a State) that is carried on otherwise than for the purpose of profit or gain and is determined by the Minister to be an eligible organisation for the purposes of this Act; 
a local governing body; or 
the trustees for the time being under a trust established for charitable or benevolent purposes, being a trust in relation to which the Minister has determined that the trustees constitute an eligible organisation for the purposes of this Act, and includes - 
the trustee or trustees under a trust established by an organisation referred to in paragraph (a) of this definition or by a local governing body; and 
a corporation established by such an organisation or by a local governing body; 
Clause 11. 
(1) The Minister may, in his discretion, on behalf of the Commonwealth, make a grant of moneys to an eligible organisation, in respect of each child care centre operated by the organisation at the rate ascertained in accordance with this section. 
The rate of a grant payable under this section in respect of a child care centre is an amount per quarter equal to the sum of the following amounts: 
in respect of each 10 places or part of 10 places at that child care centre filled on the specified day in that quarter by children under the age of 3 years - an amount equal to the prescribed proportion of the amount of salary or wages payable during that quarter to one nurse who is employed at that child care centre and is specified by that child care centre for the purposes of this paragraph; 
in respect of each 20 places, or part of 20 places, in excess of the first 20 places at that child care centrefilled on the specified day in that quarter by children of or above the age of 3 years - an amount equal to the prescribed proportion of the amount of salary or wages payable during that quarter to one nurse who is employed at that child care centre and is specified by that child care centre for the purposes of this paragraph; 
if fifteen or more places at that child care centre are filled on the specified day in that quarter by children of or above the age of 3 years - an amount equal to the prescribed proportion of the amount of salary or wages payable during that quarter to one teacher who is employed at that child care centre and is specified by that child care centre for the purposes of this paragraph; 
if more than the prescribed number of places at that child care centre are filled on the specified day in that quarter by children of or above the age of 3 years and the Minister, in his discretion, determines that an amount should be payable under this paragraph - an amount equal to the prescribed proportion of the amount of salary or wages payable during that quarter to so many of the teachers who are employed at that child care centre as the Minister determines. (3.) Notwithstanding anything in the last preceding sub-section, for the purposes of calculating an amount under that sub-section in respect of a quarter, the salary or wages payable to a particular nurse or teacher shall not be taken into account more than once in respect of that quarter. (4.) For the purposes of this section, the number of places at a child care centre filled by children on a day shall be calculated by ascertaining the number of hours during which each of those children attends at that child care centre on that day, by adding together the numbers so ascertained and by dividing the result by 8. (5.) lit this section - nurse' means a person who has - 
the prescribed qualifications and experience in connexion with nursing; or 
such qualifications and experience as. in the opinion of the Minister, are equivalent lo the qualifications and experience so prescribed; quarter' means the period of 3 months commencing on the first day of January, the first day of April, the first day of July or the first day of October in any year; salary or wages', in relation to a nurse or a teacher, means salary or wages at the rate fixed by an award, order, determination or agreement made or having effect under a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or, if no such rale is applicable, the rate of salary or wages determined by the Minister; teacher* means a person who has such qualifications as are recognised by the Australian Pre-school Association as being sufficient for a pre-school teacher; the specified day', in relation to a quarter, means a day in that quarter specified by the Minister, nol being a day that is a public holiday or a school holiday. 
Clause 12.  (I.) In this section - child in -.pedal need' means - 
a child other than a child who normally resides with both parents in the same household; 
a child either of whose parents commenced to reside permanently in Australia for the first time within three years before the date of the application for the enrolment of the child at the child care centre concerned; 

 a child either of whose parents is a contributor in respect of whom section 82s of the National Health Act 1953-1971 applies or is a person in respect of whom a determination under section 82u of that Act is in force; or 
a child either of whose parents is sick or incapacitated; (2.) The Minister may, in his discretion, on behalf of the Commonwealth, make a grant of moneys to an eligible organisation, in respect of each child care centre operated by that organisa tion, at the rate of an amount per week ascertained in accordance with the formula ab -f cd, where - a is an amount determined by the Minister in relation to children who have not attained the age of 3 years, not exceeding the prescribed amount; b is a number calculated by ascertaining the number of hours during which each child in special need, being a child who has not attained the age of 3 years, attends at the child care centre during that week and by adding together the numbers so ascertained: c is an amount determined by the Minister in relation to children who have attained the age of 3 years, not exceeding the prescribed amount; and 
Clause 14.  (lj The Minister may establish a committee, to be known as the Child Care Standards Committee, which shall consist of such number of members as the Minister thinks fit. 
Clause 18. 
A member of a committee shall be appointed by the Minister and holds office during the Minister's pleasure. 
Clause 20.  (i.) A grant under this Act may be made upon such terms and conditions, nol inconsistent with this Act, as the Minister thinks lit. (2.) Before a grant is made under this Act, the Minister may require the grantee to enter into an agreement with respect to the terms and conditions upon which the grant is to be made and to give security for the carrying out of the agreement. (3.) An agreement under the last preceding subsection may include provision for the repayment of the whole or part of the grant to the Commonwealth in the event of a breach of the agreement. (4.) An agreement under this section relating to a grant under Part II. or Part HI. shall include a condition that the child care centre in respect of which the grant is payable - 
shall accept applications for the enrolment of- 
children in special need, within the meaning of section 12 of this Act; and 
children whose circumstances are such that, in the opinion of the Minister, the children are in special need of child care, in priority to applications relating to other children; and 
shall provide child care on such days and during such hours as the Minister determines. 
Clause 21.  (1.) The Minister may, either generally or otherwise as provided by the instrument of delegation, by writing under his hand, delegate to the Secretary to the Department of Labour and National Service all or any of his powers  under  this Act, except this power of delegation. 
I move: 
In clause 4, in the definition 'child care', omit 'in their own homes or in the homes of other persons', insert 'in their ordinary place of residence'. 
In clause 4, in the definition 'eligible organisation', omit '(other than an organisation conducted or controlled by, or by persons appointed by, the Government of the Commonwealth or of a State)'. 
In clause 4, after paragraph (a) of the definition of 'eligible organisation', insert the following paragraph: (aa) an organisation conducted or controlled by. or by persons appointed by, the Government of the Commonwealth.'. 
In clause 4, in paragraph (d) of the definition 'eligible organisation', after 'established', insert by or under the law of the Government of the Commonwealth or of a State or'. 
In clause 11, sub-clause (1.), omit 'ascertained in accordance with this section', insert necessary to meet its recurring cost'. 
In clause 11, omit sub-clauses 2 and 3, insert the following sub-clause: (2.) The rate of a grant payable under this section in respect of a child care centre is an amount necessary to staff centres at standards acceptable to the Child Care Standards Committee.'. 
In clause 11, sub-clause (4.), omit 'ascertaining the number of hours during which each of those children attends at that child care centre on that day, by adding together the numbers so ascertained and by dividing the result by eight', insert 'a formula specified by the Child Care Standards Committee and approved by the Minister'. 
In clause 11, sub-clause (5.) in paragraph (b) of the definition 'nurse', omit 'in the opinion of the Minister, are equivalent to the qualifications and experience so prescribed', insert 'are acceptable to the Child Care Standards Committee and approved by the Minister'. 
In clause 11, sub-clause (5.), in the definition 'salary or wages', omit 'or, if no such rate is applicable, the rate of salary or wages determined by the Minister', insert 'as determined by the Public Service Board and approved by the Minister'. 
In clause 12, sub-clause (1.), after paragraph (d), insert the following paragraph: 
a child who suffers from physical or mental handicap or other disability;'. 
In clause 12, sub-clause (2.), page 7, omit Minister' (twice occurring), insert 'Child Care Standards Committee'. 
In clause 14, sub-clause (1.), omit 'may', insert 'shall'. 
In clause 14, after sub-clause (1.), insert the following sub-clauses: (1a.) The Minister shall appoint persons with qualifications in pre-school education, pediatricians, psychologists, educationalists and child psychiatrists. (1b.) Members of the Child Care Standards Committee shall be appointed for 3 years and be eligible for re-appointment.'. 
In clause 18, omit the clause, insert the following clause: 
Members of committees established under section 16 of this Act shall be appointed by the Minister on the recommendation of the Child Care Standards Committee and shall hold office for a period to be determined by the Minister on the advice of the Child Care Standards Committee.'. 
In clause 20, sub-clause (1.), omit 'as the Minister thinks fit', insert 'as the Minister determines upon the recommendations of the Child Care Standards Committee'. 
In clause 20, at the end of the clause, add the following sub-clause: (5.) Upon the closure of a child care centre such property as has been provided by the Commonwealth shall remain the property of the Commonwealth.'. 
In clause 21, sub-clause (1.), omit 'Secretary to the Department of Labour and National Service', insert 'Secretary to the Department of Education and Science'. 
After clause 21, insert the following new clause: 21a. The Minister shall as soon as possible after the close of each financial year lay before each House of Parliament a report on the administration and operation of this Act.'. 
As the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  has stressed that this scheme breaks new ground and is experimental, I am surprised that there is no provision in the measure for an annual report to Parliament as to how it is operating. Therefore I have moved the amendment to include a new clause 21a so  that a report will be tabled. 
A minor amendment, but nevertheless an important one, which I have moved is for the provision that upon the closure of a child care centre such property as has been provided by the Commonwealth shall remain the property of the Commonwealth. The continued existence of some of these places may be doubtful and the Opposition feels that that needs to be satisfied. Clause 21 of the Bill provides that the Minister has power to delegate all his powers - except the power of delegation - to the Secretary of the Department of Labour and National Service. The Opposition believes that this power of delegation should be exercised in favour of the Secretary not of the Department of Labour and National Service but of the Department of Education and Science. 
Clause 18 contains specifications about the members of a committee to be established under this Part. Various committees will do work presumably for the Child Care Standards Committee. The Opposition wishes to specify that members of committees established under section 16 of the Act shall be appointed by the Minister on the recommendation of the Child Care Standards Committee - which, as I have mentioned, we will ensure is a scientific and qualified body - and that they shall hold office for a period to be determined by the Minister on the advice of the Child Care Standards Committee. The Opposition is not happy about the approach which puts this matter under the Department of Labour and National Service. We want to safeguard the standards of concern for the children. 
I also draw attention to the amendment to clause 14. As it stands, clause 14 reads: 
(1.) The Minister may establish a committee, to be known as the Child Care Standards Committee, which shall consist of such number of members as the Minister thinks fit. (2.) The functions of the Committee are - 
to give advice to the Minister and to eligible organizations in relation to standards to be maintained in the construction and equipment of child care centres and in the service provided in child care centres; and 
to give advice to the Minister on any other matter referred to the Committee by him in connexion with the administration of this Act. 
We believe this must be spelt out in a way which will safeguard the interests of the children much more clearly than that. That is why we have moved the addition of the following new sub-clauses to clause 14:  (1a.) The Minister shall appoint persons with qualifications in pre-school education, pediatricians, psychologists, educationalists and child psychiatrists.  (1b.)  Members of the Child Care Standards Committee shall be appointed for three years and be eligible for re-appointment.'. 
We believe that our amendment if accepted, will safeguard the standards of the Child Care Standards Committee and will ensure that the standards that it adopts are likely to be educationally sound and scientifically valid. 
We believe also that there should be inserted in clause 12 (1.) a new paragraph (e). There are various formulas for calculating the number of children who are receiving assistance and this leads to a mystic formula that the amount per week ascertained to run the organisation be accordance with the formula ab + cd. Clause 12 (2.) continues: 
. where - a is an amount determined by the Minister in relation to children who have not attained the age of three years . . . b is a number calculated by ascertaining the number of hours during which each child in special need . . . attends at the child care centre . . . c is an amount determined by the Minister in relation to children who have attained the age of 3 years . . . d is a number calculated by ascertaining the number of hours during which each child in special need, being a child who has attained the age of 3 years, attends at the child care centre . . . 
Our tenth amendment seeks to insert in subclause (1.) after paragraph (d) the following paragraph: 
a child who suffers from physical or mental handicap or other disability; 
These children need to be considered. So we have spelt out this type of child as being one who comes within the need of special care. 
In clause 11, lines 2 and 3 on page 7, we seek the deletion of the words 'or, if no such rate is applicable, the rate of salary or wages determined by the Minister' and the insertion of the words 'be as determined by the Public Service Board and approved by the Minister'. We feel that this is analagous to other sections of people employed by the Commonwealth or whose employment is affected by decisions of the Comwealth. In clause 11, between lines 27 to 30, we believe that the following words should be omitted:  ascertaining the number of hours during which each of those children attends at that child care centre on that day, by adding together the numbers so ascertained and by dividing the rate by eight'. 
Our amendment proposes to insert the words:  a formula specified by the Child Care Standards Committee and approved by the Minister.' 
We dislike the tendency of the Government to disappear into the realms of mathematics. We would rather have the human decision about the standard to be determined by the Child Care Standards Committee and approved by the Minister, 
In clause 11 we seek to have struck out sub-clauses (2.) and (3.), which are terribly wordy, and to insert this simple proposal:  (2.) The rale of a grant payable under this section in respect of a child care centre is an amount necessary to staff centres at standards acceptable to the Child Care Standards Committee. 
In another place in clause 11 where there is one of these formulas we feel that what ought to be specified is the amount 'necessary to meet its recurring cost'. I have outlined the amendments to clause 11. The purport of the other amendments is to make sure that there is direct Commonwealth responsibility in this matter. As I have said before, we dislike the sort of derivative or secondary action that the Commonwealth takes in a matter as important as this. For the reasons I have put I have moved the 18 amendments en globo. 
I thank the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  for disagreeing with the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  The Minister specified that these amendments, which related to the standards of the Child Care Standards Committee - the educational qualifications of its members - were worthy of respect and would be considered and could be implemented under the existing legislation.  The  honourable member for Wentworth has chosen to disagree with those parts. However, nobody has mentioned our proposed addendum to the Bill in clause 2Ja  -  that there be furnished annually a report to Parliament. With a holy light in their eyes honourable members have been referring to socialism. This is a social action of the Commonwealth Government. It is a Government action and, by the standards of Cobden which are probably similar to those of the honourable member for Wentworth, it is socialism if the Government does anything at all especially in relation to children in the factories. It was one of his charges against Shaftesbury when Shaftesbury had some provisions about protecting children in the factories that it was socialism. That does not answer anything. If there is anything sinister about a Ph.D., this Government in conjunction with Slate governments in spending $896m on universities over the next 3 years and if university training is a disqualification, is doing something which has no purpose. It is quite amazing. 
However, we are not suggesting that every staff member at kindergartens, pre-schools and child care centres should have a Ph.D. It might not be a disqualification if some of them have it. A person is not necessarily an idiot if he ls a Ph.D. The point is that we desire the standards of the child care committee which is to determine how these places are nin to be set by experts in the education of young children - psychiatrists and paediatricians, who I understand have medical qualifications. Their qualifications would be germane to the work that they would be doing. One can caricature this by saying that we are proposing that everybody on this Committee have a Ph.D. which would be as scrupulous a method of debate as if 1 were to suggest that all the honourable member for Wentworth wanted staffing the committee were Squeers and Sarey Gamp. This would be a caricature of the viewpoint that the honourable member really has but no more a caricature of the viewpoint than the honourable member chose to attribute to this side of the Committee. We do not dispose of what we are saying about the standard of this Committee by referring to Ph.Ds. I thank the Minister for noting that some of these sug gestions could actually be implemented under existing legislation and he proposes to draw attention to our suggestions. 
I am sorry that the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is not here. 
At the outset I would like to ask him a question. There is what appears to be a disparity between the recommendations of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education and the second reading speech of the Minister on the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3). In the recommendations of the Commission on Advanced Education at page 65 in paragraph 5.38 this statement is made: 
From the information supplied to us by the colleges in their submissions for 1973-75, from additional information supplied by the Victoria Institute of Colleges for colleges in Victoria, and from evidence about average cast prices for books and periodicals obtained from colleges, universities and the British and American international price indices, it was calculated that a grant  of  the order of $9.25m would be needed, to remedy existing library deficiencies. This figure is conservative since the Library Committee, in calculating average prices, adopted the lower rather than the higher estimates. Because the colleges would be unable to cope with a grant of this magnitude in the way of supplying supporting services, the Commission recommends: That the Commonwealth Government provide a sum of $5m to be made available to the States on the basis of need and on the advice of the Commission, for the development of library materials in colleges of advanced education (Recommendation No. 21). 
The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
The Commission on Advanced Education has drawn attention to the particular needs of libraries in colleges of advanced education and this Bill provides for additional assistance for these libraries. Over and above the unmatched grant for the libraries of $500,000 as has been provided in the previous triennia the Commonwealth will make available up to a further Jim, subject to a matching contribution from the States. The effect is to make available for library purposes an additional $2. 5m providing that States contribute Sim. The allocation of these funds between institutions will be determined by the Minister on the advice of the Commission. 
It appears to me that this is not much more than a quarter of what appears the optimum sum, and it appears to be only half what the recommendations of the Commission on Advanced Education say in effect is what the libraries could actually spend because the Commission believes that the colleges would be unable to cope with a grant of the magnitude of $9.25m in the way of supplying supporting services. When, however, one reads the appalling figures of the change in the price of books and periodicals over a comparatively few years one wonders whether at the end of the triennium, if the same trend continues, the amount of $9.25m would be beyond reach. If 1964-65 - admittedly this is a longer period than a triennium - is taken as a base of 100, for British adult non-fiction books, by 1970-71 the index was 222. The prices had more than doubled. The prices of American hard cover books have more than doubled since  1957.  The prices of American periodicals have much more than doubled in that time. The index for the price of selected periodicals in nearly  6  years,  2  triennia, from  1965  to  1971  increased from  100  to  204.  I think this has been a major problem of all libraries dealing with the high class of publication which universities and colleges of advanced education have. I would like to know from the Minister why the recommendation on page  65  of the report of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education has been ignored. 
Page  199  of the report of the Australian Universities Commission makes some reference to building grants. It deals with noncollegiate accommodation for the  1973-75  triennium. It seems to me that both the Universities Commission and academics are taking the easy way out when they say that college residences are expensive and that therefore we should settle for non-collegiate accommodation. Elewhere in its report dealing, for instance, with teaching students the Commission on Advanced Education suggests that teacher training should take place either in universities or in colleges of advanced education because the association of the teacher trainees with people in other disciplines helps to broaden the teacher trainees and makes them more effective as teachers in later life if they have mixed with other professions. I would say that in the same way residents in a college where any student is expected to have to consider other people, is expected to have certain standards of self discipline, and associates with other students, is a more desirable form of residence for a university education than is the kind of flat accommodation which is recommended by the Universities Commission. 
I have no doubt that there is an increasing reluctance on the part of some university authorities to stand for any discipline in the face of some student demands, but I would be sorry if this means that we are to opt out of establishing residential colleges, because  1  personally believe that the establishment of residential colleges, especially if they are associated, as they are not usually in Australia, with tutorial facilities, with resident tutors who can assist students - traditional form of university education - is the line of development we should be taking. I think that our halls of residence in universities have some value, but if they also have people who can really care about the students in the sense that some members of the staff will be prepared to be tutors and to take a personal interest in them, a great deal more can be obtained from a university education. The Universities Commission states: 
The Commission believes that the capital costs of non-collegiate accommodation can be kept much lower than those of collegiate accommodation, if its design and construction are on a domestic rather than an institutional scale. A number of universities has made proposals along these lines to the Commission and the cost per student place have generally been in the range of $4,000 to $3,000; and in some cases below $4,000. This is significantly lower than the cost of traditional accommodation. Moreover, it appears to the Commission that a proportion of the capital cost could readily be recovered through the tariff for the accommodation and, for that reason, the Commission is not prepared to recommend a full capital subsidy. However, it is important, both from the student's point of view and for the success of the experiment, that the tariffs should be kept at reasonable levels and the Commission believes that it should not recommend too low a building grant per place. Accordingly, the Commission is proposing to recommend total grants (shared equally between the Commonwealth and the States) for approved projects at the rate of $2,500 for the provision of at least one student place, the balance of the cost to be provided by borrowing. At a building cost of between $4,000 and $5,000 a place, it should be possible to amortise the consequential loan within a tariff of $9 to $10 per week, as well as allowing for adequate supervision and maintenance of the buildings.  1  suppose that  $700  for  40  weeks of residence would be fairly standard in Australian residential colleges at universities. It works out at  $17  or  $18  a week for the student unless he is on a scholarship, instead of the  $10  envisaged here. But it should be remembered that the student's food is then provided and he is properly looked after. 
It has been a depressing feature of student residents in flats that they do not cook for themselves properly and they do not look after themselves properly. I doubt whether the  $10  a week plus the cost of food would be much less than the cost of residence in a residential college. It seems to me that the Universities Commission does not pay enough regard to the educational value of the residents in a college or hall of residence at a university. The contrasting point of view is put on page  108  of the report of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education where it refers to teacher education. Paragraph 9.31 reads as follows: 
We support the general opinion that teacher education is a tertiary form of education but it is also our opinion that the teacher will have benefited from the experience of talcing his tertiary education in something other than a singlediscipline institution. By this we mean that to incorporate teacher education either into the education school of a university or the education school of a college of advanced education should result in turning out teachers with a better understanding of their profession and its role. Those who, in many cases, have gone straight from school to teacher colleges and from college back to school, without having been exposed to the impact of students or to people whose activities He in fields very different from their own, seem to us to miss useful experiences which would equip them better to work in a world of social and political realities. 
This does not apply only to teaching students. It applies to students from any disciplines who have this association. 
Insofar as the Universities Commission is making these recommendations about non-residential or non-collegiate types of accommodation for students it is abandoning the concept of the university, of a community of scholars. A good deal of the value of association in such institutions is in students really getting to know one another, as I think they do if accommodation is provided in halls of residence or, better still, in colleges. I am sorry that the Minister for Education and Science was somewhat late in coming into the chamber. We have accommodated him by accepting that 4 Bills should be treated in cognate debate. At the outset of my speech I asked why the recommendation on libraries in paragraph 5.38 in the report of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education did not appear to be implemented in the Minister's speech. 
The Universities Commission also has a comment to make on teachers at page 99 of its report. I am glad to say that it is open to assisting the universities to treat the students of teachers colleges as part of a university. The Commission pointed out that some of the teachers colleges have had close associations with universities and, while no concrete proposal has yet to come before the Commission, it is prepared to say that it would offer  no objection to amalgamation of teachers colleges with uni versities provided that the students at the teachers colleges could qualify for admission to the university in the ordinary way, that the academic staff of the teachers colleges were acceptable as full members of the academic staff of the university and that the courses offered in education were in weight and length equivalent to those degree courses normally offered at the university in other faculties. I think this is highly desirable as the standard of teacher training anyway. 
One disappointing feature of the report of the Universities Commission - I think the Government is culpable in this respect - lies in the long delay in the adoption of the report of the Committee on Teaching of Asian Languages and Cultures in Australia. It had this to say at page 98: 
The teaching of Asian languages is of relatively recent origin in Australian universities and is still not common. For example, in 1970 there were only 500 EFTS enrolled in Asian languages. This is only 13 per cent of all foreign language enrolments and about 1.7 per cent of all arts enrolments. In 1970 no Asian languages were taught in universities in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The Commission has noted the views expressed in the report of the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on Teaching of Asian Languages and Cultures in Australia (August 1970) that Australia should become a major centre for Asian studies at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. The Commission believes that there is a strong argument for some university teaching in Japanese and in Indonesian/Malay in each major Australian city. However, it does not want to encourage the proliferation of small and necessarily weak Asian language departments and believes there is a strong case for inter-university collaboration in this matter. 
I would like to know why the Commission assumes that if they were established quickly they would be small and weak. It must be concluding that we cannot draw teachers from Japan, Malaya or Indonesia. The Australian National University has in its oriental studies section many staff members who come from oriental countries. If we really desire an effective teaching of Asian languages this is a trend that should be encouraged. It is very important from every point of view, not excluding defence, that we should have in this country many people proficient in Asian languages. That rather tepid paragraph in the report of the Universities Commission on the teaching of Asian languages is therefore disappointing. I wish it had put a stronger stimulant into the Government. 
I said in a previous debate that the Australian Universities Commission showed no passion to increase the opportunities for people who are not getting a chance. One of the distinguished professors took exception to what I had to say and went on to write his own article about the Commission. He said that the Commission, in carrying out its policy:   . . seems to be not unaware in doing this it is reinforcing the position of an already privileged section of society; but it would doubtless take the line that social reconstruction is a matter for political leaders and is not part of the Australian Universities Commission's Charter. 
If the Commission conceives that it is not part of its charter, it cannot read. It is required by its charter to promote the balanced development of universities so that their resources can be used to the greatest possible advantage of Australia. If, as the professor says, the way the Commission is doing it is to reinforce the position of an already privileged section of society and it would doubtless take the line that social reconstruction is not a matter for it but for political leaders, it would not be interpreting its obligation to promote the balanced development of universities to the greatest possible advantage of Australia. Surely it is not to the greatest possible advantage of Australia to reinforce the privileges of an already privileged section. This criticism I make, however, not primarily of the Universities Commission. There is a complete lack of passion on the part of the Government to get the underprivileged child anywhere through a secondary education or to get him an opportunity at the university level and in this respect we contrast with the position in the United Kingdom. The Right Honourable Margaret Thatcher suggested to me that in the United Kingdom about 30 per cent of the student body at universities came from wage earners. I understand that only about 3 per cent of the student body in Australian universities come from families with a gross income of from $50 to $60 a week, which one might say was the basic wage for a family today. Of course there would be variants to the taxable income which 1 understand is what is mainly considered  in  means tests applying to university scholarships. But I am not speaking about scholarship winners. I am speaking about ordinary students who qualify. But many cannot get through secondary education in Australia because our scholarship system operates to give scholarships to those who in the main would get through secondary education if they did not have a scholarship. The opportunities of getting a tertiary education in Australia could be improved at the secondary level. That, however, is not an obligation of the Universities Commission. It deals, and so do the colleges of advanced education, only with people who finally get over the hurdles and on to universities. 
In the report of the Universities Commission at pages 13 and 14 there is comment on salaries and wages. One weakness in the Government's policy is that whilst it will adjust the supplementary grants to changes in academic salaries it has been tardy in changing the supplementary grants to changes in non-academic salaries. The universities have to pay the rest of their staffs just as they have to pay the professorial staff and the universities, and they have been left to bear the brunt of increases for half a triennium in non-academic salaries. On page 12 in paragraph 1.39 and paragraph 1.40 the Commission deals with this. At paragraph 1.40 the report states: 
While these grants have been of considerable assistance, the universities have been left to bear the consequences of abnormal increases in nonacademic salary and wage rates in the first half of the triennium and of other abnormal increases in costs for the whole triennium. The failure of the allowance included in the recurrent grants originally recommended by the Commission and of the supplementary grants referred to above to meet the full impact of abnormal cost increases has caused serious problems for the universities. On the recurrent side, universities have been unable to expand academic staff in accordance with the Commission's suggestion in the Fourth Report; in addition, universities have greatly restricted expenditure on such items as equipment and library materials and have been unable to devote as much of their resources as is desirable to student services. 
I believe that there should be set up an effective system of arbitration for academic and non-academic salaries and that there should not be merely ad hoc appointments. I believe also that the costs awarded against universities as employers on the nonacademic side should be as immediately adjustable in the form of supplementary grants always as are the costs of academic salaries. These are costs which universities cannot avoid. 
I think it would be good if the Government were to take a note of the tenor of the report advanced by the Australian Universities Commission and the report of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education on these matters. We welcome the fact that generally speaking the Government is implementing the recommendations in the reports of the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. I am not sure whether many students realise that in the Australian tax structure they are highly privileged. They receive a bonanza from the taxpayers, compared with students at other levels. This will continue under the system of grants foreshadowed for universities and colleges of advanced education - there will be a grant of over $l,346m in the coming triennium for the 2 sets from the Commonwealth and the States. Those who receive this education are highly privileged. We welcome the legislation generally. 
Was the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs drawn to a television programme in which Peter Couchman stated that a very large percentage of war orphans in Vietnam were going to starve to death? Is any action intended by the Commonwealth Government in its civil aid programme in Vietnam to sustain the lives of those children? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that his Department will only provide the service of interpreting and assessing academic qualifications gained overseas for other Government departments and employing authorities. 
If so, does he envisage that the service will be extended in the near future to give members of the general public access to this important facility. 
ls it also a fact that his Department is the only authority whose interpretations and assessments of academic qualifications gained overseas are regarded as official. 
If so, is it impossible for a person with academic qualifications gained outside Australia to have such qualifications assessed without first seeking employment in this country. 
1 would like to pay a tribute to  Mr Tom  Burke and  Mr Bill  Riordan. I first got to know Tom Burke when I was elected to this Parliament and he sat next to me on the plane that came from Perth to Canberra. That may sound a very prosaic thing today but in those days one left Perth at 7 o'clock in the morning on a DC3 aircraft and got to Melbourne at 10 o'clock at night, flew to Canberra the next day and said how much faster it was than the train. In that period of time, of course, I sat next to htm on many DC3 flights to and from Western Australia - in those days only Western Australian members had air travel rights - and I got to know him extremely well. He not only was my supporter on the nervous occasion of my first flight but he was also best man at my wedding, which was another nervous occasion. So there was between us a very great bond of affection over the 12 years in which he was in the Federal Parliament. 
When I was first elected to this Parliament Tom Burke was a very valuable adviser to me. Outside of the Parliament he was closely associated with the work of the slow learning children's movement and he did very great and very compassionate work in that connection. He really thought that a form of education should be given to these children which would make them effective citizens. As a result of the work of Tom Burke and his associates many of them did become so, and that was a valuable community service indeed. In the days of the Chifley Government he was at one stage appointed to assist the late Arthur Drakeford when Arthur Drakeford was Minister for Air, and it was felt that Tom Burke was likely to enter the Labor Cabinet. But the defeat of the Labor Government in 1949 made that impossible. I would like to extend to his wife Madeleine Burke and the family my own deep sympathy. There was a very great tribute paid to him on the occasion of his funeral earlier this year which testified to the position he had in the electorate of Perth which was always a knife-edge electorate in those days. He won it originally in 1943 by a very small majority and held it mostly by very small majorities. He probably held it because of the very great deal of service he gave to foreign communities - the Greek and Italian communities in Perth in particular - who held him in very high respect. I remember Tom Burke really as a personal friend, and it is in that connection that 1 would like to pay a tribute to him. 

 Mr Bill Riordan was  Chairman  of Committees when I was first elected and after the retirement of one distinguished member of the Parliament he became Minister for the Navy. He was Minister for the Navy in succession to the honourable Norman Makin, who is here this afternoon and whose work in connection with this Parliament dates back to 1919. It is easy to overlook the very great significance of the work of Bill Riordan as Minister for the Navy. He brought to fruition some of the ideas that had been formulated during the period of Norman Makin as Minister. He brought into the Australian Navy, in 1948 and after, the 2 aircraft carriers that it still has - the 'Sydney' and the Melbourne' - and the Daring class destroyers. These vessels were very great advances relative to the power of the Australian Navy beforehand Bill Riordan had a very great logic about this, a belief that an air arm was vital in the great expanses of the Pacific which, of course, was one of the lessons of the Second World War. 
He a so had a very great deal of irritation wilh naval conservatism. 1 remember his anger when he saw the payment of 32,000 to a particular naval rating who had invented the very fine torpedo which had not been used by the Australian Navy but had been so d to an overseas power. The conservatism of not using discoveries that were in our own field was a very great irritation to him because I believe that he thought not in conservative terms but in logical terms to try to create a naval force. He was a man who had a tremendous fund of anecdotes. I never saw him campaigning in the electorate of Kennedy, but i believe that the anecdote rather than the political meeting was a major weapon in his political campaigns. Bill Riordan conversed with large numbers of people. He sometimes expounded to me the philosophy that these sort of personal contacts were the best way of winning and holding seats, and he certainly demonstrated that in the tenure that he had of the seat of Kennedy. He and his wife, who are now both gone, were a gay couple at parliamentary social occasions outside of the actual meetings of Parliament. I think he was a very convinced parliamentarian and straight shooter in the Parliament. I never heard him use terms of personal abuse about anybody. In that respect he was a model member. I would like to express sympathy to his surviving sisters. 
Handicapped children are eligible for assistance under the isolated children's scheme if they have to attend schools for the handicapped. An isolated child is one who because of the geographical isolation of his home does not have reasonable daily access to a government school offering courses at the appropriate level, namely secondary school if he is a secondary school child and primary school if he is a primary school child. The allowance for all children is $350 a year regardless of any means test, and that allowance is also made to a child who does not leave home but is having tuition as an isolated child at home. Above that allowance of $350 is a further allowance of $350 subject to a means test. The adjusted family income at which the means test commences to operate is $4,200 a year, but that rises by $450 a year for every other dependent child. So if there is another dependent child the means test would not begin to operate until $4,650. If there were another 2 children it would not begin to operate until $5,100. Above that is a discretionary allowance which is actually taken from a similar allowance constructed in relation to allowances for the education of Aborigines under certain circumstances - that is, $150 for clothing, $50 for books and between $26 and $104 for pocket money according to the age of the child concerned. It is anticipated that many of those who would be eligible for the full $700 under the means test would also be eligible for the further allowance. 
One of the interesting things about certain of the State Ministers is that when the last Budget was brought down they applauded very vehemently the educational estimates of sums received in it and now that expenditure has been increased by nearly $30m foreshadowed this year they find a great deal to criticise. To come back specifically to the question of New South Wales, I have not received any letter from the New South Wales Government asking in specific terms for Commonwealth finance to assist the New South Wales Government with unemployed teachers. So far as I know, there is no admission in specific terms by the New South Wales Government that it has unemployed teachers. 
The form of submission which came to me from  Mr Willis  and was subsequently sent to the Prime Minister from the Premier of New South Wales was one that any State government could have made. It was not about a specific New South Wales problem. There were categories of requests about the training of teachers - for instance, specialist teachers for handicapped children and the training of teachers as librarians - which any State government could have made. In those circumstances, to have granted the requests of New South Wales would have opened up the whole question of funding education for the States and for that reason the request that came from  Mr Willis  was referred to the Interim Schools Committee whose function it is to examine, among other things, the funding of education to the States. Subsequently representations came from the New South Wales 
Teachers Federation and others and I indicated to them that if there was a request that locked off the New South Wales problem as one special to New South Wales I could undertake to ask the Prime Minister to consider it sympathetically. However, it is strange that there is only one State from which this agitation about unemployed teachers comes and that is New South Wales. It is also the State which more than any other put the Commonwealth Government into a predicament because it alone increased university fees by 161 per cent and made necessary, especially in New South Wales, the provisions we have made for students in need. And this happened despite the fact that we heard a very great deal from New South Wales about the generosity of the late Commonwealth Government in meeting the New South Wales deficit. 
Earlier in the year 1 received a letter from Professor Lazenby, the Vice-Chancellor of New England University. The V ice-Chancellor informed me that with the rise in fees in New South Wales universities of 16j per cent, in conjunction with a severe effect on family incomes in his region of New South Wales of the western New South Wales drought, a good many of his students were in considerable distress and he feared that some students would not be able to continue at the university. He indicated that he had made valiant efforts to help the students, and had raised a sum, which I recall was about $45,000, but that this would not be sufficient. I was not able to assure him that the Commonwealth Government would anticipate the decisions of next year and fully finance universities or, I should say, waive university fees, but I did indicate an interest in his problem of students who were in need. 
As a result of further correspondence from the Vice-Chancellor I had discussions with Professor Williams, the  chairman  of ViceChancellors Committee, and then with the Australian Universities Commission and the Colleges of Advanced Education Commission. Submissions were then made to Cabinet which were approved and which will become the subject of amending legislation providing $3m for tertiary students, the amount to be divided between universities and colleges of advanced education. From memory the figures are $2,165,000 and $835,000 respectively. These sums of money are to be distributed among the vice-chancellors and the principals according to the enrolment of their universities or colleges. From the indications I have received the sum will be sufficient this year to meet the cases known to university officials or colleges of advanced education officials of students who are in need. I say that with one qualification, lt is easy enough for certain universities to tell me specifically the number of students who are leaving university because they cannot finance their continuing studies, although they have been successful. Those students can be recalled and assisted. However, it is not easy to know the number of students who matriculated but never applied because they had no resources. That is a serious problem. I believe that the $3m which will be appropriated and which I understand the universities and other institutions are already advancing will, in conjunction with their own resources, meet the emergency. 
 The 3 points of the Opposition addendum would be acceptable if the second point did not exist as a clear attempt to prejudice the negotiations that the Australian Government will have with the United States of America on this matter. I refer to an out-of-hand declaration made by the Opposition that the Australian national interest and independence are not jeopardised by the continuance of the agreements under which United States defence installations remain in Australia. The approach of the Opposition to this question contrasts with its approach during its period in government. There appeared to be very clear rights given to the Australian Government under Article 3 of the agreement between the United States and Australia about the United States Naval Communications Station at North West Cape. It states: 
The 2 Governments will consult from time to time at the request of either Government on any matters connected wilh the station and its use. Except with the express consent of the Australian Government, the station will not be used for purposes other than purposes of defence communication, and appropriate 
Australian authorities nominated by the Australian Government shall at all times have access to the station. 
This article of the agreement was destroyed by an exchange of notes between United States Ambassador Battle and the former Minister for External Affairs,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. In the exchange of notes on 7th May 1963 the United States Ambassador wrote to the Minister for External Affairs as follows: 
I enclose a copy of my memorandum of our conversation of today concerning the construction of Article 3 of the VLF Agreement. Whereas this construction is not intended to restrict the Government of Australia's right of consultation, it is intended to spell out clearly that consultation does not carry with it any degree of control over the station or its use. If this is in accordance with your understanding, I would appreciate  your  so indicating. 
The reply which came from  Sir Garfield  Barwick was in the affirmative to the Ambassador's memorandum which read as follows: 
After a full and complete discussion regarding consultation on use of the station with Minister for External Affairs, it was clearly understood that consultation connoted no more than consultation and was not intended to establish Australian control over use of station nor to imply any Government of Australia design to restrict at any time United States Government use of station for defence communications including, for example, communications for polaris submarines, lt is also understood that it was not intended to give Australia control over or access to the contents of messages transmitted over the station. 
The Minister replied: 
Thank you for your letter of today's date enclosing a copy of your memorandum of our conversation concerning the construction of Article 3 of the Agreement concerning the Naval Communication Station at North West Cape. Your memorandum is entirely in accordance with my understanding. 
In other words, on that exchange of letters consultation, which appeared to mean something quite strong in the agreement, was whittled away until it meant virtually nothing. It is not true to say that it is impossible that this station can be an involvement of Australia in nuclear war without its consent and it is not true to say that the words the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  who led for the Opposition, quoted from the speech by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  are a sop to some sort of opinion in the Labor Party. This paragraph expresses exactly the view of all members of the Government, including myself: lt states: 
We must, however, insist on seeking renegotiation of certain treaties where this is necessary, to obviate the complete exclusion of Australia from any effective control over a defence installation on Australian soil or to obviate any possibility that Australia could be involved in war - and a nuclear war at that - without itself having any power of decision. 
Those honourable members who have been in the Parliament as long as I have will know that when honourable members opposite were in government it was a settled technique for them to suggest that this country was enormously important in the eyes of the United States of America and in the eyes of the United Kingdom. 
I certainly say it is not important in the eyes of the United States nor are the things that the Opposition, when it was in government, regarded as important by the United States. For example, both Australia and Holland were allies of the United States. The Minister for External Affairs in a Liberal government,  Sir Percy  Spender, went to The Hague to urge the Dutch to stand firm over West Irian.  Sir Robert  Menzies rejected the views of Subandrio that Indonesia had a valid claim on West Irian and indicated clearly that the whole area was strategically important to Australia. When  Senator Robert  Kennedy came out in a move of United States policy which sought to buy Sukarno out of the Chinese communist orbit by handing over to him West Irian, what the former government for at least 15 years when I sat in Opposition said was that a crucial Australian interest had been thrown to the winds. It was of no importance to the United States whatever nor was Holland, as a NATO ally of the United States, of any importance to the United States in its claim over West Irian. Factors other than the American policy brought Sukarno down, otherwise there could have been some significant confirmation of some of the views of the late government which it once held on West Irian. 
This VLF station has very important connotations for Australia. Of all of the weapons that Australia has perhaps least interest in seeing developed in the world, the Polaris submarine happens to be it. The Western world has great industrial cities sitting right on the coast. One can name them and see them as great conurbations right next to the water - 'New York, San Francisco, London, Liverpool, Yokohama, Tokyo, Bombay, Calcutta, Sydney and Melbourne. Any of the great western concentrations of industry and population - name it and it sits right on the coast. If a Polaris submarine controlled from the VLF station in the Indian Ocean sends a rocket from the Indian Ocean at a Soviet industrial complex, at least there are chances of interception in its flight of thousands of miles if the counter missile missiles mean anything. But if a Polaris missile with a nuclear warhead is sent from a few miles out of Sydney at Sydney or any of these great western concentrations of population there are no chances of interception. 
It is not a weapon that we should be. enthusiastic about and I do not believe that if there were a development of tension in the world that caused the Soviet Union to attack the North West Cape installation, the United States would necessarily treat that as the casus belli and sentence to death 100 million Americans in retaliation for an attack on that station, lt could, in a certain diplomatic situation, be an area where a warning attack was made which may lead to a change in United States policy. In any event, it would not be an installation of sufficient importance to the United States for it to risk a very large section of its population. Of course, it is an enormous advantage to great powers to have installations which can direct a striking down of their enemies on other people's territories to give them time to decide whether the casus belli had arisen where they needed to risk everything. 
I am speaking about the difference of interest between 2 countries in the creation of this North West Cape installation. There are enormous advantages to the United States. The advantages to Australia are extremely problematical if one postulates a situation of extreme tension where we may be moving towards nuclear war. 
1 say that at the moment we are in a relatively lucid interval in international affairs and that lucidity began to develop at about the time when this agreement was signed. The lucidity began to develop when Khrushchev was a sensible coward over Cuba. He was taunted at the time by the Chinese as a coward but instead of risking a nuclear war with the United States he was prepared to withdraw. The Soviet Union was trying to develop the exquisite advantage of having the control of critical nuclear weapons on somebody else's soil. The United States reached the point when the presence of those critical nuclear weapons of somebody else's became an issue where  President  Kennedy was willing to risk a nuclear war. Iq the fact of that,  Mr Khrushchev  climbed down and the weapons were withdrawn, lt would, of course, have been a very dangerous position for Cuba to have been in to have consented to be used. We say that because of the disparity of risk this whole question should be renegotiated so that it can become quite clear that without our consent the VLF station in the north west is not used. The expression weapon of defence' has been used. Heavens above, what is defence with a Polaris submarine? Is it retaliation? I presume that would be defence. Or is it a pre-emptive strike? That also could be called defence. In this particular context the word 'defence' is a very difficult one to follow. We believe that this agreement should be renegotiated to give Australia some of this control which the former government pretended in its treaty it was giving to the Australian people and which it violated in a private exchange of notes between  Sir Garfield  Barwick and  Mr William  Battle. That watering down behind the back of people who were given this paraded agreement in the Parliament is something that the Government finds highly objectionable. To say that consultation will take place and then to say that consultation means nothing means that that section needs renegotiations. We want to be consulted. We do not want in a treaty words that say we will be consulted while a private exchange says we will not. We want to be consulted and as a bare minimum in re-negotiation we would want to reestablish the full meaning of Article 3. But, of course, that would not of itself be going far enough. We are harbouring on our soil an installation that could be critically important in a nuclear war. The Government rejects entirely the second clause of the amendment moved by the Opposition because we regard it as a deliberate attempt to prejudice negotiations which would restore Australian authority on its own soil in a defence installation in which it has every right to equality and every right to be consulted. 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that on 19th February I announced the formation of the Australian Pre-schools Committee to make recommendations to the Commonwealth Government. The terms of reference were released on 2nd March. The Committee is having its first meeting today and tomorrow and after a reasonable time of investigation it will be bringing down recommendations to the Government. Normally I would expect that its recommendations would be operating from 1st January 1974. But this does not preclude the right of the Committee to make emergency recommendations to the Government for earlier action than that. All I can say to the honourable member is that this is an expert committee designed to make recommendations to the Commonwealth Government as to how it should exercise its powers under section 96 of the Constitution to make grants to the States and also as to direct action in its Territories. I believe that the Committee will necessarily have to make, recommendations concerning Commonwealth assistance for the employment of teachers. So far what has been done is to create a Commonwealth system of kindergarten teacher scholarships, which is already in operation. I am not yet in a position to inform the honourable member as to when the Committee will make recommendations about Commonwealth grants for the recurring expenses of kindergartens, pre-schools and child-care centres. 
In 1970 the Australian Education Council, which then consisted of the State Ministers for Education, estimated that in the 5 years 1971 to 1975 inclusive it would be necessary to spend $7,960m on education. It estimated that the amount available would be $6,5 17m, a shortfall of $ 1,443m; but on present indications, because qf the increase in expenditure in education which has taken place, the amount spent in the 5 years would be not $6,5 17m but $7 ,827m. However, the target of $7,960m has jumped away because of increased salaries of teachers and other costs. I mentioned that, on the present trend, the expenditure would come near to the original target but there is no reason why the present trend should continue. The Government has established a schools commission which will be making grants ' to the States with the proviso that the money which is coming from the Commonwealth according to the recommendations of the States must be additional to what the States would be spending. Therefore, we can guarantee an additional expenditure and not a substitutionary expenditure. 
There were weaknesses, of course, in the needs survey in that : it did not take into account technical education, which is surprising, and pre-school education, which is not so surprising considering that, in the past, the States have not necessarily taken responsibility for pre-schools. By establishing in the near future the technical education commission and having already, established at least an interim pre-schools committee, we will be ensuring that recommendations of Commonwealth grants to the States and general expenditure will be made in fields that the needs survey did not even consider. So, so far from burking the problems raised by the needs survey, our program goes beyond it. I might add that the needs survey also did not take into account the specific financial needs of children such as isolated children or Aboriginal children or grants that may be made in the future for children whose families are in need of financial assistance. In this respect also the Government has started to move into areas of education that the needs survey did not consider. 
I wish to speak briefly to this measure. It does have extremely important implications for education. As we are now enacting the adulthood of 18-year-olds and 19-year-olds it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain that we should continue the present structure of high schools where we attempt to subject young people, who are legally adults, to the disciplines required of 12-year-olds and 13-year-olds. For this reason there is a growing tendency in education for the development of secondary colleges which takes the classes of the last 2 years of high school out of the traditional high school and into separate institutions - secondary colleges - and gives them a broad range of curricula studies which approximate to studies in universities or colleges of advanced education or institutes of technology. I believe that this is an absolutely necessary educational development. Without this development there is a considerable alienation of the 18-year-olds and the 19-year-olds from the schools which exist today and from the sort of disciplines which are imposed on them today. Surveys have revealed this alienation. This alienation does not represent a foolish protest movement. It is a demand by young people to be treated as adults. 
It is one of the taboos in education that you must not speak about dogmatic and polemical theology. This is the traditional secularisation of education. In surveys made through Australian cities the young people in the final years of high school wish to be able to discuss anything from Zen Buddhism to any of the Christian faiths and to have the sort of freedoms that would exist in a university. I believe that this freedom is essential. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  spoke about the need for political education in schools and somebody satirised him by saying that in the near future we will be hearing children chanting: 'Subsidies for dairy farmers, subsidies for dairy farmers'. But I think that is a caricature of what the Leader of the Country Party meant. I certainly believe that in the curricula for young people - young adults who are being given their majority politically by this legislation - there needs to be a study of Australian government and the Australian Constitution. Any of us who campaigned on referenda know that a great many of their elders have not got a prayer about either the State constitution which governs them, the city constitution or the national one. 
When campaigning in New South Wales, from which the honourable member comes,  I  asked people in meetings how they had voted at the last Legislative Council elections in that State. About fourfifths of the people concerned thought they had voted, but of course not a soul in New South Wales has a vote for the upper House. So there are people who are interested enough to come to political meetings who have no idea of the constitution of their State. And this applies also to the constituting city government throughout Australia; in some of our States most of the residents have no vote and some of the residents have 8 votes. This politi cal chicanery is becoming increasingly incredible to young people and the political parties which maintain that structure of local government are also becoming increasingly incredible to young people.- I agree strongly with the Leader of the Country Party about the need for political education if this is what he means. It would not necessarily be partisan education. It means simply that there is a sheer need for information about the nature of government, the structure of government in this country and, I would add, the main philosophies of the contending political parties. I believe that, as Disraeli once said, we have to be prepared to educate our masters. 
When the franchise was greatly extended in Britain, the Education Act was extended to give an education to the people being enfranchised. We need to give a greater political education to those who are being newly enfranchised, which I take to be the contention of the Leader of the Country Party. Of course, many of them are receiving this education in universities and colleges of advanced education. This Bill extends citizenship rights to those in the high schools. I hope that more and more political education will be extended to secondary colleges. The measure, while important in itself as extending the franchise, needs to be followed up with a much wider recognition of the dignity and the needs of the young people who will now become our electoral masters. 
In answering the question of the honourable member for Macarthur, I should like to assure the Leader of the Opposition that I never asked that this question be asked which I understand is what is meant by a Dorothy Dixer. 

 Mr Snedden - Did you have notice of it? (Honourable members interjecting.) 
I am not sure whether the Thomas Report should be handed over to the Interim Schools Committee but I would draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that the  Mr Thomas  in question who is an expert on education of the handicapped is a member of the Interim Schools Committee and, presumably, would be aware of everything that went into the Thomas Report, considering that he chaired the committee of inquiry into the education of the handicapped in New South Wales. The document that was produced, however, is confidential to the Government of New South Wales. It is not a Commonwealth document and, as far as I know, there has never been any question of the Commonwealth being asked to fund whatever was found in a report which the Government of New South Wales has kept confidential to itself. Certainly no request has come during my time in office. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read  a  second  time. 
The Government recently announced its decision to provide an unmatched grant of $3m this year to help students who are experiencing hardship in commencing or continuing their tertiary studies at universities or colleges of advanced education because of financial circumstances. The purpose of this Bill is to provide grants to the States totalling $2.096m to enable universities to assist needy students. The Australian National University will receive $69,000 and the balance of the total of $3m will be made available to colleges of advanced education. Provision for grants to the States in respect of colleges of advanced education will be the subject of another Bill. 
The assistance scheme is to be administered by the respective universities and assistance will be given in the form of grants or loans, depending on individual circumstances, and will be available to pay fees, living allowances and other approved educational expenses. It will be a matter for each university to determine who should receive, assistance but I would expect that grants would be made available to students who are in extremely difficult financial circumstances following misfortune outside their control, such as death, injury, serious illness or desertion by breadwinners of families on ordinary incomes; the annihilation of family income in flood, drought or bushfire; seasonal or chronic unemployment of the breadwinner; loss of earning power by the breadwinner for any other reason; unreasonable refusal of financial support by parents; and to the children of age, invalid or widow pensioners. 
The funds to be provided for each university are set out in the Bill in the proposed new Eighth Schedule to the Act. In most cases these funds will supplement existing university funds which have been established by university authorities for the purpose of assisting needy students. The allocation of funds between universities has been determined by me in consultation with the Australian Universities Commission, and each university ViceChancellor has been advised of the amount that his university will receive for the purpose of assisting students in needy financial circumstances. I am most gratified by the promptness and willingness with which the ViceChancellors have acted, in anticipation of this legislation, to ensure that consideration was given to cases in which students had declined to enrol or re-enroll because of financial difficulties. This represented a considerable burden on university administrations at a very busy time, and in some cases involved re-opening enrolment procedures. I trust that the Commonwealth's decision will have made it possible for many students to pursue their studies who might otherwise not have been able to do so. 
With the Government's announcement that tertiary fees are to be abolished as from the 1974 academic year, I do not envisage that the need for assistance of this nature will be as great in the remaining years of the 1973- 75 triennium and, for that reason the Government decided that grants should be made in the 1973 academic year only. However, I would expect that those funds, properly managed, as I am sure they will be, will provide a continuing source of assistance for needy students in future years. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I thank the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  for drawing my attention to the competence of the Government of New South Wales which alone has this problem. I would like the honourable gentleman to notice the statistics he himself has used. He spoke of 1,000 teachers, then 260 married women, another 260 married women and another 40 married women, 300 of whom, apparently would not go and teach anywhere. I do not know of any Australian government which regards a married woman who may have training as a teacher but who will not regard herself as under an obligation to go and move anywhere, as somebody whom the government has an obligation to employ other than casually. When the New South Wales Minister for Education came to see me and there was a wide ranging discussion he made no request whatever for money for unemployed teachers. The Commonwealth Government has granted many millions of dollars to the State of New South Wales for the unemployed. Other States have had no difficulty apparently in applying this to teachers but apparently this has not been done by the Government of New South Wales. I am not prepared to vouch that it has not spent any of its unemployment grants from the Commonwealth on unemployed teachers but I understand that of the $13m that was given to Victoria for unemployment an amount of $5m was spent in one way or another on education. 
As to the question of these teachers, the honourable gentleman apparently knows the correspondence that has been submitted to me? 
If  Mr Willis  had released it to you I would be prepared to make it public but as it is I am not.  His  letters and the enclosures did not mention the subject of unemployment of teachers. There are items in the series which I will mention. 
You will listen to me for a change. There are items in the series which I will mention which spoke for instance of training for 75 teachers for children with disabilities, training for so many teachers to be librarians. Every State could make the same recurring request. In my answer to the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  I stressed that the request did not lock off claims for anything special to New South Wales. I have always said that if there was a specific request about unemployed teachers then I would sponsor that request with the Prime Minister but if a request comes couched in, terms that every other State might equally make a just claim upon - the training of teachers for children suffering from disabilities - then that is clearly a matter that ought to go to the Interim Schools Committee which is recommending to the Commonwealth Government the grants that it should make in &amp;11 these categories. Nowhere does  Mr Willis'  correspondence mention the subject of unemployed teachers. 
No, I am not free to make  Mr Willis's  corespondence available. 
I am not quoting from it. I am giving a general indication of the nature of some of the requests that were made to show that they relate to the question of training specialist teachers, and other recurrent requests which any State could make. It seems to me to be clear that other States have used unemployment grants from the Commonwealth in relation to education. It is far from clear that New South Wales has done so. But the amount of money that was granted to New South Wales for unemployment relief is far in excess of $4.47m. If other States have found no difficulty in this field I do not know why New South Wales has, especially as unemployment is falling spectacularly. Whatever claims there are on the fund, I think it might be possible for New South Wales to use unemployment grants in the field of education. I do not know whether New South Wales wants to do it that way or whether it requires special permission. I am not prejudging the Government of New South Wales but the honourable gentleman has spoken of 1,000 unemployed and he mentioned 560 married women among them. 
That does not matter. The question of the employment of married women teachers is not an obligation that any State government takes on itself, especially if they are not free to move. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member has made his speech. I suggest that he listen to the Minister's reply and ceases his continual cross-talking, otherwise I will be forced to take some action. 
The Commonwealth cannot be held responsible for the recruitment policies of the New South Wales Department of Education. It may well be justified or alternatively running itself into a major crisis. It has 38,000 teachers in employment and 20,000 in training. It must be just about a world record to have in training more than half as many as it has in employment. It must have made some kind of intelligent forecast of its needs. No other State seems to have recruited on such a grand scale. New South Wales may well be building up a future problem. I do not regard New South Wales uusympathetically. 1 hope that the additional funding which 1 expect in the future will come will meet those needs. But 1 remind the honourable gentleman that the Ministers in New South Wales hailed the late Government's Budget appropriations for education for them and hailed the fact that their deficit of SI 5m was being met by the Commonwealth. My Government is honouring that commitment. I sent to the Minister for Education in New South Wales $3,900,000 which he did not expect to receive. That was for technical education. It is a mystery to me how the honourable gentleman, who voted for the last Budget and hailed it, can now regard that same Budget for education, with very many additional sums added to it, as very inadequate. When he tried to make a case about 1,000 unemployed he began by mentioning 560 married women teachers whom the Government of New South Wales does not regard as being other than casual and not under any obligation to employ but whom the New South Wales Teachers Federation regards the Government as being under an obligation to employ. 
A large number of these unemployed teachers appear to be casual teachers. The State Government with great numbers of new trainees does not regard itself as being under any obligation to re-engage them. There have been 3 by-elections in New South Wales, and these kinds of statements played a very large part at that time. I emphasise that New South Wales is the only State to seek Commonweatlh grants for this purpose. I wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  saying that if the New South Wales Premier wrote to him demonstrating a genuine need for emergency funds from the Commonwealth for the purpose of employing teachers, I would appreciate his giving sympathetic consideration to the request. The New South Wales Premier has in fact written to the Prime Minister, but instead of seeking assistance with a problem of unemployed teachers he has merely expressed general support for the earlier approach to me by  Mr Willis,  the New South Wales Minister for Education. In that approach  Mr Willis  asked for additional funds from the Commonwealth to permit the employment of additional teachers but he did not relate this to the problem of unemployed teachers. The Prime Minister has replied to  Sir Robert  Askin, I understand, indicating that he does not believe that the Premier has justified his request for special consideration. 
I believe that New South Wales can find a solution to its problem of unemployed teachers in the general Commonwealth unemployment funds allotted to New South Wales. That State has had its deficits met. It appears to me to have been extremely well treated by the late Government, which the honourable gentleman supported, when it had its deficits completely cancelled. Instead of blaming me, the honourable gentleman might try to find out why New South Wales is apparently the only government with unemployed teachers. 

 Mr MacKELLAR (Warringah)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr BEAZLEY (Fremantle - Minister for Education) - I would like to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I did not say that the honourable gentleman was quoting. I asked him whether he was. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report on the recommendations for the implementation and development of a program of bilingual education in schools in Aboriginal communities in the Northern Territory. It is a report of an advisory group consisting of  Dr B.  H. Watts,  Mr W.  J. McGrath and  Mr J.  L. Tandy. 
This is the first time that I have heard it suggested that matrimonial reconciliation was within my portfolio. However, I agree with the honourable member that domestic science and home management training are critically important. I have certainly become convinced of their importance, for instance, for the Aboriginal population in the Northern Territory and feel that in that area there needs to be total family education if a child is to be benefited. But I have not given consideration to the point that the honourable member has raised. I will have the matter examined. 
On 15th March I tabled in the House a document recommending bilingual education in certain Northern Territory schools.  Mr Speaker,  dhiyangubala ngarra ga wanga nhokala yolnguwurru mathakurru. What I said then was: 'Now I am speaking to you in the Aboriginal language'. It was Gupapuyngu, the language spoken by my Aboriginal friends at Milingimbi in Arnhem Land, and although it may sound strange to your ears, to them it is 'the language of the heart' and to their children it is their mother tongue. But, until this year, it has not been the language used by teachers in the Milingimbi school. Gupapuyngu. like most Aboriginal languages, is about as different from English as one could imagine, yet until this year little 5 and 6-year- old Aboriginal children for whom it is their mother tongue, going to school for the first time, have been faced with a European teacher speaking to them in English - which they must very soon learn to read and write or drop hopelessly behind in all of their school work. Assisting the European teacher there has often been one of their own people who does her best to help these small children understand. But what of their own language, the language their mothers and fathers speak, the language the old people speak, the language of the tribal stories, myths, legends and ceremonies? The schools have turned their back on that language and it is no wonder that the shocking comment has been heard from a 10-year-old Aboriginal boy: 'Ours is a rubbish language, isn't it'. 
Australia is a member nation of the International Labour Organisation. Article 23 of the ILO Convention Concerning the Protection and Integration of Indigenous and Other Tribal and Semi-tribal Populations in Independent Countries reads as follows: 
Children belonging to the populations concerned shall be taught to read and write in their mother tongue, or, where this is not practicable, in the language most commonly used by the group to which they belong. 
Provision shall be made for a progressive transition from the mother tongue or the vernacular language to the national language or to one of the official languages of the country. 
Appropriate measures shall, as far as possible, be taken to preserve the mother tongue or the vernacular language. 
On 14th December 1972 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made the following announcement: 
The Federal Government will launch a campaign to have Aboriginal children living in distinctive Aboriginal communities given their primary education in Aboriginal languages. 
The Government will also supplement education for Aboriginal children with the teaching of traditional Aboriginal arts, crafts and skills mostly by Aborigines themselves. . . . 
We knew then that this would not be an easy policy to implement. There are more than a hundred Aboriginal languages and dialects in active use in the Northern Territory alone. Only a very few of them have been linguistically analysed and written down. Furthermore, in some communities a number of different languages is spoken. There are few trained teachers available to do the job, and nowhere near the quantity of written material in these languages needed for school work. In this situation the wise course seemed to be to have a small advisory group of people to go to the Northern Territory and, as quickly as possible, look into the resources of trained manpower, the teaching materials available and the state of linguistic analysis reached in the various languages and dialects. They were to discuss the matter with educationists, linguists, administrators, and with the Aboriginal people themselves, and in the light of all this, to make recommendations for a program of teaching in Aboriginal languages which would incorporate the teaching of traditional Aboriginal arts, crafts and skills. 
The group chosen comprised  Dr Betty  H. Watts, Reader in Education at the University of Queensland,  Mr W.  J. McGrath, Inspector of Schools, Darwin, and  Mr J.  L. Tandy, a senior Education Officer of the Department of Education in Canberra. Their recommendations are presented in the document which 1 have tabled. They advocate a bilingual approach with most of the children's early schooling in the appropriate Aboriginal language, leading to the acquisition of literacy skills in that language. This will be followed by a transition to literacy in English and the use of English as the medium of instruction for a substantial component of the children's later schooling. There will be increased emphasis upon the teaching of traditional Aboriginal arts, crafts and skills and this will continue through the entire period of the children's schooling. The teaching will be done on a teaching team basis, the Aboriginal member teaching the Aboriginal language component of the curriculum, assisted as required in the preparation of lessons and so on by the non-Aboriginal member, who will also teach the English language component. 
The educational aim of such an approach is the development of children who are thoroughly competent in their own language and able to read and write it, who are more proficient in English than they would have been under the present system, and who are better at all their school subjects because their schooling, and their early schooling in particular, has been more interesting, enjoyable and meaningful to them. One can also confidently expect psychological benefits from this recognition of the children's language and culture, and more enthusiastic support from the parents for the schooling their children are offered. This is not a program that can be implemented immediately in schools in all Northern Territory Aboriginal communities. As 1 mentioned earlier, there are communities where as many as 9 languages are spoken, &lt;ir where the dominant language has not yet been linguistically analysed and written down, or where the dominant language is not the language of the country, or where the language used by the children is a form of pidgin detested by their elders. Such situations pose very real problems and it will take time and deep thought, both on our part and on the part of the Aboriginal communities, before decisions can be made by them as to which language they wish to be used in their schools. 
A start can be made, however, in communities where only one language is spoken or where there is a dominant language acceptable to that community, where that language has been linguistically analysed and recorded, where there are Aboriginal people able to teach in it and where the Aboriginal people themselves want it to be used in their school. Five such places in the Northern Territory are at Angurugu on Groote Eylandt, Milingimbi, Goulburn Island, Areyonga and Hermannsburg and the program is operating now in those schools. More schools will be added as we are able to develop the necessary resources for them. 
During a recent visit to the Northern Territory I saw the first steps being taken towards this form of schooling. The 2 classes being taught in their own language were the most entranced classes we saw on the entire trip. In one class, young children were so riveted by a lesson being given in their language by an Aboriginal woman teacher that they paid no attention to the invasion of their classroom by more than a dozen adult Europeans. The second case was where a distinguished Aboriginal bark-painter was used as an art instructor, teaching senior boys the art of bark painting. They obviously had for him a reverence, even awe; they thought it a great privilege to be taught by him. 
This is the very essence of the matter and I have had no hesitation in accepting recommendations which will have the effect of implementing this quality in education in Northern Territory Aboriginal communities. I also intend to bring this document to the attention of State Ministers for Education, and particularly to those of Western Australia. South Australia and Queensland. I shall ask them to give their most serious consideration to the possibility of adapting its recommendations for implementation in schools in the distinctive Aboriginal communities in their States. (Quorum formed.) 
I have no statistics with me concerning what the honourable member calls dropouts and failures. I think that there could be unfortunate consequences of linking the two as if everyone who left a tertiary institution did so because he was a failure. However I will treat the honourable member's question as being on notice and seek the information for which he asks. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to a number of Government decisions to provide additional funds for the development of advanced education in Australia during the current triennium. Honourable members will recall that the Australian Commission on Advanced Education recommended, in its third report, that the Commonwealth should provide an unmatched grant of $5m for libraries in colleges of advanced education during the 1973-75 triennium. The late Government did not accept the recommendation. The present Government accepts the view of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education that present library resources are inadequate in colleges of advanced education, and it is therefore prepared to make available for college libraries the sum of $5m during the current triennium. No matching contribution will be required from the States in respect of this grant. 
Present day living is becoming increasingly more complex and this complexity produces social problems, especially in urban communities, which demand the expertise of the professional social worker for their solution. Education is a field where social workers are needed. There is, at the present time in Australia, a severe shortage of trained social workers. To help overcome this shortage the Government is providing an unmatched grant of $40,000 in 1973 to enable the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education to establish a postgraduate course in social work to commence in 1974. This course will enable graduates in disciplines such as arts to become professionally qualified social workers. Additional finance will be provided in 1974 and 1975. 
The Government has approved an allocation of $3m to universities and colleges of advanced education to enable them to provide financial assistance to needy students. Of the $3m, $806,000 is for students attending colleges of advanced education in the States. The amount of $29,000 has been allocated for the Canberra College of Advanced Education. The provision of these funds will enable students who are suffering financial hardship to receive assistance sufficient to enable them to continue their college courses. The Government decision to provide these funds was taken in the knowledge that tuition fees have risen significantly in many tertiary institutions. This assistance too is being provided entirely by this Government and no contribution is sought from the States. I would like to repeat what I said in connection with legislation assisting needy university students about the Government's hope in regard to the administration of the scheme. The assistance scheme is to be administered by the respective colleges of advanced education and assistance will be given in the form of grants or loans, depending on individual circumstances, and will be available to pay fees, living allowances and other approved educational expenses. It will be a matter for each college of advanced education to determine who shall receive assistance, but I would expect that the grants would be made available to students who are in extremely difficult financial circumstances following misfortune outside their control, such as death, injury, serious illness or desertion by bread-winners of families on ordinary incomes; the annihilation of family income in flood, drought or bushfire; seasonal or chronic unemployment of the bread-winner; loss of earning power by the bread-winner or any other reason; unreasonable refusal of financial support by parents; and to the children of age, invalid or widow pensioners. 
The present Bill, together with other Bills on education listed for introduction during this autumn session of Parliament, underlines the importance which the Government and, I believe, the Parliament attach to the whole field of education, a view which Parliament knows is shared by the nation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lynch)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act 1971, 1 present a statement describing the arrangements in accordance with which payments under this Act have been authorised in 1972. 
 Sitting in close proximity across the table to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  I am reminded that when I first met the right honourable gentleman he was a distinguished member of the Liberal Party in Western Australia. By that I mean he was a sufficiently distinguished member of the Liberal Party to have been endorsed for the Fremantle division and then subsequently, twice I think, for the seat of Perth. 
Well, I remember him as a very dynamic opponent in Fremantle during the 1949 election. The speech that the right honourable gentleman delivered this afternoon could have been composed half by  Sir Thomas  Playford and the other half by Steele Hall.  His  statements of unexceptionable principle of one vote one value and his commendation of Canada and his criticism of the Prime Minister.  (Mr Whitlam)  for endorsing certain aspects of Canadian policy - though he was not able to quote where the Prime Minister had endorsed the Canadian electoral system - avoided one point. Nobody has ever suggested that the malapportionments in Canada were all consistently and deliberately selected to favour one party. In Canada there are Conservative rural seats that are small and there are Liberal rural seats that are small. But there would be an uproar in Canada if there were reproduced in Canada what exists in South Africa - that is, a deliberate arrangement of electorates to keep the Nationalists permanently in power. There is not an indiscriminate variation in the size of electorates in South Africa favouring parties equally on both sides. 
Since the Leader of the Opposition made Party points about how parties preserve electoral systems I am reminded that in the State of Western Australia, from which he came originally, the vote in a metropolitan seat in the lower House there had a value of one, a country seat had a value of three and a northwestern seat had the value of six. In the Western Australian Upper House a metropolitan seat had the value of one, a country seat had the value of three and a northwestern seat had a value of twelve. The Leader of the Opposition was never on record when he was in Western Australia as criticising this. He was never on record as criticising the property qualification of voting for the upper House or the system of local government in which most of the residents of Perth have no votes and some have eight. Every single one of these distortions is defended by the Liberal Party, and by the Liberal Party exclusively, in the face of Labor challenges. There is an upper House in New South Wales for which not a soul has a vote. This upper House was a creation of the non-Labor parties and it is defended by the non-Labor parties. 
The Leader of the Opposition had a number of things to say about malapportionments. There is, of course, a difference between gerrymandering and malapportionment. I do not believe that the Liberal Party favours gerrymandering; I do not believe that the Country Party favours gerrymandering. What they stand by solidly is malapportionment to make sure that the votes, at any rate of the Country Party segment, will always have a much greater value than those of anybody else. We have the example of Steele Hall who tried to reform the electoral system of South Australia, and split the Liberal Country League in doing so. To him belongs the credit, as far as I know, of being the only political leader in Austraiian history who was favoured by a malapportionment who got rid of the malapportionment and promptly defeated himself. In defeating him the State was not voting conspicuously differently from the way it had done before. It had not voted for  Sir Thomas  Playford to be Premier but the new electoral distribution put Steele Hall out immediately. When the South Australian electoral controversy was raging, one spokesman of the country segment of the Liberal Country League came out with the brilliant statement: 'Why should a metropolitan drink waiter have a vote the same value as the vote of a soldier settler battling in the backblocks to create a new farm?' To which the reply was given: Why should a country drink waiter have a vote 4 times the value of the vote of a metropolitan brain surgeon'? This extraordinary ability to say that certain people are entitled to be valued more highly is a Country Party rationalisation. The other rationalisation - and I thought the Leader of the Opposition was going to come at it - but he slurred off when he was taunting the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  - is the old Country Party myth that development follows representation. We only have to make a Parliament stiff with Country Party members representing small electorates in order to get a marvellous development industrially in country areas. Stocking factories will blossom in Wagga Wagga! It has never occurred that way. 
In Western Australia there is only one thing that has ever created development, and it is not representation. The thing that has created development has been the discovery of resources, and that alone in the face of the most blatant malapportionments in even Western Australia's history of blatant malapportionments is what changed the Government in Western Australia. A sweet Country Party pocket borough of Merredin- Yilgarn was created with a couple of thousand people on the roll. Then, most awfully, nickel was discovered at Kambalda and within a few years there was a town with a population of some 5,000 people with 2,500 voters on the roll. Perhaps 70 per cent of these voted Labor, or enough to ensure the seat rolled over. At the last State election in Western Australia the Liberal Party won 29.3 per cent of the vote, the Australian Country Party won 5 per cent of the vote and with 34.3 per cent of the vote between them, naturally they lost the election by only one seat. It was the greatest shock that I ever had because I did not believe that they could ever lose the election. They were below the Playfordesque point of 35 per cent, and he had created  a  situation in South Australia in which a country vote had 4 times the value of a city vote. 
I am fascinated by the right honourable gentleman's solicitude for the size of Kalgoorlie. I am sure that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  must have been weeping tears of self-sympathy. But the Western Australian seat of Kalgoorlie would be smaller without doubt if the State had 10 seats and not 9 seats. Last year the right honourable gentleman had the opportunity, in the terms of the findings of the census, to give Western Australia a tenth seat, in which case Kalgoorlie might have been nicely reduced in size. But the right honourable gentleman did not seize the opportunity. As a Minister the Leader of the Opposition had no solicitude for the size of Kalgoorlie, and Western Australia did not receive the tenth seat to which it was entitled. 
As for his picture of changes in population being a case for not having redistributions except immediately after a census, I remember the distinguished and right honourable member for Bruce, when he was on this side of the House, was one of the people who could be cited as an argument against the proposition that only Labor seats were bloated in size in their enrolments. In this wonderful system that he defends the right honourable gentleman was then representing 120,000 electors - this was equal to 3 Country Party electorates - and the then honourable member for Lalor,  Mr Reg  Pollard, was representing about 130,000. How long did this have to develop without a redistribution? We are told that wisdom has always characterised Liberal-Country Party governments and that they have correctly anticipated the movements of population. The right honourable gentleman's seat of Bruce with an enrolment of 120,000 shows that this is untrue. 
I loved his average and his little play with 0.06 per cent. Let us have a look at the realities as they stand now. Honourable gentlemen will know by the naming of seats who benefits by being below the quota and who is impeded by being above the quota. These figures applied as on the last day of last year. The seat of Calare is 17.02 per cent below quota. The seat of Chifley is 20.83 per cent above quota. The seat of Cowper is 12.97 per cent below quota. The seat of Darling, which is a Labor seat, is 22.87 per cent below quota. The seat of Gwydir is 15.45 per cent below quota. The seat of Lyne is 19.08 per cent below quota. So it goes on. Then we come to the following group: The seat of Macarthur is 13.95 per cent above quota. The seat of Mackellar is 10.53 per cent above quota. The seat of Macquarie is 14.48 per cent above quota. The seat of Mitchell is 24.64 per cent above quota. The seat of Parramatta is 13.94 per cent above quota. The seat of Phillip is 10.09 per cent above quota. The seat of Robertson is 17.04 per cent above quota. The seat of Riverina is 16.52 per cent below quota and the seat of Paterson is 11.52 per cent below quota. 
The selection is extremely interesting because everybody knows that, while there are exceptions on both sides, nothing equivalent to this could be found by a scrutiny of Canadian electorates. If people have the effrontery to come in here and talk about who benefits under the redistributions of the past, one has only to go on State by State and name the seats. One will find again and again where over-representation lies and where under-representation lies. There are a few exceptions on both sides but it overwhelmingly favours one side. It is not by getting some percentage all over; it is by looking at the specific seats where each isolated electoral battle takes place that one will find where there is a favouring by a redistribution. 
It is a constant debating point to suggest that in Australia there is a constitutional guarantee underpinning citizen rights. We are not a republic. In basic conception there is no such thing as an Australian citizen. Nobody has an intrinsic right to vote. Nobody has a right to vote for the New South Wales Upper House. In the absence of an Act which in theory graciously confers that right from the Crown no citizen of New South Wales has an intrinsic right to vote at all. Not so long ago, in 1962, we passed an Act which gave Aborigines the right to vote, but no citizen guarantee in the Constitution gave them that right. Basically, what we confront in Australia is the monarchical idea that all people are simply subjects and the rights that they obtain have to be deliberately conferred. 
Nothing that the Leader of the Opposition said could establish why it was that the Opposition parties want a 20 per cent variation. If the average electorate contains 50,000 people with a 20 per cent variation they could make the largest electorate 60,000. They know where they have always assigned the big battalions to be under-represented in the House. They have always assigned them to the Labor Party. On the other hand take an electorate of 40,000 people. That is created 20 per cent below the 50,000 quota. That is where their own seats, especially those of the Country Party, will line up. It has had nothing whatever to do with development. I remember the Right Honourable  Sir John  McEwen saying: 'We do not care who is in this House so long as the country people are represented. We do not care if they are represented by Labor. We do not care if they are represented by Liberals. We do not care if they are represented by the Country Party.' One would have had to come down in the last shower not to notice the party direction of these distributions and the stern determination, for instance, with which the Country Party in Western Australia maintains the situation in which Lyla Elliott represents 80,000 people on the roll in the Upper House. You could get a line up of 8 Country Party seats to equal it. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that he stands for one vote one value. He may do so but that is not what determined the coalition. Menzies brought in a redistribution in 1962 which would have avoided the development of seats like Bruce to  120,000  people. And who stopped it? We all know. The sense of survival that the Country Party possesses stopped that redistribution, and the Leader of the Opposition has the effrontery to say that if we bring in a Bill which allows for a  10  per cent variation he must tie that to the survival of the Labor Party. But in all his experience he knows how redistributions were blocked because one Party in the coalition did not favour those redistributions. 
The Liberal Party in South Australia is split on this issue. The honourable member knows that. It is simply split on an issue of honesty of representation. Steele Hall went to the University of Adelaide and said in effect: 'If I stand here any longer as Premier of this State on  42  per cent of the vote I do not care how politically convenient it is, the Liberal Party has ceased to be credible.' But he has not carried very significant sections of the Liberal Party with him. This, however, is a real issue. What is an election about? An election in the last resort is about who the majority of people want to govern. There can be political systems in which this is not a striking, immediate, urgent question. In a country like Switzerland where the Parliament elects the Ministry and the Ministry will be a mosaic of every political party in the House, if legislation is rejected the Ministry does not resign - it merely puts forward another proposal. With such a form of government - not responsible government but representative government - the size of electorates does not matter. 
In the Westminster system where there will be monopoly of power for that side which has the majority of seats, there is a very clear moral obligation to ensure, so far as it is humanly possible, that the side which has the majority of seats has had the majority of votes. If honourable members opposite do not believe that, I ask them: What on earth is an election about? Is an election about a decision to arrive at a result that has been predetermined? This seems to me to be what underlies all the property qualifications by which people without property do not have a vote. This is one definite consequence of every distortion of parliamentary electorates. 
If it is an issue for the Leader of the Opposition to accuse the Labor Party of favouring unrepresentative institutions, I can demonstrate the Liberal Party's defence of unrepresentative institutions in every State of Australia. I come back to the Bill and deal with the accusation made by the Leader of the Opposition. If a country goes long enough in ensuring that its parliament is unrepresentative, the issues go to the streets. There is nothing shocking about Ulster. Its electoral system is identical with that of Melbourne, identical with that of Adelaide and identical with that of Perth in that most of the people have had no votes and some have had a multiplicity. In Ulster this was done merely by ensuring that the people who did not hold property were Catholics. In Australia we have never cared for that. The issues in Ulster went to the streets. If we make Parliament unrepresentative, sooner or later the issues will go to the streets. That is the nemesis of not having a representative Parliament. An important thing which this legislation is designed to ensure is the representative nature of Parliament. 
We have had great difficulty in getting elementary democracy in Australia. In the United States, where ultimately the position of citizens will go to the Supreme Court if a citizen's rights are infringed, the whole" process of malapportionment has been brought under challenge and scrutiny. It is a pity that constitutional rights do not guarantee the equality of citizens in Australia. In Australia there is no guarantee of those rights. In the case of Baker v. Carr the United States Supreme Court stated the position very well. This is the answer to the philosophy of an important segment of this Parliament. The Court said: 
The weight of a citizen's vote cannot be made to depend on where he lives. 
In Australia, if a person switches from a country electorate to a city electorate, usually his vote declines in value. The United States Supreme Court said that the weight of a citizen's vote cannot be made to depend on where he lives. The Court continued: 
Equal representation of all citizens of all places as well as of all races. 
It ordered that what in the United States is called 're-districting' should take place. 'Redistricting' is a term which in Australia we would translate as 'redistributing'. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has not proposed a rigid one vote one value. A variation of  10  per cent will mean that if there is an average of 50,000 people in the electorates of mainland Australia and a variation of 10 per cent is permitted up or down, the electorates may vary from 45,000 to 55,000 people. That provides for a reasonable degree of variation. What is really involved when one wants more than that it a sense of self-preservation. In the case to which I have referred the Chief Justice of the United States spoke about the effects of redistributing and said how impossible it was to be utterly rigid about these matters. I think a 10 per cent variation allows sufficient flexibility, but the Court affirmed the goal. The Chief Justice said: 
A state may legitimately desire to maintain the integrity of various political subdivisions, insofar as possible, and provide for compact districts of contiguous territory in designing a legislative apportionment scheme. Valid considerations may underlie such aims. Indiscriminate districting, without any regard for political subdivisions or natural or historical boundary lines, may be little more than an open invitation to partisan gerrymandering ... 
 So long as the divergences from a strict population standard are based on legitimate considerations incident to the effectuation of a rational state policy, some deviations from the equal-population principle are constitutionally permissible with respect to the apportionment of seats in either or both of the 2 houses of a bicameral State Legislature. 
But I suspect that the United States Supreme Court, if it found that this concern for historic boundaries, this concern for community of interest, this concern for natural boundaries resulted always in electorates which favoured one party it would become extremely suspicious. This is what we feel about so much of the State and Federal distributions of the past. 
It is not a reflection on anything. This Act is a fundamental instruction to the electoral commissioners. If what I am saying is a reflection on people who were in government in the past, what the Leader of the Opposition was saying was a reflection on those who are in the present Government. If he says that this Bill will be the instrument of a Labor Party gerrymander, which is what he was saying, and they will take their 10 per cent permissive variation or 20 per cent variation 
It is not a question of accusing anybody of anything; I am discussing a system of distribution. The Country Party is defending a system of distribution which in the States always make country electorates much smaller in enrolment than other electorates and it is trying to achieve the same thing in regard to the Federal Parliament. I do not blame it. However, I am entitled to say why I am opposed to it and that is what I am doing. The United States Supreme Court went on to say why there should be opposition to a deliberate attempt to favour and said: 
The overriding objective must be substantial equality of population among the various districts, so that the vote of any citizen is approximately equal in weight to that of any other citizen in the state. 
We feel that this is what the 10 per cent variation will do. It gives an equal weighting to the votes of citizens. Of course, this is more convenient from the Labor Party's point of view than it is from the Country Party's point of view. The population trend in so many country areas is consistently downwards. There are many reasons why this is a social tragedy, but it is a fact that every year since 1901 the percentage of the Australian population engaged in farming has declined. 
Yes, since 1901, and every year since then the percentage of people engaged in farming has declined. That does not mean that the farming community is not becoming a more important segment because of increased productivity and so on. We are talking about numbers of people in relation to the total population. This is a fundamental problem for rural electorates, except, of course, where there is a great incursion of population because of a mineral discovery. This is a way in which the enrolment in a rural electorate may change quickly. Ultimately, of course, the mining seats also may begin to decline, but there is a greater speed, I have noticed, in reapportioning them under conservative State governments than there is when agricultural areas decline in population because those governments are rather glad to get rid of the hobnailed boots of Labor in the mining areas from some of their preserves, and that is what concerns them. 
You should be happy about that electorally. Of course, we like your stories about what will happen to rural incomes. You had better have a few more guesses. If you can forecast the prices of minerals and the prices of products of primary industries and what will happen to the population engaged in those industries, I think you ought to be employed as an adviser. 
As the honourable member said, I tabled the report on the expenditures in the first year of the triennium under the school libraries provisions of the previous Government. It is a surprising feature that the only authority which has not appropriated all the money available to it is the Victorian Government in respect of government schools. The entire amount of money available for the private schools of Victoria has been appropriated to them. It is, of course, perfectly competent for a State government to spread its money over a triennium in the purchase of books. This normally might be an intelligent action. It is commonly assumed, however, that in getting library buildings up it is wise to get them moving as quickly as possible because of the experience of building costs. It is suspected that possibly the organisation of the State did not allow it to spend the money on the actual physical building materials during the year 1972. It has been a notable feature of some of the States that, when there are grants such as the S46m over the triennium for technical education, they ask for the right to spend the money on sites, which may indicate that they do not have building plans. We want to meet whatever is reasonable about this inability, and in legislation that will be introduced this week there will be generosity about the ending date of a triennium and, if a State finally is not able to spend the money that is being granted to it, perhaps that money can be redirected to a State which can spend it. But I would say that the situation to which the honourable member referred is related to perhaps the inability of the State to mobilise building materials and labour. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
During the period of the late Government our predecessors conducted a Senate inquiry into the education of handicapped children, and my predecessor also appointed the Cowen Committee to inquire into the training of teachers. This Committee has just produced a report which has not yet been published. Chapter 6 of this report deals with the training of teachers for children with disabilities. All of this material will be available to the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission which will make recommendations to the Commonwealth Government in this field of accelerating the development of facilities for the education of the handicapped, as it will in all other fields. I hope that the Committee's recommendations will include the funding of the States for the education of the handicapped in grants under section 96 of the Constitution, and I hope that the offer of the Commonwealth foi- these and other grants will not be met with the strange reception that our intention to make very substantial grants under section 96 as an offer to the Premiers received last week. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks authority for the Government to provide an additional $10m to the States for technical training facilities. The existing legislation provides for grants totalling $36m during  the  3-year period ending 30th June 1974, and the purpose of this Bill is to increase by $10m the funds available during this period. 
There has been in recent years increased recognition in this country of the need for a more adequate provision for vocational training in the various skills required in the Australian work force. Honourable members will recall the conclusions of the Australian Tripartite Mission which in 1 968 and 1969 studied the methods of training skilled workers in Europe and which concluded that there was an urgent need for a critical examination of all aspects of vocational training in Australia. It will be recalled that the Mission observed that Australian governments were not providing sufficient funds for industrial training and that the amounts devoted to technical education were small compared to the expenditure on general and tertiary education. 
The Government intends, that this situation will be remedied, and we are determined that technical and further education should receive the same consideration as will be given to the other areas of education. The Government has therefore decided to establish a commission which will examine the needs of technical and further education and make recommendations to the Government on financial assistance that should be provided to the States in these areas. I am confident that this measure will place technical education in Australia on a more satisfactory basis than has to date been the case. 
The commission will be established as soon as possible, and assistance for technical and further education after 30th June 1974 will be on the basis of the recommendations of the commission. In the meantime, the Government wishes to ensure that additional capital projects of an urgent nature are not delayed until after that date, and this Bill to provide supplementary grants totalling $10m is an interim measure intended to raise the level of assistance available under the existing arrangements. The Government's decision to introduce this legislation is in accord with a request from State Ministers of Education that additional funds be provided for urgent building projects that could be undertaken during the current triennium. 
The supplementary grants of $10m that the Bill will make available will increase the funds available to the States in the present triennium to $46m. As in the existing legislation, the funds will be allocated to the States in proportion to State population. The following table sets out the amount available to each State: 

<graphic href="083131197304046_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

The present program is intended to assist the States provide buildings and equipment for the training of young men and women undertaking trade and certificate courses in technical colleges and trade schools, and for similar courses at agricultural colleges and rural training schools. The existing arrangements for the scheme will continue until 30th June 1974, with the exception that the Bill provides that grants may now be used for the purchase of land which is to be used for technical education facilities. 
Although grants under this program have not in the past been able to be used for this purpose, this provision exists in similar States grants legislation in the fields of university and advanced education, and the Government has accepted the view of the State Ministers of Education that this program should include the purchase of land in appropriate circumstances. One consequence of the relative neglect of technical education in the past has been that the sites of the older technical colleges located in city areas are generally overcrowded and restricted. In order to remedy this situation, funds will now be available under the program, where necessary, to assist the States to acquire sites for technical education institutions. 
There are 2 provisions in the Bill which will allow the Government flexibility in bringing this program to a conclusion. The Bill empowers the Minister to authorise a payment to a State after 30th June 1974 for funds appropriated under the legislation, of amounts for expenditure incurred in respect of an approved project undertaken before that date. The Bill further provides that the amounts specified in the Schedule for any State may be varied by regulations within the limit of the total amount specified in the Schedule. These provisions will cover any situation that could arise because of unforeseen delays in State building programs, and will facilitate the transition to the new arrangements when this program is concluded. 
The proposed supplementary grants reflect the Government's interest in an area of education that I believe is of vital national concern. I am confident that the supplementary grants will provide the States with sufficient additional capacity to carry out urgent building projects until the nature and extent of the needs in this area of education can be assessed in a systematic way by the commission. While this is an interim measure, it is a necessary one, and I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is the Government's policy to increase the numbers of qualified social workers in the community and the main purpose of this Bill is to provide unmatched grants totalling $75,000 for the University of Sydney and $240,000 for the University of Melbourne in the current triennium to enable the universities concerned to increase the numbers of students being trained as social workers at those universities, commencing this year. Several other universities have submitted proposals for increasing the numbers of students being trained as social workers in 1974 and these proposals are now being considered. However, the Universities of Sydney and 
Melbourne were able to make immediate increases in the numbers undertaking thensocial work courses and the Government has recognised their response by providing additional financial assistance. 
The Government, with the agreement of the South Australian Government, has also taken the opportunity in this Bill to make 2 minor machinery amendments to the Second and Sixth Schedules to the Act to authorise a variation in the building programs of the University of Adelaide both on campus and at one of its medical teaching hospitals, the Royal Adelaide Hospital. The variations, which have been requested by the University of Adelaide and are supported by the Australian Universities Commission, do not increase the total capital grants provided. in the current triennium. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report on the survey of child migrant education in schools of high migrant density in Melbourne. I seek leave to make a statement on the report. 
 I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
Yes; on the usual basis for the provision of Commonwealth finance for State universities. 
The Commonwealth is not in a position to assess the desirability or otherwise of providing financial support for the proposed fourth university in Victoria recently announced by the State Premier because it would first wish to have the advice of the Australian Universities Commission. The Australian Universities Commission is still awaiting detailed advice from the State about the basis on which it is proposed that the fourth university should be established. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 cannot say exactly what the needs of Brisbane are for pre-school education. The Government has established the Australian Pre-Schools Committee for the purpose of examining needs and making recommendations to the Government on pre-school education. When the Committee reports, I will be in a better position to answer the honourable member's question. 
See (1). The Committee will make recommendations for financial measures to be taken by the Government towards the establishment and operation of approved pre-school centres and child care centres. 
Yes. 
Questions on Notice  (Question No. 446) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information in the detail requested by the honourable member does not form part of the regular statistical collections of my Department. However, as the result of a special survey which my Department conducted last year, some information is available on the numbers' of students from government and nongovernment schools offered Open Entrance Commonwealth . University scholarships first tenable in 1972. This shows:. 
Number of students, by type of school, offered 1972 Open Entrance Commonwealth University scholarships: 
A Number of students offered 1972 Open Entrance Commonwealth University scholarships, and 
B These offers as a percentage of enrolments in the final year of secondary schooling in 1971, by State and type of school attended. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Calculation of an average national cost per pupil in government (a) primary and (b) secondary schools has been completed. The costs are $308 and $520 respectively. I will supply the honourable member with a separate statement indicating the basis on which these costs were calculated. 
Comparable figures for Catholic and other nongovernment schools are not readily available. The Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission is currently examining the needs of both government andnon-government schools throughout Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">Information is only available on scholarship candidates and winners. Enrolment statistics are compiled by the Bureau of Census and Statistics and are not yet available for 1972. When this information becomes available the honourable member will be supplied with it. 
I cannot give guarantees about what will be done arising out of a report until I see the nature of the report. The honourable gentleman will appreciate that not every aspect of every report is accepted. For instance, the former Government did not accept the report on libraries of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education but we are now accepting it. As I have said, I am not in a position to give a guarantee about what will be done about a report I have not seen. I have not tried even to ascertain the direction of thinking of the Committee because I have desired it to be completely free to exercise its professional judgment. However, I am bound to tell the honourable member that I am certain the report will be treated as one with very great authority.  i MAKIN HULL INSURANCE 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the location, nature and development of institutions of tertiary education in Sydney, Melbourne and the Albury-Wodonga region. This report was prepared by the Australian Universities Com  mission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. Copies of the report will be made available to honourable members as soon as possible. 
 There are 2 institutions that are directly accountable to the Commonwealth Auditor-General, and they are not mentioned in this legislation. One is the Australian National University and the other is the Canberra College of Advanced Education. The position is that the moneys allocated under these Bills are State grants and the universities are accountable to the State Auditors-General. The honourable gentlemen are pushing us into a delicate area. We are trying to stand back and say that this is a grant under section 96 of the Constitution and then coming in with some sort of direct administrative action by this Parliament in this area to make the universities accountable to us instead of to the State Auditors-General. I do not feel that we can accept that, especially in view of the negotiations that are taking place with the States about future grants. 
I think most of the information which is sought in the amendment will be found out by the Australian Universities Commission or the Colleges of Advanced Education Commission in their conversations and dealings with the institutions with which they are associated in the course of their action as commissions. 
They do. 
Most of the points that the honourable member is asking for take place anyway, but there is some sense of intrusion in the prerogatives of the States when accountability is to the State AuditorsGeneral and you actually specify this. Therefore the amendment is not acceptable. 
I have sympathy with what the honourable gentlemen have said about the lessons to be learnt from this and I am sure that we will learn these lessons. But I think that they misunderstand the situation that will arise and the reasons why this legislation is only a temporary measure. Let us look at the situation in which we now find ourselves, at least 50 per cent of which is the work of the previous Government because the Budget brought down by that Government will apply up to 30th June. For this academic year the scholarship system in the universities and the colleges of advanced education applies to more than 50,000 students, and 70 per cent of the students now attending Australian universities are having their fees paid. The cost in this full calendar year of 1973 is $46.7m. We are committed to continue to honour the scholarships granted by the previous Government. Therefore next year some of the students who are the recipients of scholarships granted by the previous Government will have left, but the new system will be phasing in the payment of fees for all first year students and for the 30 per cent of the other students in universities who were not receiving assistance under the scholarship scheme. The payment of fees for this calendar year under the tertiary scholarship scheme is worth $24.3m and means tested living allowances are worth $22.4m. In addition to what is left of this, next year - and this is subject to negotiations with the university vice-chancellors, the students and so on - there will be added the payment of academic fees, and I will say a word about that in a minute, and means tested living allowances to all students. I do not imagine that any of the students who are receiving means tested living allowances now were the recipients of any part of this $3m. I think the 30 per cent of students- 
There may be some cases where irrespective of the $1,300 a year there was an additional hardship. 
But we will find out. 
This information will come to the Universities Commission. The Commission is conferring with the universities now. 
Yes, but I do not want it specified in the Act. I think it is an administrative procedure and I explained when I began my remarks why I do not want it specified in the Act. In addition to what is left of the $46. 7m commitment an additional payment for tertiary costs of about $56.5m will be made, which will be the cost of abolishing academic fees and extending a means tested living allowance to all students who secure admission to universities and colleges of advanced education. 
It will be about $23m. The means tested living allowances will cost about $23m; that is on top of what is left from this grant. There will be $10m for technical education fees and about $500,000 for private teachers colleges. So, assuming that all the negotiations about these matters are accepted and the Commonwealth scheme operates from 1st January next year, we do not actually envisage that there will be a need for this emergency grant. A living allowance will be available for all students who would have been entitled to this benefit. I presume that such students, under the means test, would be given assistance. 
I admit that a number of contradictory positions have arisen. I stress that this was an emergency. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was correct. I had an exchange of correspondence, which began accidentally, with Professor Lazenby of the University of New England. He spoke about the increased fees in New South Wales and the problem of students because of drought. I wrote back to him saying that whilst I could not cover all the New South Wales increase in fees the Government would deal with that problem in 1974, but that I was interested in the question of hardship. From that communication came this scheme of emergency grants. Honourable members may remember that in the original second reading speech I spoke about families whose income had been annihilated by drought and bushfire and so on. So we do not feel that this is a pilot project for a future tertiary education scheme. We feel that the needs of these people will be covered anyway in a system of universal means tested scholarships. 
During the course of the debate I was asked what our present proposals are for assisting students. They are for the Government to pay all tuition fees, library fees, examination fees and registration fees for recipients of a means tested living allowance. There will also be an incidentals allowance which incidentally will be more than sufficient to pay union fees. But the Australian Union of students is still questioning us on the subject of union and student fees, and we have not made a decision to pay such fees. However, under the existing scholarships, which will be continuing - the Government will honour the previous Government's late agreements - existing scholarship holders will continue to have their union fees paid. The incidental allowances of recipients of means tested living allowances will be more than enough to cover those fees. So we do not feel that there is any grievance there. 
The grant to various universities through the States has been differently administered by different universities. Some have made loans and some have made straight out grants. I indicated the circumstances in which I personally would have favoured straight out grants but I think that the information which the honourable gentleman set out certainly can be obtained by the Universities Commission without this provision being inserted in the Act and seeming to indicate a supervisory action on the part of this Government. We feel that the universities are accountable to the State Auditors-General that they have applied these funds to the purposes that the State decides following their acceptance of the 
Commonwealth's conditions as the conditions when they make the grants to the universities. 
 I would have thought from the second reading speech and from the speech of the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  who applauded the form of it, that so far as the universities are concerned this was virtually a vice-chancellor's discretionary fund, analagous to many discretionary funds they have set up out of their ordinary funds for assisting needy students. For instance, the University of New England had a fund of some $35,000 to which a grant of $63,000, I think, is to be added under this scheme. It is to be given to the university in very broad terms. I said that it will be a matter for each university to determine who shall receive assistance, but I would expect that grants would be made available to students who are in extremely difficult financial circumstances following misfortune outside thencontrol such as death, injury, serious illness or desertion by breadwinners of families on ordinary income; the annihilation of family income in flood, drough or bushfire; seasonal or chronic unemployment of the breadwinner; loss of earning power by the breadwinner for any other reason and so on. I could not envisage all the circumstances under which a vice-chancellor would use his discretion, and having said to them: 'Here is a discretionary fund for you to use on a confidential basis to assist students', we now have certain points moved in an amendment which makes the whole situation appear very rigid as far as those universities are concerned. 
There are some sections of the amendment which have nothing to do with accountability. One refers to the academic progress of students assisted by grant, loan or by any other means. In normal university procedure this exists now. Students can lose scholarships and in future, by failure, they will be able to lose their means tested grant and the payment of their fees. But they will not be able to lose this grant by failure. If they receive assistance under this provision and fail at the end of the year, this will not be being renewed next year as an emergency grant. It came about originally because of the circumstances this year in which the Commonwealth is not offering to meet all tertiary fees. The State of New South Wales produced a situation in which fees rose by  I6i  per cent, and this came as a very heavy blow at one university where the income of many families was seriously affected by drought. We have given to universities what was virtually a vice-chancellor's discretionary fund, and while no doubt a lot of this information will be available to the Australian Universities Commission the Government does not want to make it a condition of the grant that a lot of this information be sought. The making available of academic results of all students who are being assisted by this grant, as sought in part 4 of the amendment, would give the universities some considerable administrative duties which I would not wish them to have. 
There is no great point in accepting or rejecting the amendment moved by the Opposition but I think that it would manoeuvre the Government into having a seeming desire to supervise in detail what is an emergency and discretionary grant, and would take away the character of a discretionary fund for the vicechancellors which, in discussions with their leaders and the people with whom I have corresponded, was left as a very flexible fund. I have not any doubt that the institutions concerned will apply this money for the assistance of needy students. To that extent they are accountable to the State Auditors-General, and I would not want anything more rigid put in statutory form. 
in reply- First, I should like to welcome to debates on education the new voices of the honourable members for Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  Evans  (Mr Mulder)  and Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  I am grateful for their contributions to this debate. I should like to assure the honourable member for Mallee of the interest of students in technical education. This legislation deals with institutions in which 400,000 young people are enrolled. That number is approaching double those engaged in tertiary education. The funding of this triennium for which this Bill provides an additional $10m, means that the States will have $32m between 1st January 1973 and 30th June 1974. This is a much greater rate of expenditure than has prevailed earlier. 
After 1974 the funding of technical education will be the function of the Australian Committee - it will become the Commission - for Technical and Further Education. Within the scope of this legislation and also within the scope of that Commission will be, for example, agricultural education in its subtertiary aspects. The terms of reference given to the Commission are very wide - they relate to 'further education' - because we believe it could evolve a great many new forms of education. For instance, it could evolve forms of education mentioned by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  when he spoke about the interest of certain groups with whom he has been dealing. That form of education quite certainly comes within the scope of technical and further education as envisaged by the Government in setting up this committee. I would like to announce to the House the personnel of the Committee and then to make a brief comment about them. The  Chairman  of the Committee is  Mr M.  Kangan, O.B.E. who is at present  Deputy  Secretary of the Commonwealth Department of Labour. He is especially expert on the needs of all forms of Australian industry for manpower. Then there is  Mr G.  F. W. Brown,  Chairman  of Commissioners of the Victorian Railways, which is a body tremendously involved in technical education and in apprenticeship training;  Mr C.  O. Dolan, General Secretary of the Electrical Trades Union of Australia, Federal Council;  Mr P.  W. I. Fleming, Chief Staff Development Officer, Department of the Public Service Board, South Australia;  Mr N.  M. Gow,  Chairman  and Managing Director of R. M. Gow and Co. Ltd, Brisbane; Miss K. E. Holmes, Federal Secretary of the Institute of Personnel Management, Sydney;  Dr W.  J. Howse, Director of Technical Education in Tasmania;  Mr H.  King, Assistant to the Director of Technical Education in New South Wales;  Mr G.  Lees,  President  of the Technical Teachers Association of Victoria;  Mr W.  J. Paterson, Director of Technical Education in Western Australia; and Associate Professor E. Richardson from the School of Education at Macquarie University who played a very large part in the development of technical education in the Philippines. 
As some of these people are the top men in State technical education we believe that we are appointing men capable of assessing the needs of the States. After all we are discussing grants to the States for their technical education. Some of the other members are associated with business and trade unions. They are people who are especially experienced in the questions relating to training of apprentices and tradesmen. We believe that the committee is a very balanced one which will expand Commonwealth assistance and action in every form of technical education. Its terms of reference have been made very wide. They cover the subject matter mentioned by every  speaker  in this debate. For instance, they include overall manpower policy and national and local occupational requirements; the emerging needs of industry, commerce and governments as they adjust to technological, economic and social change; priorities within needs and appropriate measures to be undertaken by the Australian Government. The committee will furnish information and advice to the Minister on matters relating to the development of technical and further education in Australia, including financial assistance to the States in relation to institutions in the States. The committee has a wide range in the terms of reference it has been given which will enable its members to use all their skills and intelligence to broaden technical education in Australia and to respond to the requests of State governments and of persons who give expert attention to the whole field of technical education. As from 1st January 1974 we will also be including in our scheme the paying of fees for technical education - some $10m in the first calendar year. However, the recommendations of this Commission will take effect a little later than the other commissions because we propose that its action will start after the funding already provided for in the current triennium which expires on 30th June 1974. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
For the information of honourable members I table the report on teacher education prepared by the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. Copies of the report will be made available to honourable members as soon as possible. 
Within 3 weeks of assuming the portfolio of Education I called on  Mr Thompson,  the Victorian Minister of Education, at his home on Saturday, 6th January.  Mr Scanlan  was present at the time. The purpose of my visit was to offer them full cooperation in any joint action the Commonwealth and the State of Victoria might take in the field of education.  Mr Scanlan  took exception to the terms of reference of the Interim Schools Committee relating to the education of the handicapped. He pointed out to me that the Victorian Government had set up what he regarded as the finest committee of inquiry in the world into the field of education of the handicapped. I responded to his enthusiasm and said how valuable it would be to the Interim Schools Committee if the report of the State committee could be given to the Interim Schools Committee. I said that this obviously would short-circuit a lot of work they would have to do in Victoria. 
Subsequently I received a letter on 15th January pointing out that his expert committee had been appointed in November 1972 and that he thought it would take more than a year to report. So obviously an interim report of the Schools Committee coming at the end of May would be made earlier than the report of the other committee. With the Victorian election campaign on he wrote me a letter setting out the plans over a number of years of the Victorian Government in connection with education of the handicapped which presumably were adopted before the finest committee in the world could report on them.  His  statement that I refused is an extremely grave misrepresentation which calls into question whether one should have any dealings with him. I replied to him thanking him for the care and compassion of his letter on the needs of Victoria in the area of handicapped children. I said: 
As the points in your letter involve a plan of several years, I presume you have sent similar material to the Interim Committee of the Schools Commission, but in case you have not, I am taking the liberty of doing so. I presume, also that  Mr Hamer  will be briefed on these points for the Premiers Conference. 
I also said that there was a report of a Senate standing committee and that I would shortly be tabling the report of the Cohen Committee, which was established by my predecessors, on the training of teachers for handicapped children. I will table that report today. Chapter 6 deals with the training of the handicapped. I said: 
These, with the recommendations of the Interim Committee of the Schools Commission, expected at the end of May, should all enable the Commonwealth to act intelligently to back your efforts. 
I have the outrageous statement in the Melbourne 'Age' that this is a refusal. 
The story of the fourth university in Victoria goes back a long way and I could not propose to cover the whole field. But it was a promise before the State elections of 1970 and it now is a promise before the State elections of 1973. The Victorian Government did set up a committee to examine this question. The Committee did not report in favour of a tripartite university. It did report in favour of a university which, as I understand it, was nearer to Melbourne. But the Victorian Cabinet decided upon a country university. 
That is entirely its business, whether it is decentralisation or not. I am asked a question of fact about the approach by the Victorian Government presumably for financial assistance for this university. On 27th July last year the Victorian Government wrote to my predecessor about it and he replied that it was now the normal practice of the Commonwealth for these requests to go to the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission would be the adviser of the Commonwealth Government on the matter. My predecessor, the honourable member for Wannon, arranged a meeting of the Universities Commission and the Victorian education authorities on 13th October last year. On that date the Universities Commission asked the Victorian Gov.vernment for these points: It said that it would be unable to advise the Commonwealth until it knew the location of the proposed buildings; that it would need to know the number of students contemplated initially and the growth envisaged in the first 5 years; that it would need to know the details of the proposed relationship between the university and local teachers colleges and colleges of advanced education; and that it would need to know the foundation departments and the academic pattern. This advice was promised. 
On 5th February, not having received the advice promised on 13th October, the Universities Commission wrote to  Mr Thompson  reminding him of the advice that had been promised but not received. On 12th February the Premier of Victoria announced that a new university would be established. On 22nd February, without giving the information asked for  Mr Thompson  wrote to the Universities Commission. The letter for some reason was not received until 1st March. On 2nd March the Universities Commission again wrote to  Mr Thompson  asking for the information and had not received it last Thursday when I tabled the report. However, on 13th March  Mr Thompson  announced in the Victorian Legislative Assembly that the Victorian Government took full responsibility for the fourth university. Not having got a negative from the Commonwealth, because there had not been a request put to us,  Mr Thompson  invented a negative last Thursday for the sake of his election campaign. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on secondary education for Canberra. This is the report of the Working Committee on College Proposals for the Australian Capital Territory. 
 The House should reject this Bill. The scope of this Bill is confined to the Australian Capital Territory, so it will not touch police corruption in Melbourne. Nor is there anything in the Bill which makes a difference to the factor of poverty or the factor of wealth in a woman being able to pay for an abortion. It is unfortunate that the royal commission proposal, while it has very great merit in itself, is moved today because inevitably it will be interpreted as an attempt on the part of those who support it to evade a decision on the central issue, and that is unfortunate because the proposal has merits in it. 
Innocent human life, in whatever stage of development, should be secure from the very first moment of its existence from any direct and wilful attack. This is the essential right of the human person, without which obviously no other rights will exist for that person, lt is as valid a legal and human right for the life still hidden in the womb of its mother as it is for the life already born and proceeding with an existence independently of the mother. It is not a matter of belief that the embryo is a human person, lt is a matter of knowledge that the embryo state is a part of human growth. If I had had my eldest son aborted in the first 12 weeks of his existence he would not now be here. 
Whatever reasons there may be for drawing legal distinctions between human rights and human responsibilities at different phases of life, abortion used as a deliberate means of destroying a life, and not as a means of saving a life, is a grave attack upon the inviolability of human life, and ought to be an unlawful attack on the inviolability of human life. I will not discuss the side issues, important though they are, of justifiable abortion. This Bill does not seek any grounds of justification. It authorises the intentional destruction, ultimately on simple request, of unborn children in the first 12 weeks of their existence. The mother may be healthy and wealthy and the child in perfect development. It is enough that the woman wants it destroyed. If she is married there is no provision for consulting the husband as to whether he wants it destroyed. The widespread assertion of the need for such methods of contraception-by-killing is the measure of the degree to which social values have become callous and ruthless. 
In the Bill a 'female1 can be any age. If she is a girl of twelve or thirteen there is no provision for consulting her parents, who might surround her with protection and care, and who might find what undesirable associations have led her to grave difficulty. To the malice of an assault on innocent life the Bill in its present form adds the malice of assault on marriages and families. The humane sound that has been uttered in its defence of groundless abortion is the suggestion that it will get rid of backyard abortions. All other utterances are the utterances of a campaign to turn the law to support the malice of assault on human life, and to leave the law not fitting together, with jagged inconsistencies about honestly reporting causes of death and still births. And the Bill does not dare to utter in law what it will force in practice, namely, that the obligation to endeavour to resuscitate the life of an infant no longer rests on nurses or doctors. They are both turned by groundless abortion from being healers to being killers. From a purely medical viewpoint abortion conflicts with the only valid ideals and principles of the medical profession, namely, that it exists to protect life. 
Not the slightest evidence has been produced that Canberra has such a problem of backyard abortion that this Bill was needed to solve that problem. The Bill is not presented to solve a problem of backyard abortions in Canberra. It is presented to use Canberra as an ideological sounding board to affirm certain principles, no doubt believed to be progressive, but which in fact are utterly retrogressive. As this campaign for abortion has proceeded, it is notable that concern for child endowment, maternity welfare, reduction of neo-natal, infant and child mortality of Aborigines have all been played off the stage. The slogan has been uttered that people are pollution. This emanates from Professor Ehrlich, whose intellect was admired by some Australians recently when he visited the country, and his stated aim is compulsory abortion after the second child. Such a thing would be a logical step from this Bill. That stated aim is in his book. 
Compulsion in the first instance, however, will press on the nurses and doctors - or at any rate a pressure great enough to amount to compulsion will apply to nurses, for nurses who will not perform abortions soon find they are out of a job wherever abortion is legal. The views of the union most directly involved - the Australian Capital Territory Branch of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation - deserve consideration. The  President  wrote to me saying she had been instructed by her council to voice strong opposition to the proposed Medical Practice Clarification Bill and affirmed, inter alia: 
It is the traditional role of the nurse to assist at surgical procedures and to dispose of the product of such procedures. Experience in other countries indicates that nurses, involved in abortion procedures such as those outlined above, where the product requiring disposal is living tissue with complete identifiable human form, have suffered marked anxiety and conflict due to dichotomy of standards concerning preservation of life. 
Nurses in the ward situation delivering pre and post-operative care experience similar anxiety in attempting to fulfil their role of supplying emotional support to the patient who is frequently herself involved in conflict. 
We would remind you that 'A foetus of twenty weeks or more or weighing over four hundred grammes must be registered as a live or still birth*. 
Further, we see this Act as being detrimental to future nursing recruitment. Already we have been questioned by prospective students and concerned parents regarding the role of the nurse in this situation. 
What the Royal Australian Nursing Federation Branch here in Canberra, which is facing the possibility that the Medical Practice Clarification Bill might become an Act, says confirms experience overseas. In March 1970 Hawaii became the first State of the United States to legislate that abortion should be a personal matter to be decided between a woman and her physician. The American Journal of Psychiatry recently published an article by Walter F. Char, M.D. and John McDermott, M.D., in an article entitled Abortions and Acute Identity Crisis in Nurses' wrote: 
Within 6 weeks the authors were urgently consulted by 2 hospitals regarding the acute psychological reactions their nurses were having in response to their abortion work. 
The article goes on to comment that the symptoms were due to an acute identity crisis regarding their nursing roles caused by their abortion activities. Putting this more simply, this is an utter contradiction between the ideal which took people into nursing - the ideal to heal and save life - and being required to terminate life in a recognisable human being. An embryo of 20 weeks or more or weighing over 400 grames must be registered as a live or still birth. It is not uncommon at 23 weeks or more for the embryo to breathe and attempt independent life. The question then arises: Should the medical officer take measures to resuscitate the child or just let it die? If the child should survive, is a birth certificate to be written out, and if the child dies what is the cause of death to be inserted in the death certificate? The nurses of Canberra want to know whether a deliberate abortion is to be registered as a still birth. 
We are taking very seriously the views of unions which point out the possible dangers of fallout from French atomic tests to unborn Australian children - a danger by radiation. That danger is a matter of speculation, and estimates of the degree of possible harm vary from nothing to something formidable. It is one of the possibilities which has caused the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions to organise a world boycott of France. The Australian Capital Territory Branch of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation does not have to speculate on the consequences of the proposed Medical Practice Clarification Bill. The Bill involves the slaying of recognisable human beings. This is fact, not speculation. The nurses' organisation is the union concerned and it points out the known consequences in nervous breakdown to nurses who are called on to repudiate the fundamental motive which led them into the profession - the motive to save life. I believe that women who happen to be nurses should be liberated from this prospective violation of their nature as women and this repudiation of the very raison d'etre of the nursing profession. 
The title of the Bill is quite misleading. It does not seek to clarify the law. It seeks drastically to amend it and to legalise the destruction of healthy embryos in healthy mothers. It does not pretend that there need be any ground of poverty, bad heredity, likely impairment because of such factors as rubella, or any other ground. Five years ago when the Attorney-General, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H, Bowen)  gave an answer to a question asked on 4th 
April 1968 in this House of Representatives. He commented concerning abortion: 
It would be undesirable to have the position in this Territory so different that it might become a place of resort for people who wished to procure abortions. 
This Bill makes Canberra such a place of resort and its tendency must be to overstrain the medical facilities of Canberra. In the first weeks of pregnancy the justification for abortion under this Bill is simply demand. What is involved is a deadly form of contraception at enormous expense - contraception after conception. It is birth control literally by killing. If Parliament legalises this, it must logically provide for it under national health legislation. There is very little doubt that the Government will be called upon to pay for this most expensive form of contraception. A considerable number of women come back for several abortions. I doubt if they would be less than $150 a time in operation fees alone, let alone the social cost in hospital or clinical organisation. 
The Bill is very difficult to discuss because it has gone through constant changes. It has nothing positive to say. It is quite, uncreative to produce a Bill on abortion causing that subject to stand in isolation. Admittedly this procedure sweeps away all pretences of a humane concern for the child. Such concern would be to find why people are pressured towards abortion; how unwed mothers might have proper care and hospital attention to give natural birth to their children; the procedures of adoption; the provision of government subsidised day care and after school centres for children of working parents; payment of equal tax rebates for dependants, rather than the present system of concessional deductions; increased welfare benefits for deserted and/ or unmarried mothers; removal of legislative discrimination and positive action to suppress social and commercial discrimination against unwed mothers, de facto wives and illegitimate children. 
There are a number of disastrous consequences arising from legalising the slaying of unborn children. I mentioned the objection of the Canberra nurses to the undermining of the laws regarding the registration of birth and death. It is one of the features of our society - and wherever this feature exists it is a very vital step in progress - that all births and deaths must be accounted for. The legalisation of abortion in Britain has provided infant bodies as raw material for scientific experiments. The more developed the unborn child the more certain laboratories seek the child's body for experiment. No pretence is then made about the. fact that this is human tissue, though in other contexts there is the attempt to suggest that the embryo is not human. 
Nazi Germany used Jews and Russian prisoners of war for extremely cruel experiments. These experiments are detailed with the. greatest care in a book entitled 'Doctors of Infamy', by A. Mitscherlicke and F. Mielke The book points out that none of these experiments in Nazi Germany were worth anything in advancing medical knowledge. What they did was to debase, utterly medical standards and the medical profession. It is interesting that  Sir Alexander  Fleming and Lord Florey of Adelaide discovered penicillin in a mould and this has saved millions of lives. No knowledge and no medical advance comparable to this came out of experiments in Nazi Germany. 
Abortion deaths are deliberate, deaths, not still-births. Deaths without accountability are the quintessence of social reaction and decline. It was a marked advance in social accountability for the wellbeing of every member of society when the British Anatomy Act was passed. The abortion laws in the United Kingdom now enable the provision of subjects for medical experiments and anatomical study by artificially producing death. If it has been true, as has been stated in the Press, that crying unborn infants have been taken for destruction in furnaces, or embryos in an advanced stage of development are used for experiments, the advances in the Anatomy Act have in truth been destroyed, and I do not want them destroyed in Australia. 
There is no rational ground for creating a special abortion law for the city of Canberra. Its tendency must be either to overwhelm Canberra hospitals or to make it a city of special abortion clinics - a grave departure from the idea of a civic and social excellence as a model for Australia. Canberra is significant, however, as an ideological model. If this law is once passed for Canberra, intense pressure will be exerted in the States to follow the Canberra model. The prestige of Canberra as the model city will thus be put to a disastrous use. All of these features are insignificant, however, compared with the view of man which inevitably develops. First and foremost he is expendable. The Bill provides for abortion on demand up to 12 weeks; abortion on the opinion of 2 medical practitioners between 12 weeks and 23 weeks. You will observe that quite logically the Bill does not evince any great excitement about the misdeed of terminating a pregnancy after 23 weeks. 
Sitting suspended from  1 to 2.15  p.m. 
The idea of the sanctity of human life is, in fact, the mainspring of all social advance. I am currently trying to speed the development of child care centres. In the Northern Territory these can mean the saving of Aboriginal child life, for children in such centres are seen by infant welfare sisters and, as a consequence, their health problems are treated. Otherwise Aboriginal neo-natal infant and child mortality is as much as 10 times that of Europeans. There is less and less community passion involved in changing this situation as convictions about the sanctity of life diminish. The abortion campaign diminishes such conviction. Recently unmarried girls who have Commonwealth tertiary scholarships and who have become mothers have, by my decision, had a dependant's allowance extended to them. This is a declaration of the sanctity of life and an affirmation that the mother should have no pressure upon her, through economic need, to destroy life. 
Recently  Mr Bob  Hawke on television said that the whole of the French trade was not worth the life of one Australian unborn child. The whole of the French trade is worth $197m, so  Mr Bob  Hawke has certainly valued - and I think very rightly - every unborn Australian as a royal soul and I cannot imagine that anybody could justify the destruction of children of that value nor justify their use in experiments where they are regarded merely as human tissue. It is not enough simply to oppose abortion, we need to affirm the sanctity of life in many practical ways. We need a major effort to reduce Aboriginal neo-natal infant and child mortality. We need a major effort to help handicapped children. We need a new concern for assistance to children in poor families. We need realistic assistance for unmarried mothers - not merely the assistance of social security payments but advice about their children, advice about employment, advice about child care centres, advice about the education of their children. We need the development of community services to help the child who is battered or harmed in unsatisfactory homes. In short, we need a total program on the sanctity of child life. It is a tragedy, I think, that our attention is being diverted to how children can be eliminated when the attention of this Parliament is very much needed to how they can be advanced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some information has been conveyed to the Australian Universities Commission by the State Minister of Education but I understand that final detailed information has yet to be provided. 
Neither 1 nor the Australian Universities Commission has been advised of the proposed location of the 'administration centre of the proposed multicampus university. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. The Australian Universities Commission received some additional information from the Victorian Minister of Education since the Report was tabled. I understand this information was of a preliminary character only and is likely to be modified significantly. It cannot yet be regarded as final detailed information. 
Final proposals have yet to be provided as to the courses that will be available at each of the proposed branches of the multi-campus university but a preliminary indication of the State Government's ideas was included in the information referred to in the answer to part (1) of this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that that was the date of establishment envisaged by the State Government. 
Almost immediately. 
It is highly unlikely that it will be possible for the fourth university to open for students in 1976 unless decisions are taken almost immediately. However, the Australian Government will not be in a position to consider any proposals relating to the fourth university until it receives recommendations from the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Universities Commission will not be in a position to advise the Government until it receives definitive detailed proposals from the State Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The information the honourable member seeks regarding government schools is not available to my Department. The States are responsible for the administration of funds made available to them under the Science and Library Facilities Programs as far as their own schools are concerned, within broad general programs of proposed expenditure submitted for my approval by State Ministers for Education. Information on the government schools assisted becomes available at the end of each year to which these Programs apply, and the names of government schools assisted during the year are included in the annual statement on each Program presented to Parliament. 
I would also point out to the honourable member that the provisions of the Science Facilities and Libraries Programs do not apply to the Territories of the Commonwealth. 
(b) and (c) The lists below give the names of non -government schools in each State which will acquire science and library accommodation in the remaining currency of the Programs. Schools which are to receive further payments in respect of facilities already built or currently under construction have been excluded from the lists. 1 (b) (i) Secondary Schools Science Faculties ProgramCatholic schools which will acquire science accommodation during the period 30th March 1973 to 30th June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The establishment of a fourth university in Victoria has been contemplated for a number of years and at the time of the Victorian State elections in 1970 both the major parties announced their intention to establish a fourth university if elected. 
When the present State Government was reelected in 1970 it established a committee to advise on the development of the fourth university. 
The fourth university committee presented its final report to the State Minister of Education in January 1972. The committee recommended that the fourth university should be incorporated in 1972 and that its precise form and nature should be planned over the next two triennia, a comprehensive external studies program should be instituted together with regional centres for external studies in strategically located country towns and that an initial site for the campus should be acquired in the eastern region of the Melbourne metropolitan area with the possibility that a second site should be considered in a country area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Universities Commission received a broad outline of possible ways in which the fourth university might be developed in discussion with tha State Minister of Education on 13th October 1972. At that time the State had not taken a decision about the form of the university or its location. On 12th February 1973 the Premier of Victoria made an announcement that the proposed fourth university would take the form of a multi-campus university with branches at Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong and provided some further broad details of the State's decision. Some further information was provided by the State Minister of Education in a letter to the Australian Universities Commission in February 1973 but the detailed information sought by the Commission had not been provided prior to the tabling on 3rd May 1973 of the 'Report on the location, nature and development of institutions of tertiary education in the Sydney, Melbourne and Albury/Wodonga Region'. 
 I hope the Minister for Education in Victoria has been misreported. The Commonwealth Government has made no decision on any new university in Victoria, not on the report of the commission that inquired into universities in Sydney, Melbourne or Albury-Wodonga and certainly not on the Victorian Government's proposals for a tripartite university at Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo. All I can say is that repeatedly the Australian 
Universities Commission has asked the Victorian Government for information concerning the planning and expectations of student enrolment and many other questions of the projected fourth university. It has not yet received adequate information on which it can make any recommendations to the Commonwealth Government. As no recommendation of any kind has come to the Commonwealth Government there is no Commonwealth policy on this subject. I object to being made a stalking-horse for the Victorian election campaign, the policies being invented for us which are not in fact our policies. 
Firstly I should like briefly to answer the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson).  The honourable member will recall that I tabled the Cohen Report on teacher education in this House recently. I hope next week to be in a position to make a statement of Government policy on that report. The report deals with the training of teachers of the handicapped, with teachers' college libraries and many things like that. I am not in a position to make a statement about it at present; the matter is under consideration by Cabinet. I am interested in what the honourable member said. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  raised a number of questions. I gathered that the purport of his remarks was that the Schools Commission will be reporting at the end of this month but that there are immediate problems in education. We have not left the States waiting for the Schools Commission's report. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has announced to the States that the Government will be fully prepared to finance tertiary education next year and will release funds through the Schools Commission equivalent to what the States will be saving in not having to spend on tertiary education. In other words they know that for other areas of education they will, from 1st January next, have on offer - this is the Commonwealth offer - at least $250m. This, under the terms of the Schools Commission charter, must be additional to existing expenditure. I must say that I expected this to be welcomed. The money will be in the form of grants under section 96. I can only say that if I recited the litany to certain State Ministers it would apparently reach their ears transformed into insults. Some of them have treated as an act of aggression our offer of this money. Having made it the ground of insult, especially in the case of Victoria, they have gone on in their election campaign to make promises on the basis of the money coming to them - money which they appeared to indicate they would not be willing to accept because they called it Commonwealth control when it will simply be grants under section 96. However, to answer the very important point made by the honourable member, the States have not been left guessing and waiting till the Schools Commission makes its report at the end of this month. 
The honourable member should recognise that the Schools Commission will be dealing with 2 questions - private schools or nongovernment schools and government schools, The honourable member also will recoiled that the previous Government - his own government - made certain decisions which th present Government is honouring. Some othose decisions start operating on 1st July The previous Government had a 5-year pro gram for State schools of $167m. Spread equally over 5 years that represents $33.4m j year. On 1st July this money becomes avail able to the States. 
We are maintaining the late Government's legislation. For the private schools, $48m was provided over 5 years. This represents an average of $9.6m a year. The Dougherty Committee, which the late Government established, will be functioning for the year that commences on 1st July next, and the amount of $9m that the late Government envisaged going to the non-government schools will go to the non-government schools in that year. This is quite separate from anything that the Schools Commission will recommend. In the recurring grants range for the private schools, the position is that this year they will be getting what the late Government determined for them, namely, $104 a head for secondary school students and $62 a head for primary school students. They will get their second instalment of that on 1st July, so there is no pressure for these sorts of questions because continuity from the late. Government's policy is being maintained. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the inquiry into academic salaries dated 16th May 1973. My thanks go to  Mr Justice  Campbell, who is the author of this report. 
I point out that 2 features of the report of the Cohen Committee were the timing and the amount of money recommended. The Government has accepted the timing in its report, and the assistance to teacher education will commence on 1 July this year - not 1 July next year, as was indicated, possibly because of a misprint, in the Australian' newspaper. Financially, the Government has moved far beyond the Cohen report, which recommended that the Commonwealth contribution to teacher education over the next  2i  years should be $83.9m. 
Instead, the Government is offering the States $188m. I take this opportunity to say that the Cohen report is a notable statement on education planning, and its implementation will contribute to the quality of teaching throughout Australia. The Australian Government thanks  Dr Cohen  and the Committee for their outstanding service and the State education authorities for their co-operation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is essential that members of the Australian Schools Commission, when that body is established, should be selected for their personal capacity to make a contribution to the work of the Commission. As in the case of the other advisory commissions in education, the Schools Commission will not be a very large body, and its members will not be appointed as formally representing particular organisations. I believe that members of these commissions should be independent of any obligation, in the course of their work for the commissions, to advocate the agreed policies of particular organisations. However, whilst organisations will not be formally represented on the Schools Commission, it is certainly my intention to appoint members who have close associations with the various relevant groups, such as parents' and teachers'. 
-The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report on the Nation-wide Survey of Educational Needs was not a report that was made available to the Australian Education Council; it was a report published by the Australian Education Council, in September 1970. The material, supplied by the Commonwealth and the States, which was used in the preparation of the report was collected over a period of time ranging from March 1969 to May 1970. 
The report published by the Australian Education Council did not have a separate section for each State. The Commonwealth and the States did, however, separately release their own reports on needs. The Commonwealth reports were released as follows: 
Government Schools in the Australian Capital Territory-October 1971 
 Non-government schools throughout Australia - 
-The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question does not make clear which Government's proposals the honourable member is referring to. There has been no discussion with the Western Australian Government concerning the Western Australian Government's proposals for non-govern- ment schools. As far as the Australian Government is concerned, it is continuing the policies laid down by its predecessors and set out for the calendar year 1973. 
The Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission is currently examining proposals for assistance by the Australian Government for all forms of primary and secondary education, including education in non-government schools. 
The former Government's legislation for nongovernmental schools will continue in force. Under the Capital Aid for Schools Program a sum of $9m is available for non-government schools in 1973-74. These funds will be distributed as originally envisaged, but after 30 June 1974, the balance of the $48m provided for non-government schools under the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 will be distributed on the basis of recommendations made by the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission or the Australian Schools Commission which is to be established. 
The secondary schools libraries legislation continues in force until 31 December 1974, pending examination by the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission or the Schools Commission itself of a different system and the adoption of any such system by the Government and the Parliament. Similarly, the science laboratories grants will continue until 30 June 1975. 
The Australian Government is providing recurrent assistance tonon-government schools in Western Australia in 1973 at the rates of$62 per primary pupil and $104 per secondary pupil. These are the rates which represent one-fifth of the estimated cost of educating primary and secondary pupils respectively in government schools on an Australia-wide basis as referred to in the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second  time.  This Bill amends the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act in 5 ways: It makes provision for special superannuation arrangements for New South Wales and South Australian teachers now teaching in Commonwealth schools; it provides benefits by way of book and equipment allowance to Commonwealth Teaching Service scholars; it provides benefits by way of special financial assistance for Commonwealth Teaching Service scholars; it repeals existing provisions for officers absent from duty in relation to child birth; and it enables the Commissioner to provide, and the authorities to use, members of the Commonwealth Teaching Service for special educational duties. 
The special superannuation arrangements for the New South Wales and South Australian teachers will allow those teachers who elect to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service to transfer their current superannuation contributions and benefits without additional cost, without medical examination and without probation. In the absence of this amendment it would be very difficult for many of these teachers to transfer to the Commonwealth Teaching Service. In a large number of cases the additional cost of superannuation would be such that there would be real hardship involved in making the transfer. 
Earlier this year the Government decided that the holder of a Commonwealth Teaching Service scholarship should be given an annual book and equipment allowance of $80. The existing provisions of section 45 of the Act do not cover a benefit of this kind, and it is necessary therefore to add to the legislation to encompass this benefit. Similarly there is nothing in the existing section 45 of the Act which covers the accommodation costs incurred by the holders of Commonwealth Teaching Service scholarships who undertake practice teaching in places remote from their training institution. It is considered that the holder of one of these scholarships who undertakes practice teaching, for example, in the Northern Territory, should be assisted with the accommodation expenses incurred in the Territory. The Bill makes provision for this. 
It is proposed that separate legislation should be introduced which will provide for a Commonwealth code in relation to maternity leave similar to that which operates in other matters which apply to the generality of Commonwealth employment, for example, compensation and furlough. This legislation repeals existing provisions of the Act which relate to maternity leave. 
The definition of teaching duties contained in section 4 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act appears to limit the ways in which members of the Commonwealth Teaching Service may be employed. No modern education system can operate without the services of persons with teacher training and with teaching background and experience who have special competence in a variety of fields. These services are not only needed in schools. There will always be responsibilities in head offices of education authorities which call for qualities most likely to be possessed by members of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Examples are. educational research, curriculum development, the preparation of text materials and teaching aids, to say nothing of guidance and counselling services, including psychological and educational clinics. Other support services attached to education authorities include master teachers who can be used to visit schools and by example, guidance and encouragement raise the quality of teaching. The amendment contained in clause 4 of the Bill is designed to widen the. function of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Commissioner to meet .the requirements I have outlined. 
The Commonwealth Teaching Service carries responsibility for the education of a significant proportion of the Aboriginal child population of Australia, some of these children being taught in their own languages. Part of the Teaching Service may in future form the expatriate teaching service in Papua New Guinea, carrying responsibility for secondary and technical education there. In Arnhem Land the Service operates in one of the world's most precious ecological environments. It must work to give equality of opportunity to all children in the Northern Territory - children who live under some factors of disadvantage in their schooling. It is also the teaching force for the Australian Capital Territory, which ought to be a laboratory for new and valid educational ideas. The Commonwealth Teaching Service's responsibilities to the nation - and probably in future  to other nations - are therefore very great and its calibre should be very high. 
The steps taken in the Bill today are all steps towards creating such a teaching service. They coincide with action being taken to launch an extensive school expansion and improvement program in the Northern Territory, and with the establishment of secondary colleges in Canberra. These colleges will constitute a form of broad and high calibre secondary education, recognising in its scope and structure the adult status of fifth and sixth formers. I believe Parliament should enact this legislation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Gorton)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Final 1972 school enrolment information is currently being compiled by the Commonwealth Statistician. I will provide the information sought by the honourable member as soon as possible after publication of these details. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will appreciate that the intention in the 1970 Survey was to seek collective estimates of needs on a State basis rather than details for individual schools. Consequently there is a limit to the fullness of the record available of the names of individual schools returning questionnaires as at different dates over the considerable period that has elapsed since the questionnaires were issued in 1970. 
In any case, the most meaningful of any such lists would presumably be the list of schools not returning questionnaires at all. The list set out below  shows  those non-government schools in each State (other than Catholic and Special schools) which are shown in my Department's working papers for the Survey as being schools from which returns were not received at any stage. 
I would stress, regardless of whether or not a particular non-government school returned a questionnaire in 1971, the current situation in all States has been examined within recent months by the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. The Interim Committee's report is expected shortly. 
Names of the non-government schools in each State, other than Catholic and special schools, which failed to answer the questionnaires of the National Survey of Educational Needs at any stage: 
The Victorian Secondary Teachers' Association expressed the opinion that the Victorian Government would not be able to spend the money and the Victorian Teachers' Union has come in with a different opinion. The first thing I would like to say about the statement of the Victorian Teachers' Union is that that body is comparing unlike. The Cohen report dealt with the financial needs of institutions. The needs survey of 1969 dealt with the financial needs of institutions plus student allowances. So the amount of money that Victoria will spend on student allowances is not allowed for in the statement of the amount of money that will become available for Victorian teacher education. Therefore, the comparison is quite false. 
Secondly, I would say that the Cohen report is the most systematic study of teacher education in Australia since the Martin report. The Martin report made recommendations which included a share of finance for a former Commonwealth government which was not accepted by that Commonwealth government. The Cohen report is based on the evidence of State governments and its own study in teachers' colleges and in pre-school teachers' colleges. It is a thorough study - a more thorough study than comments by the needs survey, even though, as I have said, the two are not comparable because the Cohen report does not take into account student allowances. 
It is also quite a misrepresentation to suggest that the needs survey - and this is a persistent habit of some of these unions - stated that all the money to be found for education in Australia in 5 years was to come from the Commonwealth Government. It made no such statement. Almost all of the money that will be provided for the needs of institutions under this plan will come from the Commonwealth Government. In fact, we have gone $104m beyond the recommendations of the Cohen Committee which recommended $84m as the Commonwealth contribution. We have assumed a load of $188m. The Victorian Teachers' Union also has made comments about what we are going to do about student allowances. This proposition is for grants to the States. We are not taking over the administration of education in Victoria. The Victorian Govern ment can decide its own student allowances and whether or not students will be bonded. The proposition to grant Commonwealth finance to teacher institutions for the benefit of the State governments is not the assumption of the administration of these institutions which, I hope, will be independent and autonomous; nor does it determine any relationship between the Victorian Government and its trainee teachers which seems to be the assumption underlying the criticism. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
When introducing a Bill to amend the Australian National University Act on 27 October 1970, the then Minister for Education and Science, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  spoke of the introduction at a later stage of further amendments to the Australian National University Act to give the University power to control traffic within the University. 1 am in agreement with my predecessor on the need for the University to have such a power. The present measure is for this purpose. The Bill gives the University a general power to make statutes for the regulation of traffic and parking on the University site. It also gives the University specific powers: To appoint its own traffic officers; to regulate access to the University roads; to set up parking meters and charge for parking; to tow away vehicles; to prescribe fines for traffic offences proved in court; and where parking or stopping offences are involved, to fix a small penalty which the offenders may choose to pay rather than undergo prosecution. The provisions of a University traffic statute apply to members of the public on the University site as well as to those connected with the University, unless the statute provides otherwise. The statute-making power proposed for the University with respect of traffic control, is, however, restricted to the making of provisions which are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Australian Capital Territory Motor Traffic Ordinance. A similar provision already exists in the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act. 
The provisions of this Bill will enable the University to secure its campus from overencroachment by traffic and enforce reasonable traffic behaviour within University grounds. The University's Council has pressed for a traffic control power for some time and I am satisfied that without such a power the University will not be able to develop its site effectively or have adequate control over daytoday activities upon the campus. It is intended that the University should draft its traffic control statutes in consultation with the Department of the Capital Territory, a requirement which can be dealt with by administrative arrangement and needs no legislative provision. 1 believe that the House and the Parliament should pass this measure. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement. 
As one of the Western Australian members of this Parliament I congratulate the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  on his anouncement  that Western Australia will get the tenth seat in this House to which it was entitled at the last election. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  Mr (Lynch)  has made a great deal of play about what he feels is the trend in Western Australian voting at present.  His  consciousness of this, of course, is his knowledge that Western Australia was deprived of the seat that it was entitled to by redistribution before the last election. In 1969 the people of Western Australia voted very heavily for the Labor Party and then they returned a State Labor government. The late McMahon Government failed to carry out its constitutional duty, which it could have carried out, and it deprived Western Australia of the tenth seat to which it was entitled because of the voting pattern in the federal election of 1969 and the State election which followed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">Under the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act 1971, the following amounts are available: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">The State Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Act, 1971 provides the amounts set out in the following table for the period 1 January 1972 to 31 December 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Later information has not been compiled on the basis of the previously supplied data. Revised data which is more consistent between States is currently being prepared.I will provide this information to the Honourable Member when it becomes available. 
The number of pupils in primary and secondary grades in 1972 in government and non-government schools was published by the Commonwealth Statistician in 'School Enrolments 1972 (Preliminary)' and is shown below. Separate figures for Catholic schools are not yet available for 1972. This information is currently being compiled by the Commonwealth Statistician. I will provide the information to the Honourable Member as soon as possible after publication. 
I have not had many representations on this issue at all. I have had representations from a gentleman named Withers in the State Parliament in Western Australia, and the nature of the campaign that he is waging on this issue, I believe, has so misrepresented the means test that it is discouraging people from applying for allowances. The rate of applications in Western Australia is astonishingly low. Some thousands of application forms have been sent out but probably only about one-third of them have come back. Over 700 have received the  minimum isolated children's grant of $350 plus the living allowances. I agree that there is a problem in this area and I am having examined the question of zonal allowances to see whether the means test, which we have simply adopted from our predecessors, is realistic or not. That is something that is subject to review. One other aspect of the honourable gentleman's question has slipped my mind. 
That is the. matter which I said was subject to review. The other aspect related to the question of the States. When we launched this scheme an appeal was made to the State governments to continue their forms of assistance monetarily, their travel warrants, rail warrants and so on that assist isolated children. Not all of the States have retained them. This is a matter we will have to consider. But I urge people to apply. The rate of applications is very slow. All isolated children are entitled to a minimum of $350 and it is vitally important that all their applications come in so we can get a clear picture of where we going in what is after all a new scheme as far as the Commonwealth is concerned. 
First of all I have to apologise to the House and to the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  for misinforming him in my answer to a question this morning when I said that 700 isolated children had received the grant. As of today 1,424 applications in Western Australia had been processed for the payment of a grant and of these 384 had also received a payment of the additional grant. There are 2,100-odd applications which have been received. There have been 1,424 granted but of the 5,700 applications which were sent out about 2,100 are all that have so far been returned. That is the first thing I wanted to say. The second thing that I should like to say is that when this scheme was started Victoria's isolated children's scheme was insignificant. The maximum grant was 40. New South Wales also paid small allowances to students obliged to live away from home. Queensland had an extensive system which is continuing. Tasmania and South Australia had small schemes. All of the States except Queensland have dropped the schemes. I am not quite sure whether the New South Wales limited scholarship scheme still exists because it was not of great significance but all the States have dropped their schemes and this is contrary to our request, as the honourable member has suggested. 
The figures that were fixed pre-supposed the existence of State schemes although it was terribly hard to devise a federal scheme because the State schemes were so varied in nature. Victoria, as I said, provided an amount of only $40. The scheme is not in chaos. Of 10,600 applications that have been returned from all around Australia payments have been made against more than 5,500 - 4,400 basic and 1,200 additional. The Arbitration Court advocates would be grateful for the honourable member saying that we should allow an additional $2,000 under the means test because the State Civil Service regulations provide a maximum of $984 to income for living in these areas. I happen to know this because I am trying to study whether we can liberalise the means test on a zonal basis. We also have to liberalise the means test according to the changing value of money. But when this scheme was adopted in January we just picked up the means test scheme of the former Government's scholarship program and applied that to isolated children. So, the figure of $4,200 and the other figures at which the honourable gentleman has arrived were the figures we adopted from our predecessors. 
The second thing I want to say to the honourable gentleman is that we are not trying to run a hard and fast scheme. This is the first incursion of the Commonwealth into this field and the scheme is operating under tremendously uneven conditions around Australia. For example, Tasmania has adopted an education system in which it really has altered the nature of high schools and established certain very definite matriculation high schools. In Tasmania a child who lives near a high school normally speaking is ineligible for an isolated child's grant. But, although he may be next to a quite significant high school, if he wants to be a matriculation student he is in fact an isolated child. So we have had to adjust the scheme in Tasmania for children who want to go to matriculation colleges and we have had to assess them as isolated children on their proximity to or distance from matriculation colleges. In Tasmania 657 children so far have been paid grants. It was a change in the practice which brought that about. I am quite flexible in regard to changing the practice anywhere. When we launched this scheme we said: 'The Commonwealth has not been in this field before. We are taking the means test that was devised by the late Government'. I agree with the honourable gentleman that the means test probably has to be adjusted and I am trying to see what allowances are made under State laws and practices concerning the various zones. In no zone is it said that $2,000 extra has to be paid because of the cost of living. The maximum under Public Service Regulations is $984. If this is unrealistic, then many public servants are being deprived of their just dues, which is not normally argued by honourable members opposite. However, I will not go into that question. 
I am grateful to the honourable member for Forrest for bringing this matter up. I am sorry if my comments on  Mr Withers  were misinterpreted. He issued all sorts of challenges to me to debate this matter and heaven knows what. I did not know what he was getting at. I should not attack him because I myself have been the victim of misreporting and I am not quite clear on what he is saying and doing. However, very many people seem to me to have put a veto on themselves by saying: 'We will not be eligible for anything because of the means test'. I wish that  Mr Withers  in his statement would emphasise that any isolated child is eligible to receive $350 if he meets the definition of an isolated child. To put the barrier of the means test first causes many parents not to apply. So, if people use the universal eligibility of those who are isolated rather than the means test, I think they will help those who are applying. I want to adjust this scheme. We may have to make adjustments because of what has happened in various States. After all, this scheme was very new. I became Minister for Education on 18 December. I was under pressure to make clear to people that there would be a scheme for these isolated areas. I do not pretend that what we produced in January this year was the optimum. I want to improve it, and in this respect I am grateful to the honourable member for Forrest for bringing up aspects of the disabilities that are developing. I am trying to find intelligent ways of rectifying them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I received  Mr Justice  Campbell's report of the inquiry into academic salaries on 16 May 1973. The report was tabled in both Houses of Parliament on 17 May 1973. 
Pursuant to section 52 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act 1972, I present the report on the Commonwealth Teaching Service for the year ended 31 December 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Later information is not available to that shown in the previous answer on the percentages of students completing secondary education, as the source study referred to in that answer has not been repeated. 
The comparative rates of tertiary participation and completion per 100,000 of the population quoted in the previous reply were taken from the Unesco Statistical Yearbook for 1970. Corresponding information for later years has not been published. In the Unesco Statistical Yearbook, 1971 publication of the required rates was discontinued. However, in Chapter 2 statistics of gross enrolment at the secondary and tertiary levels, participation rates for certain specified age-groups and details of tertiary graduations are quoted. Many qualifications apply to these statistics and they are not comparable between countries.  international Agreements, Conventions and Other Arrangements  (Question No.544) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and  (2)  The scheme of assistance for isolated children is in its very early stages. Applications are just beginning to reach the State Offices of my Department. So far less than 1,000 applications have been received and it is not possible at the present time to provide details of those applications in the form requested by the honourable member. Overall it is expected that the new measures may assist about 22,000 primary and secondary pupils. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest year for which comparable figures are available for (a), (b) and (c) is 1971-72. Details of the outlay and expenditure of (a), (b) and (c) are shown in the following table. 
I am not quite sure what category of Commonwealth scholarship holders the honourable gentleman is referring to. The position is that secondary scholarships under the Commonwealth scholarship system have not been altered since they were enacted by the late Government. That Government provided that everybody who won scholarships regardless of means should get at least SI SO and potentially that could go up to $400. In regard to the Commonwealth's isolated children's scheme in conjunction with the Commonwealth secondary scholarships, without means test any student could get $150 from the Commonwealth scholarship scheme plus $350 from the isolated children's scheme which would make a total of $500. I am not quite sure whether, if he did receive such sums, the Queensland remote areas scholarship which he might otherwise have received would not become available to him and that that would lead to a loss of $100. I will have this investigated and ask the officers of my Department to discuss it with the Queensland Education Department. I want to stress, however, that according to the means of the parents, under the Commonwealth's isolated children's scheme it would be possible for a Commonwealth scholarship holder to get $150 plus $350 and the $654 of the isolated children's grant, this being the full potential for families whose means justify the total grant. I had thought that Queensland was one State which had left its own scheme intact. If the juxtaposition of the 2 schemes is leading to a loss I want to thank the honourable member for drawing my attention to the situation. As I have said, I will as&amp; officers of my Department to discuss the matter with officers of the Queensland Education Department and see whether something better can be arranged. 
 The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  made some interesting points, but when he took as his reason for the granting of representation to the Territories the enlightenment of non-Labor governments there was a certain degree of interest in the fact that he was omitting, for instance, that in 1922 the Northern Territory was given representation because it had been in a state of rebellion in 1921 and the Administrator of the Northern Territory had been put under constraint. So although they did not put a voting member in this Parliament they gave the Northern Territory a voice. The honourable gentleman referred to 1968 and the conferring of voting rights on the present honourable member for the Northern Territory. In doing so he referred to one of the most disgraceful episodes in this Parliament. It was not easy to vote against the measure and no one voted against it but it was utterly unprincipled that throughout the time when  Mr Jock  Nelson was a member of this House there was a steel determination on the part of the then Government not to confer voting rights on him. The present member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  should not have had voting rights conferred upon him in mid-term. He should have remained throughout that term without a vote and then should have gone to election when we would have had a member elected who had voting rights, that matter being determined by the Northern Territory. It was a piece of absolutely unscrupulous practice on the part of the Government which the honourable gentleman supported to confer on a man rights to which he had not been elected. If Jock Nelson bad continued as a member of this Parliament the honourable member for Mackellar knows very well that the democratic sentiments of the Government of 1968 would not have conferred voting rights upon him. So do not let us talk about that as an episode in constitutional nicety on the part of the side of politics which the honourable gentleman supports. 
It is entirely correct.  Mr Corbett  - It was confirmed at the next election, anyway. 
That does not give you a constitutional argument at all and it would not have happened, as you very well know, if  Mr Nelson  had continued to be a member. The Country Party has a very sound instinct for protecting its members, in altering boundaries or doing anything else. The other serious misrepresentation by the honourable member for Mackellar was in making the disparities between the States on the question of one man one vote. When normally one objects to departures in principle from one man one vote, one objects to deliberate malapportionment which is intended to favour a party. It does not matter much in the party sense in the Parliament that New South Wales has  12  times the population of Tasmania and that New South Wales and Tasmania are equally represented in the Senate as part of the original compact. Tasmania is not an arranged boundary to favour the Country Party, the Labor Party or the Liberal Party, nor is the State of New South Wales. So the point that is being made by the honourable member about the disparity in representation between the States has no party significance whatever in the Parliament. It is not a gerrymander; it is not a malapportionment. It is not anything other than a compact which all the Australian people voted for when the Federation was originally formed. 
Yes, but when the principle of one man one vote, one vote one value is departed from it causes damage and a lack of faith in the body politic, not if it is done to equalise the States but if it is done to ensure that the Australian people do not get the government for which they voted; when it is an arrangement to ensure that a minority can stay in power. That is the point that is objected to. We do not have to go over that. 
The honourable gentleman comes from a State which does not even have an elected upper House, and his side of politics has deliberately contrived that situation. I say to him: Do not give us lectures in democracy. I would much rather have his ancestor's bunyip aristocracy.  His  proposition was for a House of baronets. At least you can create baronets. When a government was in power without a majority h would have been able to create baronets. Instead New South Wales has an upper House the elections to which are usually accompanied by rumours about buying seats. But we will not discuss that. I think in this respect the ancestor of the honourable member for Mackellar, with his House of baronets proposal, was much more democratic than the honourable member. 
The honourable member, astonishingly, danced over section  122  of the Constitution. 
He did not read the section. He said that this, which is a piece of the utmost simplicity in writing, had all sorts of tortuous implications. The section provides: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any Territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth- 
The Northern Territory was surrendered by South Australia to the Commonwealth - or of any Territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may. allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
It states 'either House of the Parliament'. In some odd way the honourable gentleman suggests to us that 'either House of the Parliament' somehow or other excludes the Senate. As to the extent of representation the honourable member said that the High Court would probably find that that was the degree to which voting rights could be conferred. But if that is the meaning of 'extent', if it can give it to any extent or in the terms it thinks fit, then any extent or terms it thinks fit would include full voting rights. I do not think the honourable gentleman can impose upon us his rather odd interpretation of the meaning of these words especially when in the preceding paragraph of the Constitution the very expression extent of representation' is included, not just the extent to which a man may be representative, but the extent of representation. 
The honourable gentleman, of course, knows very well that the proportional representation system applying in Senate elections for the  2  Territories probably would simply cancel out in the Party sense. As I recollect, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  had a reasonably handsome majority in a small electorate, but reproduce that as a Senate vote if  2  senators were standing and the result would probably be a split one and one. Similarly I think that would be true at most times of the Australian Capital Territory. Although the present member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  enjoyed a handsome majority, if the votes of a whole lot of minor parties were added together and regarded as a non-Labor Senate vote it would probably have returned a nonLabor senator. The point is that the Territories which the Constitution does envisage as being represented in both Houses of the Parliament could very well have additional representation and have representation in the Upper House. 
Anyone who travels over that ocean of land which is the electorate of the honourable member for the Northern Territory would recognise that he has a most onerous task of representation. My impression of his electorate is that it has rather, high feelings and that there may be many people who disagree with him politically and who would not wish to use his services. When I have travelled through the Northern Territory I have always found electors of the Northern Territory rather more vehement than most people in expressing their opinions. I am not suggesting that this is a bad thing but I think people who live in isolation often develop very distinctive opinions. They do not have much clash with other minds and often the disagreements in politics in the Northern Territory are very wide divergences indeed. One of the interesting things about the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory is how, over a period of time, when people meet one another they do have changes of view which in their electorates they do not have. 
I do not think that the honourable member for Wentworth can give us lectures in democracy when it comes to discussing the conferring of voting rights on members of this. House. I repeat that the conferring of the right to vote in this House on the member of the Northern Territory when it was done in mid-term and not as a condition of the election in which he was originally elected was one of the most disgraceful episodes in the electoral history of this country. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)- I rise to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Minister spoke also of my motives in regard to the 1939 conferring of voting rights on the member for the Northern Territory and, incidentally, the member for the Australian Capital Territory at the same time - a matter which he most conveniently forgot. But I stand by what was done. It was done for both at the same time and I ask him to remember that. 
For the information of honourable members I table the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. I seek leave to make a statement on this report. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the table below which contains the percentage of students enrolled in undergraduate courses at 
universities and (b) colleges of advanced education, who have been identified as training to become teachers in each State and the Australian Capital Territory in 1972. 
I think it would be quite unlikely that Cabinet will be able to consider the report which was tabled yesterday before 12 June at the earliest. The report does set out a comprehensive scheme of training for the handicapped which I think it would be hard for any rational person to reject. For the first time that I know of an Australian education committee has made recommendations on the subject of the handicapped, setting out with the deliberate object of trying to bring the handicapped to a position of equality with the rest of the community as far as is humanly possible. To this end the Committee has recommended a program that exceeds $50m in cost. However, it should be remembered that this is in most of its aspects a grant to the States. The honourable gentleman will recall that  Mr Scanlan  of Victoria, who I am thankful to see no longer has anything to do with education, sent me a letter asking for assistance for the handicapped and setting out a Victorian scheme. As far as I can gather the current recommendations would liberate for Victoria more finance than was involved in  Mr Scanlan's  plan. I thought it was a good plan and therefore I sent it to the Interim Schools Committee. It is probable that that is the plan, in specific detail, which will be implemented in Victoria. I cannot be sure of that. But what is clear is that we are recommending grants to the States and to private education authorities to be used for these purposes. The details of the administration will be vested not in the Australian Government but in those various State and private instrumentalities. 
As I understand the reverend brother's comments, he appears to regard the report as discriminating concerning Catholics and he has announced that action will be taken in the High Court of Australia to prevent this discrimination. Also as I understand his comments he seems to suggest that Nudgee College is in some danger as a result of the recommendations. As it has been reported to me, he said that the report cuts across the policy of the Parents and Friends Association or the Catholic Parents Council and some other body. The report also happens to have changed some of my convictions. The committee was not appointed to do other than investigate impartially and make recommendations. As for discrimination concerning Catholics, the late Government's policy, taken at the secondary level which applies to Nudgee College, allowing for $104 per capita a year, to rise by 10 per cent to $114 and then to rise by another 10 per cent to $125 - the rises for the primary level would be similar - in 2 years Catholic schools would have received over $80m. In the 2 years under these recommendations they will receive about $120m. I did not know what individual schools would receive but, in view of the comments of the principal of Nudgee, a preliminary estimate indicates that they would go from $104 per capita this year to about $J20 per capita next year and to about $165 per capita the year after. If the Reverend Brother is reported correctly, I am astonished that he should have assessed constitutionally yesterday on a report which obviously he could not have read. 
For the information of honour-! able members, I present the report of the assessment panel on the Australian Capital Territory Education Authority on a design for the governance and organisation of education in the Australia Capital Territory. 
I also table correspondence which passed between Professor Karmel and me in connection with the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission and which I omitted to mention when I spoke to the hon.ourable member for Wannon yesterday. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of education expenditure are published by the Commonwealth Statistician in the publication Expenditure on Education: 1971-72', Reference No. 5.44. These statistics show details of both expenditures and outlays by the Australian Government, State and private sectors. Tables 1 and 2 of the publication show details of Australian Government outlays on education. Currently the publication has only limited details concerning expenditures by level of education. However, the Commonwealth Statistician is working towards the elaboration of a finer functional classification of education ependitures, more or less along the lines of the classification used in Table 7. Development of more detailed statistics of private sector expenditure on education is also in progress, but it is still at a preliminary stage. These developments, which are being made within the Australian national accounting framework, will provide increased details concerning the source and disbursement of funds for education and in particular for primary and secondary education. However, it is not envisaged that these developments would include the presentation of separate details of government, Catholic and other non-government schools. 
Separate details of the Australian Government grants component of Catholic and other nongovernment schools expenditures are available, as indicated in my predecessor's reply of 7 March 1972. 
On 28 March 1973, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  asked me the following question, without notice: 
Has the Minister for Education any recent information available on the number of dropouts and failures in each year of each school or faculty of each Australian university or other tertiary institutions? Can this information be made available to honourable members? Is any follow-up done of such failures and dropouts to ascertain whether they transferred to other courses or whether use is made of the training such students have received? In view of the large expenditure of private and public moneys involved with such students, will the Minister consider an investigation into the various aspects of the problem? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest information available on a national basis relates to the total full-time and part-time entry to all Australian universities in 1961. The results of this study are contained in 'The 1961 Study', published by the Australian Government Publishing Service in 1971. I will forward a copy of this publication to the honourable member for his information. 
I have asked my Department to discuss with the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education, the possibility of having further studies undertaken on  a  regular basis. 
The amendment requires the States or the colleges of advanced education to report to the Australian Universities Commission on the expenditure of money granted to them, or which was purported to be granted to them, under the emergency legislation- this Bill- when it left this place. I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)1 will have enquiries made to ascertain whether the information requested by the honourable member is able to be provided by the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$.5m. 
and (c) The Australian Pre-Schools Committee is to recommend a new program of assistance in the pre-school field beginning in 1974. Assistance presently available under the Child Care Act will be integrated into this new program. Funds for this program in 1 973-74 and 1 974-75 will be determined in the budget context and in the light of the recommendations of the Committee. 
I should like to speak briefly on this motion of condolence for the late Arthur Calwell. With the Leader of the House I think I am one of the two survivors in this Parliament whose membership dates back to the time when Arthur Calwell was a Minister. I remember that as Minister for Immigration he was an extremely kindly man to immigrant families whose cases were presented to him, as I presented some in my first years here. I remember that he showed the same great courtesy to members of the Opposition of that time in the personal manner in which he dealt with cases which they presented to him as Minister for Immigration. He had a style of oratory which I think is now extinct. I remember him describing the Opposition front bench when he was Minister as a gibbering array of pathological exhibits. I am not sure what a gibbering array of pathological exhibits would be, but I think he must have spent some time polishing that expression. 
There were 2 men who were extremely kind to me when I was first elected to this House. One was James Henry Scullin, a former Prime Minister, and the other was Arthur Calwell. I noted at his funeral that the mortal remains of both those men rest within a few feet of one another. I think there are many in this House who over the years have been grateful to Arthur Calwell for personal kindness and for many quite remarkable conversations. He was a man of very wide interests. I join with other honourable members in expressing sympathy to his wife and family. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
The purport of the amendments is similar to the amendments to the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill, and the point of similarity is amendment No. 3 that at the end of sub-section (2) of proposed section11A, add the following paragraph: 
the State will, as a condition of the payment to the University, require the University to furnish annually to the Commission statistics and information in respect of the application of the amount by the University. 
The other amendments are that in clause 3, line 12 leave out 'and' and that in clause 3, line 14, leave out 'need.' and insert 'need; and'. I believe those 2 amendments are consequential on what comes as the substantial amendment. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation "on 17th June, 1973.'. 
Since the first Bill was introduced a second Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) 1973, which concerns special grants for increasing the number of social workers in training at the universities of Sydney and Melbourne, has been passed, and it is necessary to deem the first Bill to have come into force before the second Bill. To enable this to be done a further amendment to the first Bill is now proposed. I have circulated the amendment. In place of the words This Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent' the amendment proposes to substitute the following words: 
This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on 17th June, 1973. 
This amendment to clause 2 will require the Bill to go back to the Senate for a second time for its acceptance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Motion (By  Mr Beazley)  agreed to: 
That in the message returning the Bill to the Senate the Senate bc requested to reconsider the Bill in respect of the amendment made by the House of Representatives to clause 2. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is not presently available. 
The last survey which provides the information sought by the honourable member was in 1969. The results of this are set out in Booklet No. 7 of the 'Women in the Work Force' series, prepared by the Women's Bureau of the previous Department of Labour and National Service. 
The Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics first surveyed Child Care in May 1969 and more recently in May 1 973. The results of this last survey will be published when they have been processed. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The members of the Australian Pre-Schools Committee and the Child Care Standards Committee were selected on the basis of the contribution they could make to the work of the respective Committees in the fields of pre-school education and child care. 
The Australian Pre-Schools Committee has two qualified pre-school teachers, two educationists with experience in administering pre-school education systems (one of whom was formerly a senior lecturer at a Kindergarten teachers college), an authority in child development and special education, an eminent paediatrician, and an educationist who has specialised in teacher education, particularly in the preparation of programs in early child development. 
The Child Care Standards Committee has five educationists qualified as pre-school teachers, an authority on child psychology who was a principal of a Kindergarten Teachers Training College, one eminent psychiatrist, one social worker with special experience in child care and a senior administrator in a State welfare depanment. The  Chairman  is a former Assistant Director-General of the New South Wales Department of Education with wide experience in educational administration. 
Two members of the Australian Pre-Schools Committee and six members of the Child Care Standards Committee include amongst their qualifications a Diploma of a Kindergarten Teachers' College or an equivalent qualification in preschool education. 
Australian Pre-Schools Committee, 3; Child Care Standards Committee, 6. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) This project does appear, from the submission referred to by the honourable member, to have the support of teachers in the region and to include among its objectives the identification and correction of areas of need, an aim that is obviously in harmony with those of the Government. Needless to say, I cannot grant financial support to a particular project in a particular State on the basis of a submission dealing only with that project. The Government has set up a range of advisory commissions in education for the specific purpose of ensuring a reasoned and systematic rather than an ad hoc, approach to these matters. I will forward a copy of the submission to the Secretary of the Interim Committee of the Australian Schools Commission for consideration. The honourable member will note that the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, 'Schools in Australia', contemplates the encouragement of teachers ' centres. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
No. 
2 ) Yes, except those conducted for profit. 
3 ) No; without denying in any way at all the importance of the right referred to by the honourable member, my responsibility and primary concern is to see that funds continue to flow to meet the assessed needs of the children in the schools in question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I believe that there is considerable potential for the use of school buildings out of school hours for community purposes. The Government's election policy includes an undertaking to establish large multi-purpose centres at school, which during the day can be used for school purposes and in afterschoolhours for adult education or for useful cultural or artistic activities, art, dancing, sport, photography and so on by all members of the community. I will certainly give consideration, in consultation with my colleague, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, to the steps that could be taken to implement this policy. Clearly there will be a need for discussions with State authorities as part of this process. I might add that in the territories for which the Australian Government is directly responsible, considerable progress has already been made in the matter of community use of school facilities. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Information in respect of the Departmentof Education and all authorities under the control of (he Minister for Education as at 30 June 1973 is: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question 'as at 25 May 1973 is as follows: 
(a) 119 for 'land and/or buildings' 20 for equipment; (b) 74 from currently operating child care centres 33 in respect of proposed new centres; (c) 73 from currently operating child care centres 33 in respect of proposed new centres; Cd) 139. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 25 May 1973 the following organisations and child care centres have been approved to receive recurrent grants. Claims in relation to centres at Part A of the list have been paid or are in the process of being paid. Initial claims are being sought from the centres at Part B of the list. Payment of these will be processed as quickly as possible. 
It can certainly be said that the appeals will be considered before the existence of the school's commission. A problem appears to have developed with Jewish schools in this sense. Perhaps their difficulty is that the questionnaire was drawn up by Christians and in the questions that were put they were asked to include religious teachers who are on their staffs. If you ask that question in a Catholic school, it has a definite meaning - the religious teachers would be Marist Brothers, Christian Brothers or Sisters of Mercy. In a Jewish school, apparently, there are religious teachers who do not teach secular subjects at all but who come in purely to teach religion and therefore are more in a category equivalent to chaplains. For instance, you would not add to the staff in a Catholic school a priest who came to say Mass or to act as a chaplain. The position of these religious teachers who were all put in the category of staff by Jewish schools appears really to have nothing to do with the secular structure of the schools. This matter is under review. 
As I understand the position, submissions are now being made to the Pre-Schools Commission. The States are setting up their own administrative structures. It should be remembered that the recommendations of the Commission will be implemented in the form of grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution. For instance, I understand that the South Australian Government has a complete organisation to deal with this matter. When applications come from private pre-school authorities, I imagine the decision will be made by the Pre-Schools Commission but the grants probably will be made to the States for passing on to the private authorities; or it may be more convenient to use the Commonwealth Department of Education branches in the States. I am not sure of that. We have taken steps in the Budget, as the honourable gentleman will have noted, to make sure that money is available immediately. We still await the recommendations of the PreSchools Commission as to administrative procedures and actual sums of money. I believe that those recommendations will come in good time for action to be taken next year. 
I thank the House for the support which has been given to this measure. I would also like to make a comment on some of the observations of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  in relation to Aborigines. One thing that is happening as a result of the program of education in the vernacular for Aboriginal children is a new identity of parents with the schools, and the coming into being of Aboriginal parents councils in association with schools. Recently I was at Papunya. During the Christmas holidays when the school was empty much damage was done to the school. The people in the Papunya area include many very great artists, not as yet celebrated like the bark painters, not as yet celebrated like the Albert Namatjira school of the Arunta tribe. But they produce what I consider to be some of the most! beautiful abstract art I have ever seen because everything in their paintings is a symbol. After the school at Papunya was damaged the headmaster asked some of the Aboriginal artists to illustrate Aboriginal child stories and about 12 of them did so. They are the most beautiful paintings you could imagine. They have been affixed to the walls of the school. Each artist told the children the story of the painting. It appears now that the affixing of these to the school has had the effect of making the place a sacred place. It is treated with great respect. Very often we think that we will teach Aborigines in our categories of thought instead of in their own categories of thought. As the honourable member will know, some very interesting experimental work is being done in Alice Springs at the present time on the question of how to really communicate with Aborigines, to find out not merely whether they know English but whether, when matters are discussed with them in one's own thought categories, in fact anything is being conveyed at all. 
I was very impressed at Warrabri by the identity of an Aboriginal council with the school. I was very impressed with the whole attitude of the teachers in that area. I believe that some psychological advantage has been achieved, in the respect that is being shown for their languages for the first time, in trying to teach the Aborigines in their own languages with Aboriginal teachers or teaching aids. I was impressed by the work of a young Aboriginal man of about 20 who, while he would not have the qualifications of a European teacher, is able to write Aboriginal stories for primers and to illustrate them. No doubt he will grade them. We arranged for his work to be shown at a conference in Darwin where these problems of education in the vernacular were being discussed. Some df these matters are the most hopeful things I have seen in Aboriginal education. 
The honourable member will be aware that the program for the construction of the new Aboriginal school near Alice Springs is almost complete. I think it will be quite a crucial place as indeed Kormilda College will be - in producing young people who can be Aboriginal teachers in the vernacular. I was interested to see that throughout the Northern Territory this idea appears to be treated with a good deal of respect by a good many Europeans also. I think that this section will be one of the most interesting sections of the 
Commonwealth Teaching Service. Of course, what will be written on my heart if I am found dead is housing for the Northern Territory. I refer particularly to housing for teachers. I think that if we can provide houses we can obtain the teachers. I think it is beginning to dawn on many teachers in the south that neither Darwin nor Arnhem Land is a mar.larial swamp. Some of the most attractive teaching careers that can possibly be imagined can be pursued in the Northern Territory. It is one of the most fascinating regions of the world. I am grateful for what the honourable member said. 
Question resolved in the affimative 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-I thank the House. 
by leave - At the outset I should like to say that when I am making certain statements about funds which are coming from the Commonwealth Budget there is one respect in which they are not an increase. They are part of a different way of funding. The States are receiving their share of the costs of tertiary education through grants under section 96 of the Constitution, and this amount is being deducted from the grants to the States, as agreed at the Premiers Conference of June 1973. I might mention also at the outset that the appropriations for the child care program appear in the Budget not under education but under the functional classification of social security and welfare. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has already outlined the very substantial increases which will take place in expenditure on education for 1973-74 over the previous financial year. The increases confirm the speed with which the Government has moved not only to implement announced policies but also to introduce additional measures vital to the great transformation in accessibility of education to young people, which is the Government's aim. This transformation in accessibility of education will offer greater prospects than ever before of meeting the reasonable and legitimate educational expectations of all Australians. Before I describe in more detail the elements which make up the Government's comprehensive program in education, I will highlight in summary form some of the significant initiatives the Government has taken and some of the more substantial increases in expenditure on continuing programs which are reflected in the Budget. In this summary I will indicate the outlays provided in the Budget for these items. 
I thank the House. 
I thank the House. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report entitled Expansion of Medical Education'. This is the report of the Committee on Medical Schools to the Australian Universities Commission dated July 1973. 
 I turn now to discuss in more detail the major areas comprising the Government's program in education. 
Tertiary  Education 
The Government has already announced major initiatives which will greatly improve accessibility of entry to this level of education. Improvement of the quality of education at other levels will also result from these initiatives because of the expansion and improvement of teacher education along with other areas of tertiary education. 
Agreement was reached with the State Premiers in June that the Australian Government would from 1 January 1974 take over the financial commitment of the States to approved programs for the remainder of the triennium 1973-75 in respect of universities and colleges of advanced education. The Australian Government will also finance teachers colleges and pre-school teachers colleges to the levels recommended by the Cohen Committee on teacher education. The additional cost to the Government in the present financial year is estimated at $144m, but will be more than double this amount in the 1974-75 financial year. The Government will provide a further $33m in this financial year as its share in the program for teacher education recommended by the Cohen Committee. This includes funds for the development of library materials - SI. 5m in the remainder of the triennium. The high quality and professionalism of the teacher must surely be the most vital input into the education process. While dealing with the tertiary and post-secondary measures, I must mention the abolition of fees. The Government has decided, as announced earlier this year, to abolish tuition and related fees in universities, colleges of advanced education, teachers colleges and technical colleges. The cost of this program will be S27m for tertiary fees and S7m for fees in technical colleges during the 6 months January-June 1974. 
Some innovation is to be introduced into the method of financing tertiary education to make specific allowance for cost rise. Since grants to universities and colleges of advanced education are determined from 1 to 4 years ahead of actual expenditure, these institutions find their financial resources, strained in periods when costs rise more rapidly than might reasonably have been anticipated. The Government has decided 'hat from the beginning of 1974 it will provide adjustments to approved programs of expenditure to take account of variations in costs for both capital and recurrent expenditure which were not allowed for when the programs were adopted. 
Academic Salaries 
The Government has accepted the salary increases for academic staff at universities and colleges of advanced education recommended by  Mr Justice  Campbell in a report tabled in May 1973. The increases are retrospective to 1 January 1973 and are estimated to cost the Government more than $ 16.5m in this financial year. When the Government assumes full responsibility for the funding of tertiary education from 1 January 1974 the cost to the Government in the first full year is expected to be $48m. Recommendations made in the report for a permanent tribunal to review and determine academic salaries arc currently being studied. 
Management Education 
Following a long period of indecision by the previous Government, we have decided to put into effect the recommendations of a committee of overseas experts for the establishment of a national postgraduate school of management education at the University of New South Wales. We consider it essential that postgraduate management education facilities of the highest quality should be offered in Australia and will provide the sum of $2,330,000 during the 1973-75 triennium. From and including 1976 funds lor this national school will be provided on the recommendation of the Australian Universities Commission as part of the normal triennial university program. An amount of $350,000 has been allocated in this Budget to enable the project to be commenced. Associated with upgrading the quality of management education in Australia is the need to increase the supply of quality teachers, both foi the national school and for other schools of management education. To meet this need the Government will award scholarships to enable Australian graduates of high quality to undertake doctoral studies overseas. An amount of $50,000 is provided in this financial year to enable the first of these awards to be made as soon as possible. 
Open University 
In passing I should also like to say that the inquiry set up by this Government into an open university is proceeding Submissions are being considered, and the present timetable of the  chairman  is for a report to be ready early in 1974. 
Technical and Further Education 
The Government has established the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education, which will be concerned with the complex and diverse field of post-school education, other than tertiary education. This Committee will become a commission as soon as appropriate legislation can be introduced. The Committee has commenced intensive investigations on which its report to the Government will be based. Programs of assistance arising from the Committee's recommendations will commence in July 1974. 
As an interim measure supplementary grants totalling $10m will be made available to the States for technical education during the 1973-74 financial year. These supplementary grants are in addition to the balance of the $36m made available to the States under the program during the 3-year period from 1 July 1971 to 30 June 1974. The total of $25.6m for 1973-74 will enable the States to provide urgent capital works for technical education during the interim period before assistance is based on the recommendations of the Technical and Further Education Commission. 
Primary and Secondary Education 
Legislation will be introduced during this session to establish the Australian Schools Commission. The report of the Interim Committee for the Schools Commission represents a landmark in assistance to Australian Schools. Because the new program begins on 1 January 1974, only half the growth in the first year is reflected in the present Budget for recurrent expenditure and somewhat less than half for capital programs which require longer planning. The provision in the 1973-74 Budget is $97m. The Government's acceptance of the major recommendations of the Committee will mean new programs from 1974 aimed at improving the quality of education and promoting accessibility to education. Both government and non-government schools will receive substantial additional funds to meet general recurrent costs and for new and replacement buildings and equipment. 
Special programs will promote rapid development in areas of particular need such as school libraries, teacher development, education of the handicapped and education in socially disadvantaged localities. Educational strategies and techniques must, of course, change to meet changing needs, and the Government will support programs recommended by the Committee to foster innovation and development in primary and secondary education. The special programs for socially disadvantaged schools represent an important departure from Australian traditions in public education. Supplementary funds will be made available to schools identified as being disadvantaged on the basis of certain characteristics of their catchment areas so that they can respond to the particular educational difficulties faced by groups of relatively poor children. The Government's needs policy requires that special attention and resources be devoted to the education of those groups  of  children who in the past have had least public money spent on their education because they leave school earlier and gain no benefit from expensive tertiary education facilities.  If  the revolution in accessibility to education is  to  be achieved we must discriminate in favour  of  those children in greatest need. 
Pre-Schools and Child Care 
The Australian Pre-Schools Committee, which also will become a commission, will report within the next 2 months. Detailed programs will then be developed to implement the Government's objectives that all children are given the opportunity of one year of preschool and that child care facilities are established to meet the needs of the children of working parents and under-privileged families. An amount of $10m has been provided in the Budget to allow the first stage of activities to commence in January 1974. These funds will be specifically appropriated through legislation to be introduced later this session. Meanwhile grants are being made under the Child Care Act 1972 to assist, establish and operate child care centres. Thirty-eight capital projects involving an estimated commitment of $3.1m have already been approved in principle. An estimated 1,600 new child care places should result. A total of S8.03m is provided in the Budget to cover these and other applications for capital assistance as well as recurrent grants to existing centres approved under the Act. Child care research grants will be financed by a further appropriation of $200,000. Priority is being given to applications from areas of need. Organisations and local authorities in other areas of need are being encouraged to seek grants for the establishment of child care centres. The appropriations for the child care program do not appear in the Budget Speech under 'Education' but under the functional classification of Social Security and Welfare'. 
We have increased support to the national secretariat of the Australian Pre-Schools Association ($35,400 in 1973-74) which plays an important co-ordinating role in the voluntary pre-school education movement in Australia. The Government's decision to establish a Pre-Schools Commission will necessarily lead to a review of its relationship with the Association but I have no doubt that the Association will continue to make significant contribution in the vital first stage of education. The Government's annual grant to the 6 Lady Gowrie Centres with which the Association is also involved will be increased by $44,000 to a total of $275,000 in 1973-74. These centres continue to provide observation and demonstration services for institutions training teachers and other professionapeople. 
Student Assistance 
I turn now to the measures which the Government has adopted for its program of student assistance. This is an important area and it is one in which the Government has taken major initiatives in the creation of betteopportunities for students at all levels of edi cation. The estimated cost of the program in 1973-74 is $86m and will directly involve 1 66,000 students, in addition to the many who will be assisted by the abolition of fees in teritiary and post-secondary courses. The effectiveness of previous schemes has been inhibited by the emphasis placed on competition. This is particularly true of the tertiary scholarship schemes, where for too long a student's future may have been determined by the loss or gain of a single mark. If we are serious in our desire to provide equal opportunities for all students, so that they may progress to the level of education consistent with their abilities and aspirations, then we must reduce the emphasis on competitive schemes with limited numbers of scholarships and think rather in terms of grants whereby able students are assisted in accordance with their needs. The Government's program in the field of student assistance has placed great stress upon the removal of the financial barriers to a student's educational fulfilment. 
Assistance for Tertiary Students 
I have already spoken about the Government decisions in relation to the abolition of fees at universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges. This is only the first step in making tertiary and postsecondary education more readily accessible to able students. As a second step, the Government has decided to introduce a scheme of tertiary and post-secondary allowances. Under this scheme any full-time Australian student enrolled in an approved course at either a university, college of advanced education, teachers college, technical college or agricultural college will be able to apply for a living allowance subject to a means test on family income. The new allowances will replace the Commonwealth University, Commonwealth Advanced Education, and Commonwealth Technical Scholarship Schemes and no new awards will be offered under these schemes in 1974. There will be adequate safeguards to ensure that- students receiving benefits under existing awards are not in any way disadvantaged by the introduction of the new measures. 
The conditions of living and dependants' allowances under the new scheme will be similar to those under existing teritary scholarship schemes. However, the rates of allowance will be raised and the means test will be liberalised. For students living away from home the maximum allowance payable will be $1,400 per annum, a rise of $100 per annum. For those living at home the allowance will be raised from the existing $800 per annum to $850 per annum. The level of the adjusted family income at which these maximum allowances will be payable will be increased from $4,200 a year to $5,300 a year. Students who qualify for the payment of a living allowance under the new scheme will be entitled to 2 other types of benefit, an incidentals allowance and a travel allowance. The incidentals allowance is designed to assist students in meeting the cost of fees such as student representative council, union and sports fees. Eligible students attending universities will receive an incidentals allowance of Si 00 per annum, those at colleges of advanced education $70 per annum, and technical college students $30 per annum. 
I would like to digress here to deal specifically with the issue of student union and similar fees on which I have listened to various arguments since the Government indicated that these charges did not come within the proposed fee abolition arrangements. I accept that a complex situation exists and that there are considerable inconsistencies in the present union fee situation. There is furthermore a wide diversity in the facilities which are provided under the auspices of the unions. Because of this diversity I have asked the 2 tertiary Commissions to make an investigation and to suggest guidelines as to what charges should legitimately be met by the Australian Government and what charges should be met by the students themselves. The additional cost of any changes in the present funding arrangements will then have to be examined alongside other priorities. 
In 1974 however, the arrangements I have already outlined will apply. The provision of a meanstested incidentals allowance from which student union and similar fees may be paid will ensure that those in need receive assistance to pay the fees. The travel allowance will cover 3 return trips between the student's home and the institution at which he is enrolled, provided that he must live away from home to attend that institution. It has been estimated that some 55,000 students will receive benefits under the new scheme, whilst a further 20,000 students will continue to receive assistance under existing provisions. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statement providing details of tertiary allowances available for 1974. 
 The speech of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen,)  was interesting. In the change in the royal style and titles there is eliminated from  Her  Majesty's title the words 'Defender of the Faith' and she is to be 'Elizabeth the Second by the Grace of God Queen of Australia'. That is the expression that is used. The honourable member for Moreton spoke of  Sir Robert  Menzies.  Sir Robert  Menzies always held that the Monarch was the Monarch of Australia by virtue of being Monarch of the United Kingdom, and in 1939 he held that this country had no right to declare war or peace. We entered the war of 1939 on the ground that the Crown of the United Kingdom was at war, Australia entered the Second World War on precisely the same basis as the Rock of Gibraltar and in precisely the same way as a Crown colony. 
The evolution of the Commonwealth since that time would make such an assertion by the United Kingdom Government most inappropriate. When the United Kingdom goes  to  war or peace the Crown acts on the advice of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. It is therefore inappropriate to go on asserting that the Crown has authority over Australia by virute of being Crown of th.e United Kingdom. There is an illogicality in the title in that we are calling her 'Queen Elizabeth II'. There was no Queen Elizabeth I of Australia. The first Elizabeth reigned without Australia, some hundreds of years ago. But we would not want to wake up the Scottish controversy by trying to suggest that  Her  Majesty was Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom and Queen Elizabeth I of Australia. So the illogicality of 'Queen Elizabeth II of Australia' remains. 
The honourable member for Moreton has given some attention to the Monarchy. I believe that there is one remaining function and a very important remaining function of the Monarchy; that is, that it is a focal point of allegiance. If the wielders of practical political power also become the focal point of allegiance, then they can become very dangerous. Hitler was an example of a person who both wielded practical political power and was the focal point of allegiance. Insofar as the Monarchy therefore is the focal point of allegiance without wielding practical political power, it acts as a lightning conductor; it stops the people who are wielding political power assuming that they are permanent. The permanency in the Constitution is in the Crown. 
The Commonwealth of Nations, in the main, is evolving towards republicanism. If one looks at the most recent monarchies of Europe, one notices a curious thing, namely, that they all seem to be oceanic; they seem to be on the edge of the continent. I think of Holland, Belgium, Greece until quite recently, the Scandinavian monarchies and the United Kingdom. If we look at Asia we notice the same phenomenon in regard to Japan and Thailand. It seems that monarchies in central continental positions become primarily associated with the headship of a military force and as time goes on in the wars of continents this tends to discredit monarchies. It was war that destroyed the central European empires and almost destroyed the Japanese. Empire in 1945. But, it seems to me that if the country is oceanic and depends mainly on naval defence which does not press down on it the monarchy does not become completely identified with militarism and therefore monarchies have survived better in fringe or oceanic countries around the world. 
The expression 'Defender of the Faith' is quite inappropriate in Australia. Pray what faith did their Majesties defend? They were once emperors of India. What faith were they defending in India? I suppose Hinduism. What faith were they defending in Ceylon? I suppose Buddhism. What faith were they defending in Ireland? I suppose an established church, established against the will of the majority of the people for many hundreds of years. It is a title retained by Henry VIII without any controversy whatever about the authorship of documents. Thomas More did write the book and, like a good courier, always elaborately attributed it to Henry VIII. More was the foremost scholar of Europe. Henry got the credit, which was normally the position of a medieval monarch, and he also got the title from the Pope. Henry's writing of the book was rather like a definition of a university lecturer in my youth - the process by which the notes of the lecturer became the notes of the student without passing through the mind of either. The ideas of Thomas More were subscribed to by Henry VIII without passing through his mind and he very quickly turned around on all the principles that he espoused in the book and for which the Pope had honoured him; but the title Defender of the Faith' continued. 
Some years ago when the late Liberal Government proposed to take 'F.D.' off the coinage, and did in fact take 'F.D.' off the coinage, there was a considerable stir in certain clerical circles. The title 'Defender of the Faith' this time has been dropped without any stir in any circles at all. I agree that this is an occasion the significance of which should be noted. It is an assertion of the separateness of the Crown of Australia, the distinctiveness of the Crown of Australia and the concept of a Crown acting on the advice of the Australian Government. We rarely, of course, have dealings directly with the person of the Monarch. The representative is the GovernorGeneral. But this is an appropriate assertion of Australia's nationhood at this time. 
The honourable member for Moreton reverted to his interest in the implications of Britain entering the European Common Market. I suppose that the monarchies of Luxembourg, Belgium and Holland now are all subordinate to a new concept in Europe and that the Monarchy of the United Kingdom may become subordinate to some sort of authority in Europe. That, however, does not involve the Crown of Australia. I think it is appropriate at this point of time to make the changes in the royal style and titles which we are making. 
Briefly I would like to thank the House for its support of this Bill. 1 think the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  may have spoken on the Bill which established the Australian National University. If he did not then I am the only survivor in the Parliament who did speak on that Bill many years ago. When we set up the Australian National University we believed that we were establishing a university with a very generous campus because in those days the students came on bicycles or mostly in public vehicles and if there were cars they were the cars of the staff. Those days have been quickly lost to active consciousness. Today we have within university campuses major parking problems. There are some students who expect to have a parking space outside the college and a parking space outside the library 200 yards away and to drive their cars on the campus from one parking space to another. 
Universities have reacted to this situation in different ways. I understand that the University of Stellenbosch in South Africa has given up in despair and has banned all motor vehicles from the university. It has converted all parking spaces back into gardens and decreed that the students come to the university by public transport or by walking. They do not bring their cars into the university campus. I understand that this has greatly beautified the campus and although most of the students are enthusiastic supporters of the improvement of the environment they have some reservations about these happenings. That is one solution to the problem. The other, in the some hundreds of acres of campus of the ANU, is the power to regulate traffic quite stringently. That step has been taken in this Bill. It has been, I think, solely motivated by one idea, and that idea is that of the comfort and convenience of everybody and the retention of the University as a beautiful site. I thank the House for supporting this measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The same educational facilities are available to these Australian students as are available to all other Australian students. There are no restrictions imposed because of Aboriginality; on the contrary, special efforts are made to adapt the curriculum of schools and pre-schools in distinctive Aboriginal communities to the needs and the background of the children living in these communities and special efforts are made to encourage Aboriginal children throughout Australia to continue through secondary school and to go on to tertiary education. 
An example of adaptation of the curriculum is the bilingual education program introduced this year in certain schools in the Northern Territory. A similar program is in operation in South Australia and interest is being shown elsewhere. Extensive development of special pre-schooling facilities for Aboriginal children throughout Australia has been supported financially and otherwise by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Since the 1967 Referendum that Department has made grants to the States for special Aboriginal education projects ranging from pre-schooling to adult education totalling $6,798,000. Students are encouraged and assisted to persevere in their education by the Aboriginal Secondary Grants Scheme and the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme, administered by my Department, which offer financial assistance on a non-competitive basis to all students of Aboriginal descent in secondary and tertiary courses. 
In all States, education is compulsory for children between certain ages whether they are Aboriginal or not, and the conditions for exemptions granted on such grounds as remoteness or physical or mental disability also apply to all children. The specific information on this matter, as provided by State education authorities, is as follows: 
New South Wales: Under the Public Instruction (Amendment) Act schooling is compulsory for all children, including all Aboriginal children, in New South Wales between the ages 6-15. 
Victoria: School is compulsory for Aboriginal children as it is for all children. 
Queensland: The provisions of the Education Act in Queensland apply to all Aboriginal children as well as white children. Schooling is therefore compulsory for them within the Act (i.e* with considerations for remoteness and physical or mental disability). 
South Australia: All children are under compulsion in this State. Modifications to this occur in cases of truancy and long absenteeism. These cases are considered on merits, bearing in mind the circumstances in which the child lives, especially with regard to Aboriginals living in tribal areas. 
Western Australia: No distinction is made between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal school pupils in Western Australia for purposes of enrolment. 
Thus all Aboriginal children who are six years of age or more, and less than school leaving age, are required to attend school. Such requirements are subject only to Education Department Regulations regarding distance of child's home from school. 
Tasmania: No distinction is made between children of Aboriginal descent and other children. Education is compulsory for all children from 6 to 16 with provision for exemption at an age earlier than 16 in certain circumstances common to all students. 
In the Australian Capital Territory, as the law stands at the moment, the position is the same as in New South Wales. 
The present legal position in the Northern Territory is that no children are under compulsion to attend school. My Department is reviewing the existing legislation governing the education of children in the Northern Territory 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian National University Act 1946-1971, I present the report of the Council of the Australian National University for the year ended 31 December 1972. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has raised this question of the correspondence passing between me and the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. 
I am not privy to the correspondence of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam);  so I cannot answer that question. I have no reason to believe that the Prime Minister corresponded with Professor Karmel other than at the time when the Prime Minister was Minister for Education in the period of the first Whitlam Government. 
The essential point of this misrepresentation about an alleged instruction to phase out certain programs is this: There were existing programs which the late Government intended to phase out. It had made a decision to phase out its science and libraries programs. The Karmel Committee, in making recommendations, needed to know a whole series of things. It needed to know whether this Government intended to continue the $48m over 5 years that the late Government had decided to allocate to private schools. It needed to know whether this Government intended to continue the $167m over 5 years that the late Government had determined for state schools. It needed to know whether this Government intended to continue the late Government's science program or libraries program. 
The expression 'phase out', used in this letter, was an indication to the Committee that this Government intended to phase out those programs precisely as the late Government intended them to be phased out and on the same date. Let me read the relevant section of the letter. It says: 
Under the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972 provision was made for capital grants for government schools totalling $167m and for non-government schools totalling $48m over the 5 years commencing July 1973. In accordance with an undertaking we have given to the States, the grants for capital facilities in government schools will be made available as contemplated in the legislation. For the purposes of the Interim Committee those grants should be regarded as existing Commonwealth commitments. For the nongovernment schools the first year's instalments will be made available under the Dougherty Committee mechanism. However, for the remaining 4 years commencing July 1974 the allocation of the capital moneys for non-government schools under the Act will be as recommended by the Schools Commission. 
In an earlier part the letter stated: 
We will honour as firm commitments offers of specific amounts for individual projects for science facilities in non-government schools which have been made for each year of the present program to its conclusion on 30 June 1975. The sums available for government schools under this program will be paid to 30 June 197S also. Beyond that date it will be for the Schools Commission or, in the shorter term, the Interim Committee, to consider the treatment of science facilities in both government and nongovernment schools. 
Some non-government schools had been informed by the previous Government that additional grants, up to the total reasonable cost of a project already approved, would be made available provided Parliament agreed to extend the program and provided sufficient funds were available. We will not make any automatic provision for these additional amounts because under our system these projects should be considered by you in the context of overall educational needs and priorities. 1 have asked my Department to provide you with information about these projects'. 
In speaking about the legislation, the honourable gentleman is speaking about legislation that has not been introduced into this Parliament. The final decision on the recommendations in the Karmel Committee's report rests with the Parliamentary Labor Party when it meets to consider the legislation. I am sure that it will be sensitive to the Party's obligations. 
There is no secrecy about the index. It is interesting that newspapers which have sent men to discuss this matter with the officers who compiled the index for each school have been satisfied on that score. 
The schools are told what their classification is. If they ask for the calculation they can be given it. The honourable member probably has seen the report that has gone out. The essence of the Karmel exercise is this: The Committee took the average level of state schools, on information provided by the State governments, as 100. Using the same method of analysis of resources as provided by the schools, the non-government schools ranged from 40 to 270. It is the object of the Karmel Committee over 6 years to raise all schools to a level of 140 compared with the present index level for state schools of 100. This will cost $2, 000m over 6 years. A school may be beyond 140 per cent of the present state schools index of 100. If it is, it is classified A. If it is below 67 per cent of the state school resources, it is classified H. The gradations go through B, C, D, E, F and G to H, which is the lowest. Category A schools are those whose indices are more than 140 now. 
I am glad that the honourable gentleman had something to say about this. The Labor Party has gone through a certain amount of suffering. There were Liberal Party documents forged as Catholic documents in Queensland and circulated throughout Australia. The honourable gentleman will remember that because he had to repudiate them. It became necessary as the honourable gentleman's publication was representing me as attacking schools - Catholic schools in particular. The pamphlet was designed for circulation under windscreen wipers of cars parked outside churches when Mass was being held and not for any other type of circulation. It was so used. Kevin Cairns was stupid enough to put it on Commonwealth stationery, and that exposed the whole thing. The Government has not launched an attack on the private schools, as the honourable gentleman says. It was the habitual policy of his Government to give twice as much to the non-government schools as to the state schools. In the last biennium of the McMahon Government, 1971 and 1972, allup grants to state schools by that Government totalled $40. 5m, That covers everything. These are my figures. In 1971 and 1972 the all-up grants to the non-government schools - science laboratories, recurring grants, anything one likes to name - amounted to $71. 5m. This year under the previous Governments system, grants to state schools would be $34m and grants to private schools $57m all-up. 
That is not a complete fabrication. Those are the correct figures. 
Under the Karmel proposals if you allocated proportional to enrolment a share of the unallocated $20m that is mentioned in the report, the all-up grants to private schools are $195m and the all-up grants to government schools are $495m. What was the secret index which gave the same flat rate grant to Melbourne Grammar, where the fees are $1,226, and Kiernan School where the fees are $40? Was that secret fomula callous indifference to the needs of children? That was the secret formula. This is an attempt to weight grants according to need for both government and non-government schools. The final decisions on the Karmel report and all the details of the legislation rest with the Parliamentary Labor Party, which will consider them when the legislation is before the House. I still affirm my belief, and do not retreat from it as a personal conviction, that I uttered in this House on 30 May. The decisions in these matters in the last resort rest with the Parliamentary Labor Party. The honourable gentleman of course never quotes the speeches of 26 September. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act 1967-1970, I present the report of the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education for the year ended 31 December 1972. 
I am not sure whether the Karmel Committee, in considering the position of staffing in non-government schools, recognised the fact that promotions in nongovernment schools tend to be on the spot instead of by teachers transferring from school to school, and therefore there would be a tendency for there to be a rather higher level of salary. All of these matters are being raised with the Committee when bodies are lodging appeals. That may be a question of substance that the Interim Committee would not be able to vary, but the matter can be put to the schools commission which I expect will come into existence very shortly; the legislation to establish it will be introduced into the Parliament very shortly. A lot of these matters are being considered at the present time. The actual appeals, if they are put in well and intelligently and are not put in just on the basis of mistakes, can help one to make adjustments to criteria for the future. 
The understandings with the States on the matter of assistance for the education of isolated children have actually been the work of officers of the Commonwealth Department of Education and the State education departments. I had the impression that New South Wales did not have a scheme of assistance for isolated children at all and that assistance was given to isolated children on the basis of their winning scholarships but not on the basis of remote residential location. We did not ask any State to vacate the field if it was taking action to assist the education of isolated children. On the contrary, I asked that those who were giving a measure of assistance should continue to do so. We were particularly concerned about those States which gave a measure of assistance for residents in hostels, because the physical provision of boarding facilities was very important. Certainly no State was asked to move over. 
As the honourable member for Barton said, the late McMahon Gov* eminent did make adjustments in the Commonwealth senior secondary scholarship scheme and increased the number of scholarships. There are now tenable 24,542 scholarships of 25,000 offered, 72 per cent of which are at the minimum amount of $150, 19 per cent at the maximum amount of $400, and 9 per cent lying somewhere between those figures. At present, when the means test is applied, the point at which the scholarship begins to reduce is at $4,200 a year adjusted family income, and the point at which the minimum grant of $150 is made is at $5,375 adjusted family income. This means test will be liberalised next year. The figure of $4,200 will be raised to $5,300 and the figure of $5,375 will be raised to $6,475. It is possible that among the 19 per cent who are getting the maximum allowance, and the 9 per cent between the minimum and the maximum, there are students who could possibly have not continued a secondary education without the scholarships. Before these adjustments were made a survey by the Australian Council of Educational Research in 3 cities suggested that that figure was only about 3 per cent so it is probable that with the increased number of scholarships and the new system of means test introduced by the Labor Government, more students who need assistance will receive it. 
However, there are many other students who need assistance and the honourable gentlemen will recall that we have introduced a form of scholarship assistance for children of parents whose income is a long way below the national average. There are some 10,000 children of widows, deserted wives, invalid and age pensioners and others who have struggled through to the fifth and sixth forms. Next year they will receive an allowance of $304 to assist them to continue their education. The whole system of Commonwealth senior scholarships is being kept under review. I believe that this will be the last time there will be an examination for this system. We have under consideration ways in which students who have great need can be assisted. The honourable gentlemen will recall that our scheme for isolated children varies between $350 and $1,004 according to need. We believe that greater assistance to those who have a battle to get through secondary education is needed. These are the lines on which the Government is thinking at present. 
The Victorian Government passed the legislation setting up this  system  before I became Minister for Education so there were no negotiations between me and the Government of Victoria. The State Colleges (Victoria) Act was passed in 1972. Under the system an interim senate has been established to govern all the teachers colleges in Victoria independently of the Department of Education and an academic board has been established to make recommendations on standards of education, examinations and the awarding of degrees. When the Cohen Committee was set up by the McMahon Government to look at the whole question of teacher education it accepted this situation. The present Government has accepted the Cohen report. We are taking responsibility for all teachers colleges to this degree. The Commonwealth is to spend in  2i  years $188m on teacher education. We will be financing the recurring costs and the capital costs of teacher education. 
I believe that discussions have taken place over a period of time between the Victorian Government and the committee set up by the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. The honourable gentleman asked me for a personal opinion. In a situation where there is a multi-campus institution there can easily  bi  wasteful duplication but we are not assuming control of Victorian teacher education - merely financial responsibility for capital and recurring costs. I believe it is desirable for teacher training to. take place in universities and colleges of advanced education in order that trainee teachers may have association with people training for other professions. However, this is not something which the Commonwealth Government can impose on any State government. I believe that teacher education in Australia has to evolve over the coming years into something which is more effective than we have known in the past. That will be a matter for discussion between the Commonwealth and the States. The Commonwealth is not assuming a centralised power in this matter when assuming the obligation to finance the system. Constitutional responsibility still rests with the States. 
Firstly I would like to say to the honourable member that the isolated children's scheme is undergoing assessment at the present time by officers of the Australian Government's Department of Education and the various State governments. About 11,100 families are receiving assistance under the isolated childern's scheme and this involves about 15,500 children. Of the 15,500 children concerned, about 1,500 are doing correspondence work at home and 14,000 are boarding. Of the 11,100 families receiving assistance, about 4,223 families, or 40 per cent, are receiving more than the basic $350. They are getting up to $700. The Australian Government's Department of Education has sent circulars to about 2,800 families indicating that possibly they are entitled to the further additional assistance of $304 for secondary students or $200 for primary students beyond the $700. About $9.5m is the estimate of the expenditure in this field in the present financial year. I point out to the honourable gentlemen that that sum is in the Budget. 
As far as children doing correspondence work are concerned in my statement on the Government's initiativies in education I drew attention to the fact that under an international agreement there is to be a change of transceiver. That change is required by December 1977. The Australian Government at present is allocating $100,000 a year to enable families on correspondence who use transceivers to turn over to the new transceiver. The scheme includes reimbursement for those who hire transceivers and do not desire to buy them. This has had important effects in rural districts. I think it is of interest to know that Tasmania has more claimants than has South Australia, for instance, and Tasmania, possibly because of the relatively depressed condition of the fruit industry, is receiving a somewhat higher proportion of the additional grants to assist the children in that State to go and board in order to get an education. 
Accommodation at the Canberra Technical College is giving rise to concern. I am sure that the honourable gentleman would have noticed one suggestion that the Griffith infants school should be used by the Canberra Technical College. I think there were various reasons why that was undesirable. The sort of accommodation needed for technical education can be very varied. There are aspects of technical education which require factory type accommodation. There are other aspects of technical education which simply require ordinary classrooms. I understand that my Department is now considering the acquisition of a factory for use by the Canberra Technical College and that this would relieve accommodation shortages. The Department is looking also at facilities in schools where enrolments have fallen dramatically and where it would be appropriate to provide some accommodation for technical classes. There is, however, the need to enlarge and expand the Canberra Technical College, and that is the primary solution to this problem. However, it cannot be done as quickly as possibly temporary accommodation can be acquired. I want to assure the honourable gentleman that I am concerned that the Canberra Technical College should be able to continue to provide the service it has provided for residents of Canberra and residents of the surrounding districts. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1969-1972 which provides for the 1970-72 triennium. The Bill provides for certain minor variations to projects listed in the Second Schedule to that Act. This Bill will finalise arrangements for that triennium and will amend the principal Act by expressing accurately how the expenditure in the Second Schedule was allocated. 
In the closing stages of the 1970-72 triennium. submissions were received from New South Wales and Victoria seeking the inclusion of 3 new projects in the Second Schedule to the Act. Two of these proposals were approved by the previous Minister for Education and Science and one by myself. Confirmation of details for one of the projects concerned has only recently been received. The new projects, which will be funded by the transfer of grants previously allocated, are specified in clause 3, paragraphs (a), (e) and (f), for the New South Wales Advanced Education Board, Prahran College of Technology and the Emily Mcpherson College respectively. The other previously listed projects which are specified are those from which the funds are to be withdrawn or other projects which were the subject of funds transfers within the triennium. I would mention for the benefit of honourable members that, under the terms of the Act, any grant made by the Australian Government in respect of a project listed in the Second Schedule, but not completed by 31 December 1972, is a grant made conditionally upon the State concerned having advanced its share of the cost of that project before the end of the triennium. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1972-1973 - which deals with the 1973-75 triennium - so as to extend its terms to the provision of financial assistance for all State teachers colleges, and for pre-school teachers colleges, as from 1 July 1973. The Bill also makes provision for special grants in respect of the acquisition of library material, the employment of library staff, the conduct of special education courses, and the allocation of a further special grant of $425,000 to fund in 1973-75 the increased enrolments of pre-school teacher trainees. 
I recently stated in this House that, in the view of the Government, the high quality and professional skill of the teacher were crucial to the process of education. The Bill now before the House demonstrates, in a practical manner, the Australian Government's concern for enhancing the quality of teacher education for teachers in all Australian schools. Honourable members will be aware that the Bill has its origin in the recommendations of the Report on Teacher Education prepared by the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. The Commission's inquiry commenced in October 1972. On assuming office the present Government wished the inquiry to proceed to finality in the belief that it represented a belated recognition by the Commonwealth of the importance of the contribution made by teachers colleges. The Government considered that the scheme for Commonwealth assistance of teachers colleges in the past was little more than a token gesture and believed that it had an obligation to ensure that adequate funds were available to these institutions to meet the costs of their capital development and their recurrent needs. 
The Government accepted the Commission's recommendations in entirety including the recommendations for special grants for the particularly worthy purposes of accelerating the development of teachers college libraries, of fostering research into aspects of teacher education, of increasing the numbers of students undertaking courses to prepare teachers for handicapped children, and of extending teacher education facilities in existing colleges of advanced education. Moreover, the Government decided to amplify the Commission's recommendations. The report called for a program of $2 10m for the development of teacher education in the former State teachers colleges, the pre-school teachers colleges and in existing colleges of advanced education during the period July 1973 to December 1975. Of this amount the Australian Government contribution under the existing system of matching State-Federal grants would have been $86m. However, following the offer by the Australian Government to the States to finance tertiary education completely from January 1974, our contribution will become one of $188m. Further, by applying to teachers colleges the same arrangements as will apply to universities and colleges of advanced education, the teachers colleges will be brought fully within the community of tertiary institutions. 
The Bill before the House, in providing for the Government's decisions, integrates the teachers colleges completely within the framework of the advanced education legislation. I would draw to the attention of honourable members the fact that the Bill has been pre pared on the basis of. existing financial arrangements. Later in the sittings a further Bill will be introduced to. provide for the new financial arrangements proposed for implementation from January next. The SI 0.29m set down in the report for pre-school teachers colleges was on the basis that these institutions become self-governing under the general supervision of appropriate co-ordinating bodies in the States. However, the Government will make available its share of the recommended grants without this qualification. If the Parliament enacts later in this session the legislation to which I have just referred, the Australian Government will meet $9.17m of this cost of $10.29m. 
Earlier this year the Government allocated $100,000 to increase the number of pre-school teachers in training. This grant will meet the cost of the additional trainees from January to July 1973. In conjunction with its decisions on the Commission's report the Government agreed to provide a further $425,000 to meet the continuing cost of these additional preschool teachers in training until December 1975. Subsequent to the teacher education report I have, at the request of State authorities, agreed to certain revisions to the building and other projects to be supported at Goulburn Teachers College in New South Wales and and Secondary Teachers College in Western Australia and the changes are incorporated in the Bill. Further consideration is being given to projects proposed for Sydney Teachers College. 
The revised Schedules in the Bill incorporate certain variations to the program for the previously listed colleges of advanced education. These variations have been requested by the States. They involve the transfer of funds rather than additional grants, and they have been approved by myself or the Commission under the appropriate sections of the Act. The colleges concerned in the first Schedule are Caulfield, Footscray, Gordon, Preston and Royal Melbourne Institutes of Technology; Gippsland and Warrnambool Institutes of Advanced Education; and, Victorian College of Pharmacy. In the second Schedule they are Mitchell College of Advanced Education, the New South Wales College of Paramedical Studies, Footscray and Gordon Institutes of Technology, Gippsland and Warrnambool Institutes of Advanced Education, Victorian College of Pharmacy and Torrens College of Advanced Education. 
In commending this Bill to honourable members I would advise them of two other developments in teacher education likely to lead to other measures that will be presented for their consideration in due course. First, consequent upon the Commission's report on teacher education and the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission I have written to the Chairmen of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education and the Australian Universities Commission asking them to report to me on the grants that should be made to ensure that adequate provision is made for the training of teachers of handicapped children. Second, honourable members are aware that the Commission's report on teacher education was limited to a consideration of the needs of the former State teachers colleges and pre-school teachers colleges. As teachers colleges are now becoming autonomous the desirability of a diversity of basic approach to education makes it opportune to consider the value of private teachers colleges. Pre-school teachers colleges are. private institutions in many cases. The Australian Government's policy of full financial support for tertiary education makes the support of private teachers colleges a logical step. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 828. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), '.!) and (3) The Australian Universities Commission is, a statutory authority, established to promote the balanced development of universities in Australia and it makes recommendations to the Government with respect to financial assistance that should be granted to universities. Submissions made to the Commission are regarded by the Commisison as being confidential to it, and it is not the practice of the Government to make these submissions, or any details of their contents, publicly available. How/vcr, the honourable member might like to approach the Victorian Minister of Education and seek a copy of the submission from him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to (be answer to Question No. 828. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) On 10 August 1972, the then Minister for Education and Science, the  Hon.  Malcolm Fraser, wrote to the Victorian Minister of Education, the  Hon.  L. H. S. Thompson, advising that the Victorian Government proposal for the establishment of a fourth university in that State would need to be considered by the Australian Universities Commission which advises the Australian Government on proposals for new universities.  Mr Fraser  also advised  Mr Thompson  that the  Chairman  of the Australian Universities Commission would be getting in touch with him to arrange a meeting to discuss the matter. Subsequently, on 13 October 1972, a meeting was held between the Commission and the Victorian Minister of Education who was accompanied by representatives of the Victorian Education Department. At this meeting it was agreed that the Victorian Government would provide the Commission, as soon as possible, with a detailed submission concerning the proposed fourth university. On 5 February 1973. 8 March 1973. and 7 June 1973, the  Chairman  of the Commission wrote to the Victorian Minister oi Education asking for detailed information on this proposal. However, it was not until 31 July 1973 that the Commission received a detailed submission from the Victorian Government. 
 I thank the honourable gentleman for raising this subject because I think it will give me a chance to dissipate certain misconceptions. Let us be perfectly clear about this question of boarding. Many schools have put in mistaken returns exactly on this element, and the consideration of these in appeal will no doubt change their classification. To illustrate this, I take the instance of, say, a house master who spends seveneighths of his time with the boarders and one-eighth with his teacher. He may have been put in the return and his full salary put in as a teacher. Let us say he was receiving $10,000 a year. If seven-eighths of his time was spent in the boarding school, looking after the children in resident and only one-eighth of his time as a teacher, he would not be worth $10,000 as a resource of that school but only $1,250. If he was put in the return as a full member of the staff, that would affect the category of the school. As this analysis does change the category of the schools, there are some schools which I think will drop through quite a number of categories. Boarding facilities, the cost of boarding and all those things are liabilities to a school and are not included in the level of assets, the recurring resources that would be taken into consideration for the day school aspect, and the Karmel report deals alone with the day school aspect. 
Let me put to the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  that there are one or two other considerations that are never raised in this matter. In the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, like Louis XIV, *I am the State as well as the Commonwealth', and we have been granting a State component grant to non-government schools and a Commonwealth grant. For instance, a school in the ACT that is classified A received $104 a year from the Commonwealth as our State grant and another $104 a year as our Commonwealth grant, making $208 altogether. If such a school is classified A, under the new proposals the Commonwealth grant will phase out but the State grant will continue. The Karmel report asks the States to continue grants. The real problem is in New South Wales where, with great respect, I draw the attention of honourable members opposite to the fact that the Liberal-Country Party Government gives nothing at the secondary level. It is the only government in Australia which gives nothing. The honourable gentleman has referred to the isolated children's scheme. When I brought in the isolated children's scheme the Western Australian Government went out of the isolated children's scheme and used the $810,000 it saved to make grants to nongovernment schools and to raise them to the $104 level. The New South Wales Government makes a grant to families of $88 per child if the child is going to a private secondary school if the parental income is below $7,000 a year - this is the grant that will commence under the new New South Wales Budgetbut it is of no advantage to the school. If the child getting the $88 goes to a Catholic school whose fees are $150, that child pays $62 plus the $88. The school gets nothing but its $150 fees. 
The parents get the assistance. But the Opposition's criticism is on grants to A class schools. The Opposition is not asking us - 
But the honourable gentleman will be aware that his own Government, in making the grant of $104 per secondary pupil and $62 per primary pupil, made those grants to the schools and it is the withdrawal of grants to the schools that we are discussing. If the honourable member wants to talk about assistance to parents, the isolated children's grant is the phasing in form of assistance to parents. Our hardship grant to be introduced next year will be the phasing in of a form of assistance to parents. We hope to extend that right through the secondary level as time goes on. 
There is no means test applied to the private schools. It is useless to talk about a means test applied to a school. A means test can be applied only to a parent. The Karmel exercise presupposed that the States make a basic grant to non-government schools, and on top of this the Commonwealth Government comes in. There are State schools created by the State governments, and there are private schools registered by the State governments. That is entirely an action of the State. The Commonwealth looked at the situation on both the State school side and the nongovernment school side and made an analysis of their resources. An average was taken - 
'Please stop interrupting me if you want the matter explained. Thu is a difficult thing to explain. Just give me a chance if this is a serious debate. The Karmel analysis was that the resources deployed behind the education of an average child in State secondary schools was $511 per student. The Committee analysed the resources of the nongovernment schools on the information provided by the non-government schools themselves. The Committee found that the resources of those schools ranged from $204 a student to $1,380 a student - from 40 per cent of the State school average to 270 per cent of the State school average. The Karmel exercise, which no political party had ever anticipated, stated that a dignified standard of education for every child is 40 per cent above the existing State school level, which would be $715 per pupil at 1973 values of the dollar. It stated that all schools below that level should be raised to that level. To do that will cost $2,000m at the 1973 value of the dollar over 6 years. The school at the $1,380 level does not need to be raised to the $715 level. 
The grants are weighted for State schools in precisely the same way. The States were asked to nominate disadvantaged schools. That is why there is a special grant for disadvantaged schools. There are special grants for the education of handicapped children, where there are very big gaps. The weighting is on both sides. This is why New South Wales and Victoria will be granted the greatest amount of money for disadvantaged schools. I am not in a position to answer the honourable member's questions on A class schools. Some 180 schools- 
 The grounds on which this amendment is unacceptable to the Government are quite simple. The function of the Commission is to make recommendations to the Commonwealth under section 96 of the Constitution, which provides in effect that the Commonwealth Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on the terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. No government before us, and certainly not our immediate predecessor, suggested a control on or recommended the way in which the Commonwealth Parliament should exercise its power in making these grants or required that it should be subject to a mandatory provision that the Commonwealth Minister must accept the nominees of the State Ministers who will be the beneficiaries of these grants. The State Ministers have put evidence to the Schools Commission. We have a director of education from one of the States on the body that we propose for the Schools Commission. But, beyond that, the making of a mandatory provision that State Ministers will give me a panel of names from whom I must choose people to exercise the prerogative of this Parliament under section 96 of the Constitution is not anything that has been required of any previous government in Australia and certainly is not a provision that our prececessors would have accepted from us. Therefore, the amendment is not acceptable. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Mr Malcolm Fraser's amendment)  be added. 
 I wish to move the amendment circulated in my name. 
We know that, but I will continue with the amendment. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3) omit 'Australian schools', substitute 'government and non-government schools In Australia'. 
The first meeting of the new Interim Schools Committee, which we hope will become the Schools Commission, will be tomorrow and the appeals will be heard then. I am not sure whether it will take a day or two days for the appeals to be heard. An extensive analysis of the grounds of appeal has been made by the officers whose duty it is to do such work and by certain members of the Committee. One of the grounds of appeal that was stated by the Interim Committee was a change of circumstances. Honourable gentlemen will recall that early this year, because of the circumstances of the rural economy, I brought in a Bill to provide $3m for hardship cases involving students at the tertiary level. This was provoked by the situation at the University of New England. There was a droughtaffected economy. The rural industry was depressed in 1972. Of course, there has been an unbelievable transformation with the change in the prices obtained for wool, wheat and so on since then. 
Next year many people in the country will probably be sending their children to boarding schools who withdrew them in 1972. That would be a very clear change of circumstances. The staffing ratio of schools from which a lot of children had been withdrawn in 1972 could rise. That is a very clear ground of appeal. I understand the major ground of appeal lies where it has been pointed out by many of the officers concerned that the school has not stated its own case at the correct level. Many headmasters are very good teachers and have been promoted through their private school organisations to be headmasters but are not necessarily good clerks or good accountants. Many (have not stated their case as it should be stated. This sort of thing has meant that when the headmasters have been invited to put in another assessment with very clear and accurate figures the whole status of the school can be greatly transformed. I believe this is likely to happen in a great many cases. 
I think other principles ought to be noted. Very few schools - and I refer to those which can be classed as schools of normally very high academic standards - have made a special effort to locate within the school centres for handicapped children. If honourable gentlemen have ever seen the Commonwealth Government schools for the handicapped in the Australian Capital Territory they will know that under certain circumstances, where a child has multiple handicaps, there is a ratio of one teacher for one child. If handicapped centres in schools are treated as normal staffing, a school will be disadvantaged when it ought to be advantaged for its public service. So, a factor like that needs to be taken into consideration. I believe that the appeals will be finalised in the near future and that the situation of schools will be much clearer. 
However, I remain concerned about the problems of one State. I think this is an important consideration. New South Wales grants $75 a head to schools at the primary level and at the post primary level it grants $88 for families towards paying their children's fees. That does not give anything additional to the schools. At the secondary level in New South Wales the State contribution is therefore nil whereas States such as Western Australia, Queensland and Victoria are granting $104 a head to schools which might be categorised as A schools. Therefore the situation in New South Wales seems to me to be somewhat different. I am not sure whether that matter is being taken into consideration. It is certainly a matter that needs to be considered. Even if it is not a job for the appellate committee I would certainly like to take another look at it. 
The Australian Government is involved through the Department of Immigration in the adult education program at the Brunswick North Primary School. It has the administrative control of the Government's education projects in relation to adult migrants. The Department of Education is involved though in a capacity of giving advice to the Department of Immigration in preparing learning and teaching materials, and it assists with teacher training. It negotiates with particular institutions involved in such a program. Both State and Commonwealth teachers are involved on an hourly employment basis. The projects are in line with the Government's policy as far as adults are concerned to encourage community involvement in education, in this case the adult migrants themselves. 
On the question of the latch key children, I am not certain of any Commonwealth involvement in the Brunswick North Primary School question. The pre-schools commission will be advising the Australian Government on grants that will be applying next year Child care centres are being constructed under arrangements between the Australian Government and various authorities at the present time but I know of none either one way oi the other at North Brunswick. I will have that matter investigated. I might say that this is a project which I wish to visit myself in the near future if I can. The honourable member will be aware that as far as child migrants are concerned we are worried about the fact that the States have no classrooms for the children to be taken to and given special lessons in English, retiring from the normal classrooms. Two million dollars is appropriated towards that end in the current Budget and all-over there is the estimate that $5,250,000 will need to be spent in the next couple of years. However, that is rather a separate question. The question of migrant education is one of my major interests at the moment insofar as each is within my jurisdiction. I want to have a look at the project to which the honourable member refers and see whether there are any additional things that ought to be done by the Commonwealth. 
I would like to express my appreciation of the courtesy of disagreement of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I must therefore pay him the equal courtesy of explaining why the amendment he has moved is unacceptable. 
No, I have not. This is a point that I have not made. To begin with the honourable member said that there shall be only one full time member of the Schools Commission whereas we suggest that there should be four. When the honourable member suggested that originally he said: 'Why do you not follow the analogy of the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education which have only one full time member?' May I therefore turn on him his erstwhile argument. There are 10,000 schools and only 22 universities in Australia. If the process of consultation with State governments is to take place there must be a number of members who are giving their full time to the work of the Commission and who can travel around the country consulting people. 
I am tired of the accusation about consultation because this accusation was also thrown at Karmel. I invite the honourable member for Wannon to turn to appendix C of the Karmel Committee report and to have a look at the consultation that was carried out by the Interim Schools Committee. He will see that every State government through its director of education was consulted. There were 6 or 7 figures from the Federal Catholic Schools Committee; 5 representatives from the National Council of Independent Schools; 5 from the Council for the Defence of Government Schools; 3 from the Commonwealth Secondary Schools Libraries Committee and 2 from the Commonwealth Committee on Facilities for Non-Government Schools. The Committee also held discussions with the teacher organisations from Papua New Guinea, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory as well as from Tasmania, Western Australia, South Australia and Queensland. Discussions were held with the Technical Teachers Association, the Victorian Teachers Union and the New South Wales Teachers Federation. Many of the people consulted had multiple representation. The Committee held discussions with 4 representatives of the Australian Parents 
Council. It also consulted with 4 representatives from the Australian Council of State School Organisations. The Committee met with 5 members of the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of the Disabled - the National Committee on Education. This group included some of the most distinguished experts in the world on the education of handicapped such as Professor Marie Neale. There were 2 representatives of the Australian College of Education. 
There was massive consultation. It is an untrue charge to say that the Interim Committee did not consult people and just made ad hoc decisions. The witnesses who came and sometimes gave entire days of their time, included some of the most distinguished figures in education in this country. One has only to look at the list of witnesses to know that this would be so and that every element of education was represented - .the Catholic schools, the non-government schools and the independent schools. They represented any field of education that the honourable member for Wannon would like to name. There is not the slightest doubt that consultation continuously will take place. But if it is to take place I think that we must have more than one full time member of the Commission. To restrict the Commission to one full time member seems to me to be a grave mistake. 
This proposed amendment would require the Government to appoint the  Chairman  for a term of not more than 5 years. The gentleman who has been appointed as  Chairman  of the Interim Committee is  Dr Kenneth  McKinnon. He is a very distinguished former Director of Education in Papua New Guinea. He is a young man of 42. I have the greatest confidence in his ability. I think it would be extremely unfair to say that he is simply to have a 5-year term at this stage of his career. The amendment would ask a man to move from a secure position into another position with a limitation of 5 years on his term of office. 
The amendment also requires that the part time members of the Commission shall be appointed for a period not exceeding 5 years. These members will be drawn from many areas and the bodies with which they are associated may not want them to have longer than a 3-year term on the Commission. They may not want them to have a mandatory 5-year term. I think it is fair enough to give people who are asked to commit their whole lives to the Commission for a period of time a reasonably lengthy term in office. Those who are part time members pursuing other vocations should have a shorter period of office  subject to renewal. For this reason I cannot accept the proposed amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 12 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
The functions of the Commission are to inquire into, and to furnish information and advice to the Minister with respect to, the following matters: - 
Matters in connexion with the grant by Australia of financial assistance to the States for and in respect of schools and school systems and to schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, including matters relevant to the necessity for financial assistance to be so granted by Australia, the conditions upon which financial assistance should be so granted and the amount and allocation of any financial assistance so granted; and 
Any other matter relating to primary or secondary education in Australia, or to Australian schools, that may be referred to the Commission by the Minister or which the Commission considers to be a matter that should be inquired into by the Commission.. 
In addition to the functions of the Commission under sub-section (1), the Commission shall have such other functions as are conferred on it, either expressly or by implication, by or under any other Act. 
In the exercise of its functions, the Commission shall have regard to such matters as are relevant, including the need for improving primary and secondary educational facilities in Australia and of providing increased and equal opportunities for education in Australian schools, and, in particular, shall have regard to- 
the primary obligation, in relation to education, for governments to provide and maintain government school systems that are of the highest standard and are open, without fees or religious tests, to all children; 
the educational needs of handicapped children and handicapped young persons; 
the needs of disadvantaged schools and of students at disadvantaged schools, and of other students suffering disadvantages in relation to education for social, economic, ethnic, geographic, cultural, lingual or similar reasons; 
the need to encourage diversity and innovation in education in schools and in the curricula and teaching methods of schools; 
the need to stimulate and encourage public and private interest in, and support for, improvements in primary and secondary education and in schools and school systems; 
the desirability of providing special educational opportunities for students who have demonstrated their ability in a particular field of studies, including scientific, literary, artistic or musical studies; 
the need, in relation to primary and secondary education and in schools and school systems, to promote the economic use of resources. 
The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has suggested that if we do not think that Article 26 of the United Nations Charter on Human Rights should be in the Bill we are against the United Nations Charter and Article 26 of it. If the honourable gentleman had chosen to move that the Schools Commission should be bound by the Golden Rule, the Beatitudes and 
I Corinthians chapter 13 I would have thoroughly agreed with him, but I would still have thought that they were not appropriate to be in the Bill, without being opposed to the Golden Rule, the Beatitudes and I Corinthians chapter 13. It is rather odd to have a grab bag from the United Nations Charter put in. The honourable gentleman should realise that one of his amendments is extremely difficult. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that Professor Karmel's objective to bring all schools up to a standard 140 per cent of the existing State school level was very mild compared with this objective. I invite honourable gentlemen opposite to listen to their words: 
In the exercise of its functions the Commission shall have regard to the provision of education of high and equal quality to all children in government or independent schools. 
The Schools Commission is obliged by that clause to bring all schools up to equality with the highest standards in independent schools. 
Because of the cost, my dear friend. We believe in going to that by stages. In 6 years we say, it will cost us $2,000m to get 140 per cent of the existing state school level. But this requirement is not 140 per cent of the existing state school level. The requirement is 270 per cent of the existing state school level. I think the cost would be far more than $ 12,000m to achieve such a thing. If honourable gentlement opposite are really going to persist with that amendment I hope they will never accuse us again of excessive government expenditure, because there is somewhat of a difficulty in the objective they are asking us to espouse. 
I think that the Commission must have objectives that are not so remote as to be unattainable. I would much rather it had more definite objectives. But there is another thing. The wording is always restrictive. Because of this shibboleth about centralism and persisting in calling a body, which is simply advising the Commonwealth 
Government how it is to grant money, an administrative body although it comprises part time members who are not administering anything - no one could suggest that they were - in its amendments the Opposition gets itself into what it regards as an ti centralist slogans and then it reduces the Commission to powerlessness. Listen to this one: 
The functions of the Commission are to inquire into, in co-operation with the State Departments of Education and the independent school authorities, and furnish information and advice to the Minister and to the State Ministers with respect to, the following matters - 
I am not quite sure whether the State Ministers wish to be furnished with this advice by a Commonwealth body. Leaving that aside, why can it not inquire into something of its own volition? 
It cannot under the Opposition's amendment. It has to inquire in co-operation with the State Departments of Education and the independent schools. There are no volitional actions of its own. It is tied to 2 forms of co-operation. I think that the restrictiveness of that clause is the feature which makes it inadequate. 
in reply - At least the honourable member who just spoke, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  does not come from New South Wales. Such a speech from a New South Wales Liberal would have been the most bare-faced effrontery ever enunciated in this House as it would come from a State government which does not give a farthing to any non-government school at the secondary level. The Australian parents councils, the councils of independent schools and certain ecclesiastical dignitaries from the city of Sydney have nothing to say about the State Government of New South Wales. No doubt they are waiting for Pat Hills to become Premier before saying that the State legislation does not give freedom of choice at the secondary level. However I leave that point aside. 
The day on which all of us were waiting for the results of the last election, 2 December 1972, was almost the finish of the last biennium of the McMahon Government. If any of us had taken the trouble to be involved about that Government's educational expenditure in that biennium we would have known that in the 2 years, in every form of grant - capital grant, library grant and science facilities grant - that Government had given to the State schools of Australia $40.5m. In the same 2 years it gave to the non-government schools $7 1.5m. So all up in that biennium its expenditure on schools was $112m. 
It is not a misrepresentation. Those are the figures prepared by my own Department and I trust them. 
I did not ask for any exclusions at all. The figures were given to me. 
I assure the honourable gentleman that I am not sensitive to his interjections. The only thing that I could suggest which would be adequate for his speeches would be for us on his side of the House to wear boater hats whenever he spoke. We would then be expressing his values. That $112m all up was the previous Government's expenditure on government and non-government schools in the biennium 1971-72. I would not have dared to have stood on the hustings and said that in the biennium 1974-75 I would propose to spend $693m on schools. But that is what the Karmel Committee has recommended to the Government. I invite the attention of honourable gentlemen opposite to the fact that obligingly in September 1972 they provided that beginning 1 July 1973 - not in the period that they could guarantee was their Budget - there should be, over 5 years, a capital expenditure on non-government schools of $48m and a capital expenditure on government schools of $167m. All of that falls within this proposition and within the expenditure for this year and the following year. 
Taking all these things into account - the on-going programs and those in this year, 1973, following your programs - $34m will go to government schools and $57m to non-government schools. Persistently, almost double the expenditure will go to about a third as many children. This is the arrangement that we face. What does the Karmel Committee recommend? Allowing for growth in all the existing expenditure under present programs, there will be $83m for government schools in 1974 and 1975 and $143m for non-government schools. 
This is an action of the Commonwealth to raise the standard of schools identified as defective in both government and non-government areas. The sum of $83m is to be provided for government schools and $1 43 for non-government schools. The Karmel transformation is to add $397m to the expenditure on the government sector, which will make it $480m, and $50m to the non-government sector, which will make it $193m. People have spoken about destroying the non-government schools. We are destroying them apparently by giving them$193m in the biennium 1974-75, and the late Government was sustaining them by giving them a third of that in its last biennium. Could anything be a more gross misrepresentation than that kind of statement? But I leave that aside in this debate on the Schools Commission Bill. 
I merely wish to refute the gross defamation of Karmel, who was and is the appointment of the Party opposite for the Australian Universities Commission but who in this connection has been defamed, and lyingly defamed, from one end of the country to the other. But put that aside. I want to dismiss very quickly the nitpicking approach to this Bill by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  and the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The honourable member for Wannon has a technique of weaving. He gets a statement and he draws all the wicked implications from it, which he imputes to his opponent. He got hold of the fact that this Bill says that the Commission can range from 4 members to 11 members. Of course after he denounced it I wanted to find where this Bill had its origins. I had not remembered the discussions. This provision in the Bill is taken holus-bolus from the former Government's own legislation for the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission of the Colleges of Advanced Education, which states this: 
The Committee shall consist of a Chairman and such other members, not being less than four in number nor more than 9 in number, as are appointed from time to time. 
If we repeat it, it is sinister; if the former 
Government did it, it had no sinister implications at all. But I leave that. It is a minor feature. 
I was reading quite recently a book called The Proud Tower'. It is a study of the world before 1914. In that period British Liberals were trying to get amendments to education legislation in Britain that were invariably thrown out of the House of Lords because of the influence of the Anglican Church at that time. Every one of those proposed changes in education would now be recognised as ordinary common sense, as the changes we propose would be recognised as ordinary common sense. 
I thank the honourable gentlemen opposite for the notification that the Bill will not pass the Senate, because tomorrow I will be speaking to the members of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, which I had hoped would become the Schools Commission. A collection of sinister people has been conjured up by honourable members opposite. I will be able to tell them that probably they will carry on as an interim committee. But if the previous Interim Committee could raise expenditure from $112m to $693m there is not much more that something called a Schools Commission could do. Since there have been all these pretences about sinister people, let us hear who will be on the Commission. The  chairman  will be  Dr Kenneth  McKinnon, who for many years was the Director of Education in Papua New Guinea, who created a very large part of the secondary and teacher education aspects which have been the most marked development of education in Papua New Guinea. Other members will be  Mrs J.  Blackburn, now senior lecturer at the Sturt College of Advanced Education in Adelaide and who for many years was connected with teacher education; the Director-General of Education in South Australia,  Mr A.  W. Jones; Father Martin, director of the Catholic Education Office, Melbourne;  Dr Peter  Tannock, Dean of the Faculty of Education of the University of Western Australia, who also is on the Roman Catholic Archbishop's trustee board or whatever it is called, for education in Western Australia;  Mr Ray  Costello, the  President  of the Australian Teachers Federation;  Mrs J.  Kirner,  President  of the Victorian Federation of State School Mothers Clubs;  Mr A.  McNamara, the  President  of the Sydney Federation of Catholic Parents and Friends Associations;  Mr Peter  Moyes, the Principal of the Christ Church Grammar School in Western Australia; and  Mr A.  D. J. Wood, the Principal of St Michael's School for the Handicapped, which I honestly think is regarded as one of the finest schools for the handicapped in the world.  Mr Wood  comes from near Launceston in Tasmania. There will be 2 other appoint ments - one a very distinguished officer of the New South Wales Department of Education whose name I am not yet free to disclose and another, a man who was until recently  a  principal of one of the leading experimental schools of Australia. 
If the Bill is to be mangled in the way that is proposed by the Opposition and if the Senate's amendments are no more intelligent, then the Opposition will be advising the Government how to exercise its power to make grants under section 96 of the Constitution without having a schools commission. When the honourable member for Wannon was in Government and when we moved any proposals about a schools commission he had a standard argument. He said: 'You can have a universities commission. There are only 22 universities to look at. But you cannot have a schools commission. There are 10,000 schools in Australia; therefore it cannot function'. I think the Interim Committee functioned very well and to the satisfaction of the Australian Education Council which has been cited here this evening by so many people. It consists of the 7 Ministers for Education in this country. The honourable member for Wannon was quite right in saying that there has been some indifferent drafting .because of haste. 1 accept that it was because of haste. I believe the Bill was introduced on 27 September. 
I think the Opposition had as much chance to study the legislation as is normal. We need not argue about that. I do not mind the incorporation of glorious statements such as the one about Article 26 of the United Nations Charter, but what on earth is the use of telling a Commission in Australia that education shall be free. Of course we have that, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. How long has that been true in Australia? The Commission does not need to be told that now. Article 26 says that technical and professional education shall be made generally available. Well, we are making it more available but it has been here for years. The Article says that higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit. We are doing more than that. We are doing it on the basis of matriculation, which may not be the same as merit. At least it is going to be free. The Article goes on to say that it shall promote tolerance and so on. All these things are quite unnecessary. 
But the bite came from the honourable gentleman when he said that parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children. I hope that this will always be taken to mean that Aborigines will have a right to have an education in their own language and culture, which we are attempting to give them for the first time. But the exact point about the propaganda of the Australian Parents Council is interesting. There is another section of the Charter which speaks of the rights of the unborn, and that is an extremely mandatory section of the Charter. This section of the Charter that speaks about the right of parents to choose does not enjoin governments to finance non-government schools, which is the implication being given. This Government does finance non-government schools. 
There have been 2 campaigns, one an overcover respectable one and the other an undercover sectarian one which I have encountered in recent weeks. It is a fact that there are 1,768 Roman Catholic schools in Australia compared with 108 Anglican schools. So, necessarily, if the Government starts a policy to assist non-government schools, overwhelmingly the bulk of finance will go to Catholic schools as compared with Anglican schools. What on earth would honourable members expect if one outnumbers the other by 16 to 1? In Australia there are 3 Presbyterian schools, 19 Methodist schools, various Lutheran and Seventh Day Adventists schools; I forget the statistics. But overwhelmingly, 1,768 non-government schools out of 2,190 non-government schools are Roman Catholic. It is probable that the number of schools classified A out of that 2,190 will end up as about 70 schools, and the entire interest of the Opposition is concentrated on those. The final decisions about those schools have yet to be made. Many of them have appeals before the Committee. Some of the honourable gentlemen opposite have used the criteria of the Karmel Committee - which are not binding as criteria on this new Schools Commission at all - to say that one school which is rich is classified D and another one which is poor is classified A. How do honourable members opposite know that the principal of the school did not make a complete mess of his return? They do not know that- 
Secret my foot! The formula has been published. The schools concerned have been encouraged, where they have made mistakes that have been palpably obvious to the responsible officers, to resubmit their returns. 
I do not blame anyone. I merely say that the comparison between 2 schools is not necessarily the validation of the Karmel criteria. It could be a mistaken return. I refer not to the amendments which honourable members opposite prefer. One matter on which I agree with the honourable member for Wannon is that the drafting of this legislation is bad and it may need polishing up in the Senate because it has in it statements like the one that the Schools Commission is to note the obligation for governments to provide and maintain school systems of the highest standard that are open to all children without fees'. I presume that means Government school systems. Is it saying that it is an obligation of the Schools Commission to maintain Geelong Grammar School open to all children, without fees? That is what the drafting means. If that is what it means then right throughout Australia in making every independent school totally free and paying the lot, we are up for more than $693m. I do not know that I can enjoin that on the Schools Commission. I hope that the Opposition's Senate colleagues, when they are redrafting the Opposition's amendments, will draft that amendment with a little more polish. 
The basic point is that this will destroy the needs concept. Its whole intention is to destroy the needs concept. And should it not, from the point of view and the logic of the Opposition? The Opposition when in government faced the situation. The Karmel Committee report refers to non-government schools that range from having resources only 40 per cent of that of the average state school to 270 per cent of that of the average state school. If we take the average state school as S511 per pupil, that means the range in the non-government schools is from a resource level of $204 per pupil to $1,380 per pupil. The late Government's' policy was to give all non-government schools $104 per pupil. The school at the $204 level would still be in the process of buying chalk and pads with the additional $104. The school at the $1,380 level could be buying the most sophisticated equipment, so quite clearly whatever that principle was it was not a needs principle. We have argued for a needs principle and because the amendments overthrow the needs principle - where they do not their meaning is vague - it is not possible for the Government to accept them. In the course of this debate some statements were made upon which I should like to comment. Whatever legislation we bring down or whatever legislation is proposed by the Schools Commission, it will be introduced in the form of States Grants (Schools) Bills. The simple function of the Schools Commission is to advise the Commonwealth Government- 
That the Minister be granted an extension of time. 
I am not giving guarantees about anything. I want the legislation to be passed tonight. 
The legislation that we will bring in is exactly the same in its titles as was the late Government's legislation. They will be States Grants (Schools) Bills. That is what the Schools Commission will be recommending. Honourable members opposite decided as a government that over 5 years they would give $4 8m to non-government schools and $167m to government schools and leave whoever was in office on 1 July 1973 to pay for it. When these arrangements were made the Australian Education Council was not appointing nominees to some advisory body to tell the Minister what to do. The Opposition, when in Government, was totally opposed to such an advisory body as the Schools Commission. I am grateful to those members who, like the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  said they were still opposed to it. 
The real purpose of these amendments is to carry through a successful opposition to the Schools Commission without the Opposition showing that it intends to do so. Opposition members have spoken about spiritual aspects of education. I presume therefore that they understand the scriptures. The problem with the Opposition's education policy is that it has been always governed by Mark chapter 4 verse 25 and not by Matthew chapter 11 verse 5. I hope honourable members opposite understand that. If they do not they should have a look at them. Mark chapter 4 verse 5 states: 'To him that hath more shall be given'. Matthew chapter 11 verse 5 speaks about the gospel being preached to the poor, the halt, the maimed and so on - a different basis. When honourable gentlement opposite speak about non-government schools I think they need to face a few simple facts. The distinctive feature about the Catholic sector of education is not that it is Catholic so much from the point of view of a secular government as that it reaches wage earning groups in the community. It can be argued strenuously that Anglican education might do that in certain circumstances but undoubtedly there are orders in Queensland which argue that way which is why I think there are very few category 'A' schools in Queensland. 
By and large if one covered the names of the schools and the fees charged by these schools on my Department's schedule and said, 'Fees $1,117 - guess who?', anyone who was in any way intelligent would know it would not be a Roman Catholic school. If the amount was $150 a year and a person was in any way intelligent he might have the problem of deciding whether it was Lutheran, Seventh Day Adventist or Roman Catholic school. As the overwhelming majority are Catholic one could safely guess. I refer now to our action for non-government schools in this biennium 1974-75. If the present level of recurring grants to Catholic schools continued the schools would receive $7 1.66m in 2 years. Under the Karmel Committee proposals they will receive $122m. Three-quarters of the schools, 1,768 out of 2,190, are involved. Honourable members opposite should have the integrity to recognise that all of those conditions are being improved and a considerable number of others are also being improved. More than most people have guessed we were told originally that there would be 140 category 'A' schools. I doubt whether there will be many more than 70 of them. 
The honourable member for Wannon in seeking to belittle the changes made by the Government said that in teacher education I was merely carrying on his policy from the Cohen report. The Cohen report recommended in the terms of the policies of the late Government. It recommended that if the Government came into teacher education it should do so on the basis of granting $1 whereas the States would grant $1.85. Under those recommendations the Commonwealth would be up for $83m and the States would be up for $124m in round figures. We have changed the $83m to $188m. That is not sleight of hand as has been suggested. We have asked that the schools be autonomous. I believe that the intention of these amendments is to destroy the intention of the Bill. If the amendments are agreed to in the Senate and returned to this House for agreement my recommendation to the Party will be that they are totally unacceptable. If it means that no Schools Commission comes into being and the body has to carry on as an Interim Schools Committee I will certainly stump the country. 
No member opposite has dared to deny that we have a mandate to set up this Commission. They have made many innuendos about the sort of people we would appoint to the Commission, but no one has dared to name a soul whom we have already nominated. The people we have nominated are of the highest integrity and of the highest ability in this country. I have been scrupulous in the representation of Catholic and independent schools. I could not imagine a more distinguished man than  Mr Peter  Moyes, the headmaster of Christ Church Grammar, who has been chosen by all the headmasters of the independent schools as their  president.  That choice of presidency came after I looked at a panel of names from that quarter and selected him as a man I thought to be outstanding. He is a man of great integrity and of great intellectual insight who, in Christ Church Grammar School, has developed a magnificent section for brain damaged handicapped children as well as having a school with children of the highest academic ability. We have been quite scrupulous in wanting those viewpoints reflected. 
The Schools Commission, if it comes into being will not be bound by any of the criteria of the Karmel Committee but I hope it will be bound by a challenge of that Committee. The challenge was to raise all schools in Australia over the next 6 years to a level at least 140 per cent of the existing State school level. That effort over 6 years will involve $2,000m of Commonwealth money at the 1973 value of the dollar. I hope that that kind of challenge will continue. The Karmel Committee operation was not a snide depriving of any schools. The Committee had a conception that there was an aim of minimum dignified standards. It was 140 per cent above the existing State school average level. All schools below that level - and some of the non-government schools were abysmally below that level - were to be brought up to that level and the $693m to which we refer is the first 2 years expenditure of that 6-year program. The Schools Commission, if it comes into being, has the right to vary that program. If the Senate insists on these ill drafted amendments that have been put up by the Opposition this evening and returns them to the House of Representatives no doubt the Schools Commission will not come into being. I will ask the Interim Schools Committee to continue to advise the Commonwealth Government on how to exercise its grants under section 96. I remind the members of the late Government that they exercised grants under section 96 apparently on their own decision and certainly not on decisions of panels of independent, schools and the Australian Education Commission, or even on decisions of a representative committee such as the Interim Schools Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears - " Australian Capital Territory " includes the Jervis Bay Territory; 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide a legislative basis for the senior secondary scholarships scheme, post-graduate awards scheme and the tertiary education assistance scheme. The tertiary education assistance scheme, to be introduced for the first time at the beginning of 1974, is a major step taken by the Government in its program to produce a revolution of access to education. It complements this Government's decision to abolish fees in tertiary and post-secondary technical institutions and the effect of both these actions will be to ensure that hardship or poverty do not prevent a student from taking advantage of the opportunity for further study. Full-time students at postsecondary technical colleges, colleges of advanced education, and universities will be eligible for means tested living allowances. The Bill also provides for the payment of fees for students whose fees are not provided for in the general arrangements, such as those studying certain special courses for which fees are charged, for example, the medical records librarianship course and courses conducted by such authorities as barristers' and solicitors' admission boards. The medical records librarianship course is a full time course and students could qualify for a living allowance subject to means test. The same applies to the Australian Ballet School and other tertiary courses which may be approved. 
The tertiary education assistance scheme replaces the Commonwealth university scholarships scheme, the Commonwealth advanced education scholarships scheme and the Commonwealth technical scholarships scheme. Arrangements have been made to ensure that those who now hold the scholarships will not lose financially. The legislation provides for the first time a legal basis for the senior secondary scholarships scheme. Regulations are being drafted and are expected to be ready in time for the new year. About 48,000 senior secondary scholarship holders will be involved. 
The Bill repeals the Education Act 1945-66, thereby abolishing the Commonwealth Office of Education and the Commonwealth Scholarships Board. Similar provisions were made under the Scholarships Act 1969, but this Act has never been proclaimed and changes and innovations introduced in the field of student assistance by the Government require new legislation. The Commonwealth Scholarships Board has continued to function since it was originally established under the Education Act 1945-1966. The community and the Government are indebted to it for the valuable contribution that the Board has made over the years to the student assistance program. 
Parts II, III, and IV of the Bill refer to the schemes of assistance at 3 levels of education - secondary, tertiary and post-graduate. They allow for the drafting of regulations for the granting of assistance, for the determination of benefits, and they provide for transitional arrangements in favour of students already holding awards. It will still be necessary to assess the eligibility of students applying for assistance under each of the 3 schemes. This will involve consideration of such matters as the student's academic progress and his previous studies, as well as the assessment of the level of assistance for living and other allowances. Provision is made for the Minister to appoint authorised officers to consider this eligibility subject to review. Part V of the Bill covers the establishment and operation of student assistance review tribunals.' There is a clear need for flexibility in administration of student assistance schemes and I know that honourable members will be aware of the many and varied problems which students 'must face, and the difficulties and indeed injustices which may occur because of too rigid an application of rules and conditions. We have therefore included in this Bill provisions for machinery whereby administrative decisions may be reviewed and reconsidered by a tribunal, so that an appropriate balance is struck between the requirements of formal legislation and the need for flexibility within the framework of that legislation. 
 The schemes covered by this legislation will provide assistance for probably more than 125,000 students in 1974. The Bill does not cover all the Government's schemes of student assistance. We intendto introduce further legislation for isolated children, Aboriginal students and students receiving benefits under the Government's new secondary allowances scheme. Students should be going through a period of life when they have the leisure to think as well as the need to study. An age of speed does not easily tend itself to the creation of great new productive ideas. The function of education in a world in crisis is to develop people who can fashion a new and inspiring civilisation - people who have the moral and intellectual qualities, and the sensitivity to produce a renaissance. It is hoped that this Bill is a step towards these goals. I believe that the House should support this legislation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 
 Mr Chairman,  the Committee will recollect that there was some confusion at the time I moved an amendment to clause 13 because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  had come into the chamber just prior to that and raised a question of privilege. I understand that the Opposition wants certain amendments it has moved to clause 13 recommitted to enable a vote to be taken on them. I also understand that the amendment I have moved has to be disposed of first before any recommittal action can take place. I presume that this will not mean that we will be going through the whole debate again. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated that the Opposition supports the amendment 1 have moved to clause 13. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The amendment is an extraordinarily limited one because if these were all the organisations with which the Commission were to consult there wouldbe a pathetically inadequate amount of consultation taking place. I do not know whether the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  happens to have seen the list of people who will be either on the Schools Commission or the continuing committee, according to the fate of our Bill in the Senate, but will be aware that the list includes persons associated with the Australian Council of State School Organisations, the Catholic Parents and Friends Association -  Mr McNamara  in the latter case and  Mrs Kirner  in the former - and also the headmaster of one of the Greater Public Schools,  Mr Peter  Moyes of Christ Church Grammar in Western Australia, and so on. I am sorry that the honourable gentleman regards me as such an object of suspicion that he wishes to have spelt out everybody with whom the Commission will consult. If he looks at the list of people who had access to the Interim Committee he will find that it includes people from all these organisations and many more. 
The function of the Schools Commission is to be the recipient of representations from all sorts of organisations. The function of the Advisory Boards in their localities is to be a local organ of intelligence and to transmit information to the Schools Commission to make sure that it knows what is being demanded by all sorts of people who are giving thought to education in the States and in areas geographically remote from Canberra. 
No, but it may be easier for some people to have a full discussion with the local boards and for them to transmit the information to the Schools Commission. Some people may wish to write directly to the Schools Commission. Some people may be coming to Canberra on deputations and may go straight to the Schools Commission. I hope that some of the representations from the Council for the Defence of Government Schools will be absorbed by the buffer - the boards in the States - in addition to the Schools Commission being deluged with representations. 
We do envisage a flexible organisation, which is what the Karmel Committee recommended. But in no legislation is every possible element that will make representations spelt out. It was not done in the Universities Commission legislation. It was not done in the legislation which established the Commission on Advanced Education. It is not done anywhere. I feel that it is unnecessary. I do not object to all these elements making their representations. If the Bill specified only the elements named in the amendment, it would be very limited. I agree with the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who said that the amendments being moved in this chamber would require a lot of polishing before they could really become a part of an Act. I hope that the polishing which honourable gentlemen opposite have threatened will eventuate in the Senate will be a very adequate polishing and that we will not have the sorts of amendments that have been moved in this place. I do not think this amendment has been fully thought out and I would prefer to leave the clause as it is. 
I think it is very probable that the sizes of the Boards or the numbers of people on them will differ from State to State. I think it is obvious that there Would need to be a larger Board in a State such as New South Wales than in a State such as Tasmania. 
If there is a part that is not adequate, I will treat this as a dialogue. We envisage a Commission consisting of 3 or 4 full-time members - a  chairman  and 2 or 3 others. It ought to be the function of these full-time members to go and sit with these Boards at crucial times when they are meeting. The Committee suggested that the regional boards might comprise the following: A full time commissioner as  Chairman  - that would be one of the 3 or 4; a State Director-General of Education or his nominee; the Director of the State Catholic Education Office or his nominee; a nominee of the Association of Independent Schools; a nominee of the government school teachers' organisation; a nominee of the government schools parents organisations; 4 members appointed by the Commonwealth Minister for Education after consultation with the State Minister for Education. That is the suggestion of Karmel, and it would be my general thinking, since the honourable member has asked for it. 
Yes, I would accept it. I do not think you could apply it rigidly everywhere. I do not think you want to specify rigidly what the Karmel Committee has recommended, but I accept this as my genera] thinking on the matter. I would think that some of these elements were quite essential. 1 think it would be quite essential to have representation of the 2 large sections of education; to have on the boards a nominee of the State Director-General of Education so as to be able to consult him about someone; to have a director of the Catholic Education Office and a nominee of the Association of Independent Schools. Without this I do not think the Schools Commission would function effectively and 1 do not think the boards would be a proper intelligence organisation for the Schools Commission. I generally subscribe to those points. I do not know that everywhere you need to have 4 other members apart from those people, nor do I regard the Karmel Committee as having thought out all the elements that might necessarily be recommended, but I accept the recommendations of paragraph 13.9 of the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. The whole of that paragraph indicates the general nature of the boards. But we are also feeling for local initiatives. In my own heart I feel that there is another category of schools to which no reference has been made. In the Australian Capital Territory I approved a guaranteed loan for the Association of Modern Education. In respecting the consciences of parents I respect the consciences of those parents who say: 'A plague on both your houses of State schools and religious schools. We do not think they really get into the field of education in the way we want and we have newer and more innovative ideas.' Some of the schools they have in mind are very good ones. They do not exist in every State, but if they did I would want representation from those. Then there are some States where outstanding work is being done in some schools in connection with handicapped education. In that State where you have a first class mind dealing with handicapped education, whether in government or nongovernment schools - I am thinking now of a non-government school in Western Australia, Christ Church Grammar, which has an extremely good centre for brain damaged children - you may want such a teacher as a board member. This is why I want flexibility and not specifics. I assure the honourable gentleman that we are making this Bill a Bill for government and non-government schools and we want the representation of both. I want non-government schools to include the experimental schools and I want schools for handicapped on government, non-government or experimental sides represented. We want flexibility. 
Question put. 
That the clause proposed to be omitted  (Mr  MacKellar's  amendment) stand part of the Bill. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Degree Courses in Colleges of Advanced Education 
<para pgwide="yes">The information which follows is based on material supplied to me by the Australian Council on Awards in Advanced Education. The Council, which is a national body, maintains a register in which are entered those awards offered in colleges of advanced education throughout Australia which have met the Council's requirements for national registration. 
<para pgwide="yes">There may be other degree courses at present being offered in the colleges which are not included in the following list because the associated awards have not yet been registered by the Council. 
Honourable gentlemen will recall that when the late Government's last education legislation was introduced in the House in September 1972 the then Opposition undertook to continue it in all its forms for 12 months and then to have it restructured after an investigation by a schools commission. Following the legislation of the late Government, this year the Australian Government spends on state schools $28. 4m and on non-government schools $60.2m. This includes everything - science laboratories, grants, library grants, recurring grants, capital - for the academic or calendar year 1973. I am not able to add, however, to the fact that the late Government's policy was to make, through the Department of Social Security, grants on a $2 for $1 basis for nongovernment efforts for the education of the handicapped while no grants were made to State government efforts for the education of handicapped children. The first complaints I received as Minister were from Liberal Ministers in State governments about the fact that they could set up schools attached to hospitals, and that they had about 85 per cent of handicapped children in state schools but got no grants. The position next year will be that Commonwealth grants to government schools will rise from $28.4m this year to $19 1.8m, and that Commonwealth grants to nongovernment schools will rise from $60.2m this year to $84.7m. In 1975 Commonwealth grants to government schools will rise to $303.7m and to non-government schools will rise to $107 .9m. 
I should like to comment on the speech of the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  who spoke a little while ago about Commonwealth expenditure on schools as distinct from Commonwealth expenditure on tertiary education. I should like to draw the attention of the honourable member for Forrest to the fact that so far no Labor Budget has been put through this Parliament. Therefore, the educational expenditures upon which he commented were a result of the Budget passed last year. I know that the honourable member was not making party political points. Of course the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  who has just spoken, made nothing else. But the point that I want to make is in relation to the actual expenditure of the Commonwealth Government on schools. The honourable member for Forrest will recall that in September last year we gave an undertaking that for the academic year 1973 we would continue the policies of the late Government. As a result $88.6m has been spent on schools. The expenditure on tertiary education is, of course, overwhelmingly larger than that amount - and that was the policy of the late Government. 
Under the recommendations of the Interim Schools Committee, which recommends the grants to the States, in the academic year 1974 the expenditure of $88. 6m on schools for this year will become $276.5m, and for the academic year 1975 it will become $41 1.6m on schools. So the growth will be about fivefold. Even allowing for the strictures on inflation of the honourable member for Deakin these will be considerable increases. The honourable member for Deakin spoke about the destruction of the independent schools. In his speech - and I notice he does not wait to listen to the reply - he said that we were destroying the independent schools. I invite the attention of the House to the means of destroying the independent schools. In the last biennium of the late Government, 1971-72, the all-up expenditure, every form of expenditure, on state schools by the late Government was $40.5m, and on independent schools was $7 1.5m. Under the Karmel plan, which has come in for its share of criticism, the all-up expenditure in the next biennium on government schools will be $495m, a twelvefold increase; and on independent schools it will be $195m, about a threefold increase. 
The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  of course is quite right in saying that money is not the only factor. But I suggest to the honourable gentleman that we should not fall into the opposite error of making religion a hurrah word. There is one Englishspeaking community which has only religious schools, and that community is Ulster. I think the honourable gentleman might recognise that religion as a form of indoctrination, rather than what it ought to be, can be a form of paganism which is thoroughly mischievous. Anyway, I am not satisfied with the results in Ulster. I hope that what really communicates itself to a child is the real qualities of the child's teachers, and those may not always relate to the doctrines the teachers profess. After all, the priest and the Levi had all the right doctrines, even from Christ's point of view, and the Samaritans had all the wrong ones. But that is not the point of the story. So we might look for other qualities in education rather than merely the question of religious profession. 
Surely the honourable member regards it as less than satisfactory that, pursuing the policies of his Government and the Budget of his Government, this year $28m is spent on State schools and $60.2m is spent on independent schools. That may be assisting what the honourable gentleman calls quality with a vengeance. But the enrolment in the state schools is more than 3 times as great as in the private schools. The Commonwealth, after all, is not a party principal in education except in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, and it will be in tertiary education. I am surprised that none of the honourable gentlemen opposite has mentioned a word about universities, colleges of advanced education and technical schools becoming free. If one is going to talk about who is getting the benefit in education I draw the attention of the honourable gentlemen opposite to these facts: Twenty-eight per cent of state school children complete a secondary education and can go on to a tertiary education; 35 per cent of children at Catholic schools complete a secondary education and can go on to a tertiary education; 86.5 per cent of children in non-Catholic non-government schools complete a secondary education and can go on to a tertiary education. If a child goes on to a tertiary education he really hits the taxpayers' jackpot. 
The Australian National University may be an extreme case, but it has 5,000 students and costs S43m a year to run - that is in the current Budget. By passing all the way through the education system an arts graduate possibly costs the taxpayer $10,000. According to  Mr Willis  a graduated doctor costs the taxpayer $45,000. If a child attends the non-government non-Catholic sector of education - which normally is the high fee charging sector - and he goes on to tertiary education he will get a subvention from the taxpayer which leaves the ordinary child in the ordinary state school for dead. Three years of high school- 
Bui 75 per cent of state school children do not go on. 
I do not dispute the number. Let us deal with groups of children at the moment. I am not trying to suppress facts, ] am just asking honourable members to consider a few other things in the sociology of who gets what in education. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following is the latest available information on teacher resignations published by the various State Education Departments and authorities. For New 
The following table shows the latest available information on the number of primary and secondary teachers employed in Government schools in Australia. 
As I recollect the figures in the Karmel report, the sum total of what New South Wales will be receiving over the 2 years is $240m. I am quite sure that that is not merely $10m in addition to what would have been received by New South Wales. I can scarcely believe that  Mr Willis  has been correctly reported because, in common with the rest of the members of the Australian Education Council, he joined in warmly commending the Karmel report and the extra sums of money which the State of New South Wales would be receiving. I doubt whether he would have joined in any warm commendation if it involved only10m in 2 years. It is not correct. 
I do not think that could be correct either, but I would need to find out on what basis he was discussing the question. 
 The total allocation to Victoria under the technical education arrangements for the triennium that finishes on 30 June 1974 is about $12,822,000. On present trends - I cannot, of course, indicate that the present trends will continue exactly as they are now - at 30 June 1974 there will be $3,850,000 of this amount still to be spent. 
While I am on my feet, I can answer the point raised by the honourable member for Barton. 
The extra money to go to New South Wales in this financial year, 1973-74, is $52m, which is made up of $4m extra for pre-schools, $8ni extra for technical education and $40m extra for schools. This extra money does not take into account teachers colleges, universities, colleges of advanced education or whatever extra is required for pre-school teachers colleges. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a copy of the report on the conference of the Australian Education Council, held in Melbourne on 14 and 15 June 1973. 
 I wish briefly to answer the questions of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  The honourable gentleman's history of the University of Western Australia is not correct. The University of Western Australia was deliberately made unfree in 1958 or 1959. That was achieved by a system whereby the amount of money that the University raised itself attracted Commonwealth and State grants. In the period when the University of Western Australia was free a good many people were admitted to the university who were not able to gain admittance at universities in the eastern States. That immediately had the effect, for instance, of getting a higher proportion of teacher graduates among them science graduates and so on, in the Western Australian Department of Education. 
I do not have any analysis of the proportion of students from poorer families. I myself would have been an instance of that because my father was part-time unemployed when I was at the University of Western Australia. But the free system undoubtedly allowed many to be admitted to the university who could not gain admittance to universities in the eastern States. There was a different social climate for a large part of that period. The honourable gentleman will recall that before the war only 7 per cent of pupils completed secondary education. As far as I can remember, that was not tremendously affected in Western Australia. The other question that the honourable gentleman asked was about the method of gaining admitance. Universities are autonomous. Some of the faculties have quotas. Before long I hope to produce the Government's reaction to another Karmel report, the Karmel Report on Medical Education. We shall be trying to make more places available for medical education, but that is yet to come. 
The universities themselves will have to react to the situation. I do not know whether the fact that university education will be free will lead to a great wave of additional students being admitted. Many faculties could absorb these. Otherwise, I suppose each university will make its own adjustment. It might raise its standards for all I know. I should think that the tendency will be for a shifting round of students. If a student cannot get into the University of Sydney he may go to Armidale. I believe that this sort of thing will take place. But we will not be making those decisions. Universities, colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges are autonomous institutions. They will be confronted with a situation. I do not imagine that there will be a great additional wave of students immediately. The institutions will be confronted with a situation. We hope to speed the construction of tertiary institutions. 
As the honourable gentleman knows, Griffith and Murdoch Universities are now in the proces of construction. I hope that will be speeded up. Other universities and colleges of advanced education may have to be provided. Those institutions will make the adjustments that are necessary. We will not dictate policy to them. Constitutionally we cannot. I suppose that we could to the Australian National University, but we do not. We constitutionally cannot do it in the States. Again, the money that goes to universities will be States grants earmarked to be passed on to universities. The legislative authority over universities will still be State authority. As far as we are concerned, the universities will be autonomous and will make their own decision. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. Progress reported. 
For the information of honourable members I table a statement prepared by the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission showing results of appeals by non-systemic non-government schools against categorisation for recurrent grants. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The current range of salaries in each State which appear prima facie to be the relevant award rates and which are the latest available to my Department and to the Public Service Board are as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is expected that this kind of information will become available through the development of the Government's new national pre-school policy which is to commence in 1974. In the meantime the information is not available. 
Child Care and Pre-school Centres: Staff Salaries  (Question No. 894) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This information is not available. See answer to question No. 889. However, it is known that the cost of full day care for children under 2 years of age is considerably higher than for children above this age. 
A number of Opposition spokesmen and sometimes State Ministers have discussed the increased Commonwealth expenditure on tertiary education as simply a self-balancing item - a put and take job - whereby the States have lost general grant.; and then received the same amount through the provisions of section 96 of the Constitution. This is quite incorrect. Last financial year Commonwealth expenditure on tertiary education was SI 66m. In this financial year it will be $388m, which is an increase of $222m. State general grants and loan funds have been reduced by $144m. If we leave out the State item, the Commonwealth increase in expenditure is $7 8m over $166m, which is an increase of 47 per cent. They are not simply selfbalancing items. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information is not available at this stage but it is expected that when the Australian Pre-Schools Committee is established as a Commission it will conduct surveys to establish measures of this kind. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The information soughtin respect of States is not presently available. The last survey which provided information of the kind sought by the honourable member was in 1969. Results of this survey are set out in booklet number 7 of the Women in the Workforce' series, prepared by the Women's Bureau of the previous Department of Labour and National Service. 
There are 25Registered child care centres in the Northern Territory and 9 centres in the Australian Capital Territory. 
No centres are subsidised in the Northern Territory. One of the centres in the Australian Capital Territory is subsidised under the provisions of the Child Care Act. 
The only child care centres registered by the Australian Government are those in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. These are registered under Ordinances administered by the Departments of Aboriginal Affairs and the Capital Territory respectively. 
In all, 45 centres are approved for subsidy from the Australian Government under the recurrent grant provisions of the Child Care Act 1972. 
In addition, Commonwealth Hostels 'Ltd operates 11 child minding centres at various hostels for migrants. These centres are subsidised out of the Migrant Hostel subsidy paid to Hostels Ltd by the Department of Immigration. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Costs of centres vary significantly depending on the cost of land and on the age range of children to be catered for. The honourable member may be interested in a recent tender of $139,000 for a new full day care centre in Sydney for 60 children aged 2-5 years and designed to the requirements of the Child Care Standards Committee. This figure does not include the cost of professional fees, land or equipment. 
Pre-school Centres   (Question No. 893) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)and(2) 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. I did not make a statement this morning that the Commonwealth Government's expenditure on education increased by 47 per cent. I said that if one took out the State component what remains of the Commonwealth component of tertiary education, not all education, increased by 47 per cent. I was asked a question about the relationship of the reduction of State grants to increased Commonwealth expenditure, and I repeat the facts: In the last financial year Commonwealth expenditure on tertiary education was$1 66m. In this financial year it will be $388m. That is an increase of $222m. The States general grants have been reduced by over $lllm and their loan funds by over $32m, making $144m in all. The increase in federal expendture is $222m, which is $7 8m more than the reduction of State grants and loans. 
I merely say that you cannot call the increase in Commonwealth expenditure a self-balancing item. 
If the honourable member were correct about its being reduced by inflation the States would also have had to meet the inflationary cost had they stayed in. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Questions Nos 964 and 10S7. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The States Grants (Universities) Act 1973 and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1973, which were recently passed by the Parliament, make provision for the allocation of unmatched Common wealth funds to the States to be used as loans and grants to needy students in universities and colleges of advanced education. The legislation requires that annual reports are to be provided by universities to the Australian Universities Commission, and by the States, on behalf of colleges of advanced education, to the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. These reports will give statistics and information on the distribution and use of the funds provided under the legislation. It is intended that the kind of information sought by the honourable member will be covered by these reports, and he will be provided with the information once the reports are available. (b), (c), (d),(e), (f) and (g) - See my answer to (a) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The States Grants (Universities) Act 1973 and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1973, which were recently passed by the Parliament, make provision for the allocation of unmatched Commonwealth funds to the States to be used as loans and grants to needy students in universities and colleges of advanced education. The legislation requires that annual reports are to be provided by universities to the Australian Universities Commission, and by the States, on behalf of colleges of advanced education, to the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. These reports will give statistics and information on the distribution and use of the funds provided under the legislation. It is intended that the kind of information sought by the honourable member will be covered by these reports, and he will be provided with the information once the reports are available. 
, (3) and(4) See my answer to (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The establishment of a National Book Resources Development Committee is an aim of the Australian Labor Party and is partof its platform. 
The proposed Committee is a matter for further investigation and consideration by the Government 
 I would like to identify myself with the remarks that have been made about an old parliamentary colleague, whose hospitality I enjoyed in Canberra and also in Wellington, New Zealand when he was High Commissioner. As a private member of Parliament Donald Cameron believed that this was a forum for rational discussion. As a Minister he believed that it was a place where he should give all the information that was consistent with his Executive Council oath. He was a distinguished member of the Congregation of St John the Baptist, Canberra and was always, at all times, a courteous colleague. I am sure that all honourable members will pray that his family will be strengthened to bear their grief and that they will be comforted by the many happy memories they may have of him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House reimburses the States for abolishing fees in government technical education. It is the concluding part of a sequence of actions to make tertiary and post secondary education free. Honourable members will recall legislation passed in the Budget session of 1973 which gave effect to the Government's policy of abolishing fees in universities and colleges of advanced education from the beginning of 1974. The Bill now before the House, the States Grants (Technical Training Fees Reimbursement) Bill 1974, rounds off this policy by abolishing fees also in technical education. The Government has a clear commitment to do this, based upon its belief that a student's merit rather than a parent's wealth should decide who should benefit from the community's vast financial commitment to tertiary education. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech before the last general election stated explicitly that fee abolition would also apply to technical colleges. 
The provisions of this Bill relate only to the first 6 months of 1974. The total program of assistance to the States from 1 July 1974 onwards for technical education is to be reviewed following consideration by the Government of the recommendations of the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education. I expect to receive the report of that Committee within the next few months. It may, of course, be assumed that programs from 1 July 1974 will continue to provide for tuition and similar fees not to be charged in approved technical courses. 
For the purposes of this Bill, fee abolition applies to full-time, part-time and correspondence courses conducted in training institutions administered or maintained by government authorities. For the information of honourable members, I have prepared a list of the institutions in which courses have been approved for fee abolition. I seek leave,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to have this list incorporated in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
It is to be noted that the list includes some colleges of advanced education which, in addition to tertiary courses, provide courses at technician level. Consistent with the arrangements adopted at the tertiary level, adult education courses have not been included, as they are mainly of a hobby or general interest nature. Fee abolition applies not only to tuition fees, but also to related charges, such as examination, enrolment and registration fees. Other charges, including the fees of various student organisations, will remain the responsibility of the students. The determination of the courses and types of fees to which fee abolition applies was made in close consultation with the appropriate authorities in the States. 
In arriving at the amounts for reimbursement, account has been taken of expected fee increases in 1974 and of current enrolment estimates. Should actual enrolments exceed the estimates substantially, the State concerned is expected to submit a case for a supplementary amount under clause 3. (1) of the Bill. The amounts shown in the Schedule to the Bill are affected to some extent by the fee collectionpolicy in each State. In New South Wales, a high proportion of the annual fees is collected in the first half of the year. In other States, collection is more evenly spread. Arrangements for assistance beyond June 1974 will be adjusted to take account of payments made in the first half of the year. 
Corresponding provisions have also been made for the abolition of fees in certain institutions in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. These are the Canberra Technical College, the Canberra School of Music and the Darwin Community College. 
This legislation demonstrates once more the determination of the Australian Government to open up opportunities to post-secondary education as a complement to its efforts for primary and secondary education. Technical education is an investment in national efficiency. Not only that, the investment in technical skill is often an investment in an individual's creative satisfaction and happiness. In conjunction with the new means-tested living allowances for students admitted to full-time technical college courses, this legislation will help to remove the financial barriers of the past. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
If the honourable gentleman were to study the Karmel Committee report he would see that the Karmel Committee recommendations were made on the basis of the States continuing to make the kind of grants that they were making at that time. It was not envisaged by Professor Karmel that the funds would remain static forever, that regardless of changes in the value of money they would stay frozen at the level of when he made his investigation. The various States were making certain forms of grants, which Professor Karmel took into consideration when he was making his recommendations concern ing schools. The continuance by the Commonwealth of the making of grants to the nongovernment schools on its territorial grants side as distinct from its national grants side is a continuance of the carrying out of the Karmel Committee report. 
The Karmel committee report gave particular attention to what would popularly be called Catholic parish schools but which in the terms of the report are called systemic schools. The amount of money which they were receiving in 1973 was $18m. It has been increased in 1974 to $26. 5m, which represents an increase of 45 per cent. It will be increased under the Karmel funding in 1975 to $3 8m, which represents a further increase of about 45 per cent over this year but more than 100 per cent over 1973. The grants to systemic schools are made to whatever Catholic authority or board administers the systemic schools as distinct from those Catholic or other non-government schools which stand as independent entities. The authorities administering the grants can make variations in its grants to the schools according to their need. We have no reason at the present time to question that they have been carrying that out in the spirit of the legislation, but if there were violations of the spirit of the legislation we would have to take the question up with the Catholic authorities administering it. 
I would say that this represents schools in which 80 per cent of the children in nongovernment primary schools are enrolled. They are not in categories A to H under the Karmel report but they comprise two-thirds of the non-government schools. The Karmel funding, as I have said, involved an increase in their grants from Si 8m to S26.5m and then to $38m; so that there has been no reduction in their grants. Nobody could contend that the 43 per cent and then the 45 per cent increase in their grants would not keep pace with the rate of inflation of 14 per cent over the year. So if they are increasing their fees there must be other considerations involved than those that are attributable to the action of the Australian Government. 
Cabinet and the Parliamentary Labor Party adopted the Karmel report except for chapter 13 and the recommendations on category A schools. In adopting the Karmel report the Party adopted the recommendations in chapters 1.21 and 1.23, which counsel the States that the grants that were being recommended by Karmel superimposed on top of State grants should con tinue on the same basis as the grants that were being made by the States at that time. In the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the Australian Government gives what I would have once called a State component and a Commonwealth component but which would now be called, I suppose, a territorial component and a national component. We have continued, according to the Karmel recommendations which were adopted by the Parliamentary Labor Party and the Cabinet, the policy of making these grants. This applies for 2 years. 
The Schools Commission would be perfectly competent to recommend - I presume to the States and to the Australian Government itself as the Karmel Committee did not recommend - that that side of the grant should be differentiated. But there was the equality of a considerable sum in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and the equality of nothing for secondary schools in New South Wales. In both cases the Commonwealth grant is superimposed on top of equality. 
On 21 August the Prime Minister wrote to the States informing them of the Budget allocation of $10m so that they could plan their procedures of spending the money. On 26 January he wrote to them again because the plan set out by the Fry Committee was regarded by Cabinet, whilst having many merits, as being in need of acceleration and needing supplementary recommendations to the Government. He wrote to them on 26 January asking for their plans. Some of the States immediately put in their plans and funds have been approved. They may expect the funding to flow in April. Of course, States with plans approved can proceed to spend their own moneys and replace them with these funds. 
New South Wales knows and has known since about 3 March that up to $3. 67m is available for expenditure in New South Wales between now and 30 June to establish and maintain education and care services for preschool children. This is in addition to grants of $3. 25m which have already been approved to New South Wales private organisations under the Child Care Act. Contributions to the cost of advisory services will be approved on a case basis. That Government knows that costs of approved capital projects, land, equipment and furniture will be met on a basis of priorities of need. An ongoing commitment to capital projects and operational costs will be accepted in the 1974-75 Budget for projects started under the 1973-74 Budget. Arrangements could be made for operational support of existing pre-schools designated as contributing particularly to opportunity for children in need. For existing pre-schools, Australian Government assistance would contribute to staff salary costs and would be available to avoid the need for parent contributions in respect of pre-schools catering especially for children in need. 
I might comment that recurrent assistance is subject to the continuation of the existing levels of State recurrent assistance for pre-schools. The State Ministers in New South Wales professed great difficulties about this question which other States have not professed. I might say that, unlike the child care grants which on the capital side are expected to obtain approvals amounting to $ 13.5m by 30 June, the pre-school grants are grants to the States whereas the child care grants result from direct dealings with local government or local charitable organisations. The action of the Australian Government, of course, is contingent upon discussions between officers of the State governments and the Australian Government so that the timing and speed of the expenditure of this money or the ability to notify organisations of what they may expect to get is within the hands on the State governments. 
For the information of honourable members, I table the Australian Universities Commission's report on the proposal of the Government of Victoria for a fourth university in Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report on the conference of the Australian Education Council, 28 February- 1 March 1974. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969- 1972, I present the statement of payments made to independent schools in each State for the year ended 31 December 1972. 
First of all I would like to remind the House that the $10,268,000 for fee abolition is not the only expenditure which is running on technical education at the present time. Between now and 30 June we are finishing a biennium in which the Commonwealth has granted to the States and is spending through the States $46m for capital for technical education. As I explained, I think, in my second reading speech, the reason why this Bill funds the fees for only half a year is that we expect the Australian Commission for Technical and Further Education to be making recommendations both for the capital grants and for the fees for the 18 months that begin on 1 July this year. Added to that, this makes a biennium of expenditure on technical education. 
I want to thank the House for welcoming the legislation. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  asked some questions. I am not sure whether I caught the purport of his questions correctly so I shall give a number of answers covering a number of situations that I might have understood from what he said. Firstly, what he was conveying may have meant that there are technical courses that have not come within the definitions or under the authorities we have specified in this legislation. I think I indicated in the course of my second reading speech that, if the number of persons enrolling in 1974 for the courses concerned greatly exceeded the number expected to enroll, additional money would be payable to the States to reimburse them for the loss of fees. Clause 3 of the Bill will enable additional moneys to be paid to the States if these additional moneys are appropriated for the purpose by a separate Act - for example, by a supplementary Appropriation Act. If we find that, as the honourable member for Wannon suggests, there are some courses that ought to have been covered we could handle that in exactly the same way as we could handle additional enrolments - with a supplementary appropriation. Clause 3 enables us to follow the States into their greater needs if it is shown that either enrolments were underestimated or new courses are accepted. 
The second meaning of what he said may have been this: In Victoria some people are undertaking night matriculation courses at technical schools and their fees are abolished. However, in the country in many areas there are no technical schools so they are undertaking their night courses at ordinary secondary high schools, and these fees are not abolished. In South Australia, of course, all such courses were put under the authority for technical education. 
Yes, if these part-time night courses could all be put under the technical education authority. There they call it - with that sweet disposition of mind that  Mr Hudson  has - the Department of Further Education. It was because of that that we had to call the Kangan Committee the Australian Commission for Technical and Further Education. Actually, that expression gets us out of some difficulties and enables us to bring in more people. All I can say about this is that in Victoria we have tried to deal with the problem of the country student. We tried to deal with him last year by extending to technical education the isolated children's grants. We are now trying to deal with this problem by giving the full student allowances to people for technical education, which means that someone who comes in from the country may receive the living away from home allowance as well, depending on the means of his parents. 
If the Department of Education in Victoria brought all those courses under the Victorian Government Technical Schools Division they would be funded. But we have problems about funding the high schools of a State again when over the next 2 years almost $500m will be granted to the States for their primary and secondary schools. Here we are trying to make a grant for technical schools. If some of these anomalous courses in Victoria can be put under the Technical Schools Division that problem will disappear. 
My third answer to the honourable gentleman is this: We have tried to avoid in some ways the necessities for definition at all by specifying courses conducted by authorities. 
Let me give examples. For instance, in New South Wales under this legislation the Department of Technical Education is receiving $5,775,118. The Department of Agriculture has courses which are receiving $19,746. The New South Wales State Conservatorium of Music is receiving $5,852. But by specifying these authorities, in some ways there has been an avoidance of definition of courses. In Victoria the Department of Education Technical Schools Division is a specified authority. Then there are the Department of Agriculture and the College of Nursing. In Queensland the Department of Education Technical Branch, the Board of Advanced Education and the College of Nursing are specified authorities. In South Australia there are the Department of Further Education, the Institute of Technology and Roseworthy Agricultural College. In Western Australia there are the Department of Education Technical Division, the College of Nursing and the Pre-school Education Board. In Tasmania the Department of Education is the specified authority. 
Under some circumstances one has to try to signify what one is doing more by a definition approach. The types of fees included in the abolition, for instance, are: Course examination, qualifying or entrance examination, deferred and supplementary examination fees, enrolment, enrolment application, registration and admission fees, travel but not living-in accommodation costs for participation in compulsory field work or compulsory excursions, and fees for consumable materials where these are actually charged in approved courses. It has been specified that, in addition to the government technical colleges, these other training institutions administered or maintained by government authorities, which provide technical vocational courses not funded through either of the tertiary education commissions, would be included in this fee abolition scheme. Since adult education was specifically excluded from this fee abolition, all courses provided by eligible institutions were examined, in conjunction with State officials, in order to distinguish between adult education and technical vocational courses. The States had shortly before provided detailed information on all courses in technical colleges to the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education. In these submissions, they were requested to identify individual courses by type of qualification to be gained, whether diploma, certificate, trade certificate; by duration, whether full time, part time and/ or correspondence; and whether falling in the category of hobby and general interest adult education courses. 
With minor modifications, the courses in the category of hobby-general interest and adult education courses were excluded from the application of fee abolition. No distinction was made between full time, part time or correspondence courses of a vocationaltechnical nature, with one exception. Foreign students enrolling in correspondence courses from overseas but not from within Australia were excluded. This exclusion however is not applicable to enrolments by Australian residents enrolling in correspondence courses from overseas - for example, children of diplomatic personnel. Included also are bridging and remedial courses given within the technical education framework. Amongst others, these include matriculation and similar courses. 
As much as possible the procedures adopted for fee abolition in universities and colleges of advanced education have been followed in respect of technical education. The only thing that requires comment is the fee for materials. While there is a precedent at the tertiary level with laboratory fees, it has been necessary to limit the application of fee abolition in respect of fees for consumable materials other than text books, clerical requirements, etc., to those instances where fees are actually charged by the institutions. The practices in this regard vary so greatly between States, and between courses within a State, that it was not feasible to adopt any other course of action without causing a great deal of confusion. It was decided therefore to base it on existing practices in each State, in line with the principle of reimbursing the States only for actual fee income lost. 
The Bill makes provision for the possibility of increasing the amounts of payments to any State. This derives from a statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  when he was Acting Prime Minister in a letter to the Premiers that consideration to an increase would be given only if actual enrolments in the first 6 months of 1974 proved to be substantially in excess of the expected enrolments. At this stage, there are no indications that enrolments are proving much higher than expected but it will be at least another month before definite information will become available. Only one exception has been made in the application of the 20 per cent increase. The agricultural colleges in Victoria had not increased their fees since 1966 and had already publicly announced fee levels for 1974 in the middle of last year. The new level therefore represented an increase generally in line with the actual increases applied in technical colleges in Victoria since 1966. For those reasons, it was decided to accept their estimates based on 1974 fee levels but not to apply the 20 per cent increase in this instance. 
There remains another problem or anomaly which we have tried to correct, or another action where we have tried to deal with a situation where a young person might be sensitive. In various full time post-secondary courses there are people actually doing secondary courses and studying at the matriculation level. They have not had a chance to matriculate at school and because they were doing secondary courses they were not eligible for tertiary education grants. We have decided to extend assistance under the tertiary allowances scheme to students in day matriculation courses provided that they had firstly completed or discontinued secondary education at least 2 years before commencing the courses. We would not want to be giving tertiary allowances to people transferring from high schools, but to those who had broken off a secondary course 2 years previously and had come back later, we have extended the tertiary allowance - that is, the $1,400 plus living allowance as the maximum. The other requirement is that they will be at least 19 years of age on 1 January of the year the course is undertaken and that they are attempting the course on a one-year full time basis at institutions which are non-profit making and which do not have a religious entry test. These provisions will not assist all students undertaking day matriculation studies, nor will they remove the obvious anomaly of providing a different level of benefits under the secondary and tertiary allowances schemes for the one course. The provisions will however extend assistance to more than SOO students in these courses who otherwise would have to finance their own studies. That provision is an attempt to cope with the kind of anomalies indicated by the honourable member for Wannon. I am not sure that I have understood him correctly. I will probably need to look in Hansard at what he said and see whether there is some other problem that we need to chase. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
This is a respect in which it appears to me the policy, at any rate of the State Liberal Party in Western Australia, is at variance with that of the Federal Liberal Party in this House and in this Parliament. The Federal Liberal Party in this House and in this Parliament was the only Party which voted, finally, against the $701 m funding that was associated with the States Grants (Schools)  Bill 1973. Admittedly members of the Federal Liberal Party said that they would reframe the 
Bill and put it up if they became the Government later. But the effect of their action had it been adopted by other parties in the Senate would have been to cripple education during this coming year. On the other hand, in Western Australia  Sir Charles  Court is making promises which would commit the Commonwealth Government to a greatly increased form of educational expenditure in that State. What is more, the State Liberal Party would be paying a very large part of it to developers in the form of rent for schools - a quite astonishing proposal. It looked to me like an attempt to take some of the $701 m which the Commonwealth is finding for education over the next 2 years and to transfer it to some of their well-to-do friends. I think that would be a disastrous course of action. 
I believe that the funding that the Commonwealth is finding at present will put the maximum pressure on the building industry to carry through the construction of schools in conjunction with other programs of the Government. I do not believe this would mean much acceleration, acceleration depending really on the intelligence with which the States can handle the money and can mobilise labour and materials. This was pointed out by Professor Karmel in his report. I certainly believe that the record of the previous years, which showed an expenditure of about $32m a year on state schools by former governments, indicates that they did not have a very much interest in expanding expenditure in that sector. I would also point out that the total program of government expenditure in the field of education 
I would also point out that we have not yet got the report of the Committee for Technical and Further Education which will be recommending further action for the Commonwealth Government. I believe that the actions that were taken last week in this field of technical education, which Opposition spokesmen said they welcomed, will involve additional Commonwealth expenditure. The situation seems to me to be inconsistent with cuts in expenditure that have been promised. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I was named and I do claim to have been misrepresented. In the course of my statement about the Liberal Party having voted against the legislation that enacted substantially the Karmel Committee report I said that Opposition members said that they would reframe the legislation if they became the Government. I suggest that it is on the records of the House that what I have said was accurate. They also said they would reframe it if they became the Government. I confined myself to saying that had it been rejected in the Senate, as they voted, then the funds would not have been available this year. I do not know what their reframing would have involved. But I went as far as their own statements went. I did not name anybody in particular. But I myself was named and misrepresented. 
 The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  will rest assured that I am not going to waste my time passing blame back and forth; I am going to make a statement about the facts. New South Wales for many years has had the worst record in pre-school and kindergarten education of any State of the Commonwealth. I hope that the honourable gentleman will recognise that this is the third matter on which the complaints are unique to New South Wales. When the House was debating the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973 last year the major complaints were coming from schools in New South Wales - the private schools - about how they would be affected by the changed Karmel funding. There was a good reason why the complaints were concentrated in New South Wales. In spite of people like  Senator Carrick  having the effrontery to come here and talk about this Government's record on grants to private schools, the New South Wales Government gives nothing to private secondary schools - nothing at all. One of the complaints 1 had to make about Father Jordan in the days when he was the headmaster of Riverview College was that he complained about our granting $110 a head to his school and made no complaint whatever about the New South Wales Government granting nothing. Of course the position of schools in New South Wales was worse. 
The only State that is making complaints on this pre-school matter is New South 
Wales. Everybody is out of step, except New South Wales! The reason for this is that, whereas the Government of Victoria has financed something like 900 kindergartens, the New South Wales Government has had no pre-school program of any kind at all. There are no complaints from New South Wales in relation to the child care Act because the Liberal Government - I will say this in its favour - had the wisdom to dump section 96 of the Constitution altogether and, under its child care Act, to make grants directly to the organisations without using any State governments as a pipeline for those grants. I personally think that this is the most sensible arrangement that can be made, rather than using State governments as a post box as we do with all our State Grants (Schools) legislation. So, $3. 25m has gone into New South Wales for child care centres and we are dealing directly with local governments. But this pre-school aid is given under section 96 of the Constitution. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wrote to all the State Premiers on 21 January, asking them for their plans in pre-school education. What went up from New South Wales and from no other State was a whinge: 'You are not giving us any guidelines'. If we give them guidelines they tell us that we are trying to control their policy; if we do not give them guidelines they complain. The Prime Minister was not making statements to give them guidelines; he was asking them for their plans. Of course, when the plans came forward, if they met the criteria that the Federal Government had they were approved. The criteria laid down by the Federal Government were that the States were not to reduce their grants because we were giving additional ones. If it is said that the sources of New South Wales grants dried up because Commonwealth grants were in prospect, what on earth is the use of the Commonwealth grants at all if they are not additional but only substitutionary? 
The pre-school grants are made under section 96 of the Constitution, and they go as a grant to the State of New South Wales. Because Cabinet did not get back from the New South Wales Government any clear plans but got only this complaint about guidelines, it had nothing from New South Wales to approve. But it approved instantly the plans that came from other States. Most of them were rational plans. They had their criteria of need clearly set out, they were defensible. The States were told that the money would begin to flow. They know they will be receiving $10m for the remaining part of this financial year. Another $2m will be going into the training of teachers, but that is another matter altogether. 

 Sir Robert Askin was notified on 3 March that up to $3.67m is available for expenditure in New South Wales; that contributions to the cost of advisory services will be approved on a case basis - I say to the New South Wales Government 'Submit your cases'; that costs of approved capital projects, land, equipment and furniture will be met on a basis of priorities of need; that any capital projects that are started in the remaining part of this financial year will continue to be financed in the next financial year; and that an ongoing commitment to capital projects and operational costs will be accepted in the 1974-75 Budget for projects started under the 1973-74 Budget. There could be arrangements for operational support of existing pre-schools designated as contributing particularly to opportunity and need. Then there are existing pre-schools - the ones about which the honourable member for Paterson is worried. They sent a deputation to me. For existing pre-schools, Australian Government assistance would contribute to staff salary costs and be available to avoid the need for parent contributions in respect of pre-schools catering especially for children in need. In other words, they could be used to pay fees that parents could not pay. I might comment also that recurrent assistance is subject to the continuation of the existing levels of State recurrent assistance for pre-schools. 
The New South Wales Government knows that this money will start to flow in April. The legislation will be put through. Everybody else can start proceeding with their plans, but New South Wales cannot. Honestly, this State of New South Wales in these sorts of matters make me tired. When we came in with our isolated children's grants, they were additional in the case of most States but - heaven knows how it has gotten away with it - New South Wales never had an isolated children's grant at all. I am quite amazed, considering that the Australian Country Party was a coalition Party in the State Government of New South Wales for so long, that it had not got that concession from its Liberal colleagues. However, they never did receive that concession and the State of New South Wales did not have such a grant. I am just a little tired of these sorts of complaints from the State Government of New South Wales and I told my distinguished colleague, the Minister for Education from New South Wales, that he had a very simple formula and he lives on this very simple formula. He takes Federal money and does things with it and claims the credit for it. That is very clever politics; I do not blame him for that. Anything in which the New South Wales Government fails is the fault of the Federal Government. He is the Minister of the permanent, perpetual and perfect alibi and this is another case of it in the case of pre-schools. 
The question of accountability is important from the point of view of the Australian Government. It is not a fact that the Australian Government Treasury transfers money to the Victorian Treasury and then waits to see whether the Victorian Treasury can spend it. What happens is that the money is made available as the State requests it with firm contracts and building programs, so that in a sense there is not necessarily a waste of money. For instance, Victoria has available $12,820,000 for the construction of technical colleges of which amount Victoria has so far requested $4,850,000. Victoria states that it will be able to request $5,500,000 before the end of this financial year. If it does so an unclaimed balance of $2,400,000 will be left. I do not wish to take as the criterion of efficiency the ability to spend money. The Karmel report does not do so and Karmel asks for the employment of outside consultants. 
I draw the honourable gentleman's attention to the fact that when a pyromaniac was burning schools in Victoria one of the schools burnt down was Princes Hill school. I understand credibly that the Victorian Department of Public Works said it would take 5 years to build the school. The Victorian Government, unusually, went to an outside consultant and the school was built in 21 months. Money was returned to the Victorian Treasury and the school was awarded an architectural prize so that in this case the lesser sum of money might have been indicative of greater efficiency. That is why I think the Karmel report asks for a diversity of construction of schools. I will admit that the builder in this particular case was a man of exceptional conscience; he was a Labor candidate. Of the Australian Government money provided for Victoria, mainly in relation to new school building projects, only $2,850,000 has been advanced as requested by that State in this financial year. About $ 13.5m is available. I am not prejudging what advances Victoria will ask for in the remainder of the year. It appears that both the Victorian Department of Education and the Victorian Department of Public Works have adverse things to say about one another. Generally speaking, I think the Department of Education feels that the Department of Public Works cannot build new schools and the Department of Public Works thinks that not sufficient attention is paid to maintenance. 
As Minister I cannot sort out Victoria's administration problems for it, but we are concerned that the money should toe spent on providing new facilities and upgrading existing ones as quickly as possible. The stimulus that we have given in the field of technical educa tion has been that where a State cannot spend its money we are prepared to make the money available to another State. I think that is the sensible arrangement. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Australian Capital Territory a wide range of community groups and associations makes use of school classrooms, gymnasia, assembly halls, general purpose rooms, equipment and outdoor playing areas in order to conduct their various activities. These groups include Parents and Citizens Associations, sports clubs, church and religious groups, Public Service trainees, drama and art groups, foreign language classes and community councils. 
In the Northern Territory school facilities such as libraries, open space areas, classrooms, craft rooms and playing fields are made available to local communities for formal activities such as adult education and informal recreational and social activities. Local sports clubs use school ovals, courts and open spaces and fetes organised by local community groups and school holiday camps have been held for a number of years on school grounds. 
The right honourable gentleman will be interested to know that in the third term of 1973 a survey was made of the community use of school buildings in the A.C.T. The survey showed considerable variation in the degree of use of individual schools by the community. In cases of little or no community use the survey suggested unsuitable facilities and prevailing attitudes as the main reasons for low usage. My Department is currently examining the results of the survey and, where inadequate facilities are identified, steps will be taken to rectify impediments to community use. As far as attitudes deterring community use are concerned, the Interim A.C.T. Schools Authority has initiated steps to encourage school principals and staff to facilitate community involvement in educational activities, including the use of school buildings for community purposes. The planned Melba College, due for completion by 1978, is intended to maximise use by community groups through its provision of specially-designed library, gymnasium, arts/crafts and multi-purpose facilities. 
The survey in the A.C.T. referred to in (1) included twelve high schools and thirty-nine primary schools. Of the high schools, five reported little community use apart from activities intimately associated with the school. Seven high schools had a degree of use ranging from regular to substantial. Of the thirty-nine primary schools, fourteen were substantially used by the community, seventeen were used regularly but not to capacity and eight had minimal community use. 
The extent of community use of schools in the Northen Territory varies from school to school but most schools are involved. All sixty-three primary, secondary and area schools in significant areas of population are being used in some way. The role played by the small pastoral property schools is difficult to assess. However, it could be assumed that almost all of the twenty-seven such schools contribute school facilities for community activities on some occasions. 
See (1) above. 
The A.C.T. survey revealed groups ranging from five to five hundred persons who used individual school premises at any one time. The total number of persons using A.C.T. school premises in one year is unknown but the survey indicates that it would be substantial. 
In 1973, 1,374 students were working towards either the N.S.W. Higher School Certificate or School Certificate examinations in classes in A.C.T. school premises conducted by the Canberra Evening College. A further 125 people were enrolled in the 'Public Service - October Clerical' course, and 374 adults of widely varying ages and backgrounds were enrolled in non-examination courses. The total of 1,374 enrolments for 1973 compares with 1,234 for 1971. 
In the Northern Territory approximately 3,000 people were enrolled in adult education classes using school faculties during 1973. In addition, many thousands used school facilities for recreational activities. 
The honourable gentleman is mistaken in talking about the takeover of the services. If the honourable gentleman examined the legislation of his own Government in relation to child care centres he would find that his Government - we have followed suit - established a direct relationship with local governments, churches and any private organisations that set up child care centres, without using the mechanism of section 96 of the Constitution and without using the States as a post box. An amount of $13. 5m will have been committed to capital construction works for child care centres between April 1973 and 30 June 1974. The Government has endeavoured to continue the program of the previous Government at an accelerating rate. Furthermore, more than $lm has been spent in recurring grants and nearly $400,000 on research in the field of child care. 
With respect to pre-schools, the mechanism that is being used is that provided by section 96 of the Constitution. It has been made clear to the States that for the remaining 6 months of this financial year the procedure for them to follow is to put up their cases, whereupon money will be granted. Each State has been told what it will get between now and 30 June. The Government expects that the money will start flowing if the appropriations are passed by the Senate in April. Most of the States know that they will be getting $10m for preschool centres. In addition the Commonwealth is totally financing, without means test, all the fees and all the living allowances of everybody training for pre-school and kindergarten establishments. This comes to over $2m. The States know what money they are getting. The report of the Fry Committee had what the Government regards as many interesting and valuable suggestions which undoubtedly will be implemented. But the conviction of the Government was that what the Fry report recommended was not fast enough in view of the spread of pre-school education throughout Australia. Whilst this may have meant a few weeks delay, and whilst we have been getting a second opinion on the matter and also asking the Fry Committee to discuss this question with the Social Welfare Commission to see what can be done to accelerate the whole program, the whole intention of the Government is to accelerate. I invite the honourable gentleman's attention to the fact that commitments and expenditure between April 1973 and 30 June 1974 will total well over $25m, so it cannot be said that we are doing nothing. 
Answering the last question first, if the New South Wales Government regards its lists as confidential I certainly cannot disclose them. The position is that, under the Karmel report, disadvantaged State schools in New South Wales - I am leaving aside at the moment the non-government schools - are allowed in 1974 and 1975 $9,830,000 for capital construction and $6,200,000 for recurring grants. The recurring grants that they would be entitled to in the first quarter of 1974 amount to $800,000. They have asked for $500,000. 
The honourable gentleman asks whether there are objections. I think it would be fair to say that Victoria and New South Wales object to the Commonwealth earmarking educational grants for any purpose. When I twitted my distinguished colleagues, the Ministers from those States, that they had discovered this principle after the change of government, they indignantly denied this and said that they had vehemently protested to my predecessor about his policy of earmarking grants for libraries and science laboratories. The ideal from their point of view is a one line budget of a grant for education and for them to decide what they will spend it on. 
However, on the question of disadvantaged schools, the minor States promptly said that the main expenditure was going, as far as they could see, to the inner city schools of Sydney and Melbourne. They said that if New South Wales and Victoria objected to earmarked grants they would like the $50m spread right throughout the Commonwealth on the basis of per pupil enrolment. This immediately converted New South Wales and Victoria to earmarked grants as far as disadvantaged schools were concerned. So I feel that basically those States do not have an objection to this arrangement. We have no information on the plans of the New South Wales Goverment to undertake research into the needs of disadvantaged children. I have written to all State Ministers for Education asking for the criteria on which they have nominated disadvantaged schools and the expenditure programs they intend to implement. 
I am charged under the States Grants (Schools) Act of 1973 to satisfy myself that the appropriations that this Parliament makes for disadvantaged schools are spent on disadvantaged schools. I am not a rubber stamp for the plans that others may advance, especially if they have indicated that they object to the program.  Mr Willis  has only just replied. He has quoted the Karmel report criteria for disadvantaged schools but has given no indication of his expenditure programs for relieving disadvantage. The Schools Commission has been asked to discuss with the State Government officials their programs for disadvantaged schools. I hope to be able to report to this Parliament, if I am questioned on the matter, with the utmost integrity how the money is being spent. I say to the honourable member that taking the 400 schools which New South Wales has nominated as disadvantaged it would mean that the average recurring grant for them - leaving aside capital - would be $8,000 a year in 1974 and 1975. The 400 disadvantaged schools nominated is a pretty wide spread. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1973 there were 3S1 Aboriginal children of school age in the Yirrkala area. The average enrolment at the Yirrkala Area School during 1973 was 307 and the average attendance was 213. Approximately 120 children had an attendance record of over 90 per cent. A large percentage of the non.attenders were within the pre-school and infants age groups. Included in the figure of 351 were 45 children at the newly formed outstations at Garrthalala (Caledon Bay), Gurrumuru (Arnhem Bay), Gurrka (Trial Bay), Gangan (Koolalong River) and Barniyala (between Trial Bay and Blue Mud Bay)'. Of these 13 children were still enrolled at Yirrkala Area School at the end of the 1973 school year. 
Schooling for Aboriginal children at Yirrkala, or at any of the schools formerly administered by the Welfare Branch of the Department of the Interior, was not compulsory until December 1973, when by amendment to the Northern Territory Education Ordinance, compulsory education was extended to all Northern Territory children between the ages of 6 and 15, subject to accessibility to school facilities. 
The problems of poor attendance at Yirrkala are being examined in conjunction with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the following actions are being considered: 
the setting up of local education committees to ensure that children will be more strongly encouraged through the deeper involvement of the local Aboriginal Council. 
the provision of a mobile school complex for the settlement of Garrthalala (Caledon Bay) which could cater for a large number of children living some distance from the Yirrkala Area School. 
the possibility of appointing a visiting teacher, based at Yirrkala, to assist an Aboriginal teacher in the outstations. 
Schools in Vicinity of Perth Airport (Question No. 493) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have no detailed information available to me concerning schools in the vicinity of Perth Airport. Informal inquiries show that there could be some 40 schools in the area mentioned in part (1) of the question, and that in certain instances aircraft noise could be a nuisance. The question of reducing the nuisance by insulation or similar measures is probably a matter for the school authorities. If the honourable member has knowledge about the extent of the problem, I suggest that he should approach my colleague the Minister for Transport for his advice. I would be pleased to assist, if needed, in any future discussions. 
The legislation governing child care centres was introduced by the honourable member for Flinders when he was Minister for Labour and National Service in the McMahon Government. That Government was not able to implement that legislation because the government changed at the election. It introduced the measure just before the general election of 1972. Responsibility for the Child Care Act was transferred to the Department of Education and it is wholly unamended. If there are any weaknesses in the Act the responsibility rests upon all honourable gentlemen opposite who voted for it. As I remember it, we did not oppose the legislation, although we suggested amendments when it was before the House. Amounts of $13. 5m in capital, more than $lm in recurring funds and $385,000 for research have been assigned under that Act. In the main the applicants have included churches - the Baptist Church; Methodist Church; Anglican Church, such as Saint David's in Hobart; the Roman Catholic Church and orders such as the Sisters of Mercy - and many local government authorities. In fact, my impression would be that the majority of applicants to set up child care centres are local government authorities. I do not know whether the Sisters of 
Mercy indoctrinate in the Catholic faith. I think the children in child care centres are very young for any form of indoctrination. I am not particularly concerned about these matters. We satisfy ourselves that those involved are respectable, responsible people. I think that their main concern is to help the parents who are working by looking after their children. There is not a scintilla of evidence that any of these child care centres, whether set up by local governments, churches or private charitable groups, have as their motivation any form of indoctrination. 
I want to thank the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  for a contribution to the debate and for making a speech with which I do not agree but which I must respect because of the courtesy and the kind of arguments he advanced. I do not say the same thing for the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  who is rapidly becoming one of the members in this place who follow a very simple technique towards people who honestly disagree with them - identify and defame in order to destroy. The speech of. the honourable member for Stirling was nothing more or less than defamation. 
I want to take up the points made by the honourable member for Gwydir. I must agree with him that no one will ever achieve mathematically equal electorates. The point is: Do we have an Electoral Act in which that is the objective? In the Upper House in Western Australia, for instance, there are Legislative Council seats with 87,000 people on the roll and there are Legislative Council seats with 6,000 people on the roll. The distinguished gentleman at the table, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  and I were engaged in electoral commentary on television, with a State member also assisting us that night, and he swung to me and said: 'Do you cast reflections on the Electoral Commissioners?' Of course I do not cast reflections on the Electoral Commissioners in Western Australia but I cast reflections on an Electoral Act which enables State seats to vary from 2,000 to 22,000 in the Lower House and from 6,000 to 87,000 in the Upper House. 
I do not want to enter into those arguments because they do not apply here, but I remind the honourable gentleman that the 20 per cent variation which he feels is essential and which he implied guarantees against these movements of population does no such thing. I remind him that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  not so many years ago was representing the seat of Bruce when there were 129,000 electors on the roll, and I think the late Arthur Calwell was representing Melbourne which had only 39,000 electors on the roll. It was a very nice situation from the Australian Labor Party's point of view. In those 2 seats for a brief period of time we enjoyed the advantage that the Australian Country Party normally has before there was a redistribution that saw to it that that was eliminated. 
The point 'I am making is that the Electoral Act allows variations but the variation of 20 per cent does not guarantee that the changes inside that tolerance will be in the direction of equality. They may move further in the direction of inequality, and they have persistently done so. I agree with the honourable gentleman that one of the most baffling problems is to follow the movements of population. For instance, as Minister for Education in Canberra I have noted that there are 2 Catholic schools, built not so very long ago, that now have no children in them. One is attached to the Technical College and I think that the other one has become the school without walls, rented out to other people. The movement of population even within Canberra is quite astonishing and the movement of population in and around Perth is equally astonishing. 
All I say is that the Electoral Act should aim at equality of citizenship. I realise that this is a fundamental disagreement between my party and the Country Party, but it is disturbing to be told that if one believes in equal enrolments in electorates one believes in a gerrymander. I wish to heavens we would start using the proper terminology for a change. A gerrymander is fiddling the boundaries of an electorate. If the Labor Party liked to complain - I am not making this complaint - it could say that when the electorate of Kambalda, which had a Labor majority, was put into Boulder-Dundas, which already had a large Labor majority, to make an inflated majority wasting Labor votes, the altering of the boundary could be called a gerrymander. The difference in the enrolment sizes of electorates has nothing to do with boundaries; it is malapportionment, which is an entirely different issue. During a debate in South Australia in the days when the Liberal and Country League was the Government on 35.5 per cent of the vote and the Australian Labor Party was the Opposition on 53 per cent of the vote a letter appeared in the newspapers asking why a metropolitan drink waiter should have a vote of the same value as a pioneer settler in the country, une could equally ask why a country drink waiter m Western Australia should have a vote that is 14.5 tunes the value  01  the vote of a city drink waiter or why a country drink waiter should have a vote that is 14.5 times the value of a city brain surgeon. 1 am not evaluating those occupations, the only point 1 am making is that we ought to aim at equality of citizenship. 
Let us come to the facts. On 8 June 1973 the Minister for Services and Property appointed the Distribution Commissioners. 1 am sure that the honourable member for Gwydir would recognise that with an election in December 1972 and no sittings of the House until 1973 the appointment of Distribution ' Commissioners in June 1973 was not an undue delay. We were not ali possessed of the prescience that there would be an election within less than 12 months: The normal assumption of one who is elected for 3 years is that he will carry on for 3 years. One does not normally live on the assumption that there will be a collision between the Houses of the Parliament on Supply. To turn the whole thing into a conspiracy, as was sought to be done in the extremely slanderous speech of the honourable member for Stirling, is very foolish. 
On 18 October 1973 the Commissioners brought down their report. Then there had to be a 30-day delay for people to lodge their objections. Unexpectedly there was on top of that the referendums of December 1973. Then Christmas intervened. The Minister for Services and Property tabled the report in the Parliament on the fifth sitting day of this year. I do not think any person who has exercised responsibility in this matter would say that there was any undue delay. When he was the responsible Minister, Gordon Freeth did not table a report he received within 5 sitting days; he waited 6 weeks. I am not arguing as to whether he was right or wrong in doing so, but I think it is malice to accuse the present Minister of an undue delay when he brought the report in within 5 sitting days. 
I can say one thing: The most mispronounced seat name in Australia is going to be the seat of Tangney. I do not know why it is impossible for some people to pronounce the letters 'n' 'g' and 'n'. Dame Dorothy used to lament to me how she was always called Tagney. There is a 'tang' about her name, her name is Tangney. I hope all the commentators - television, radio and others - will call this seat by its proper name, which is Tangney, when they are commenting about it It is a seat which will have 54,526 on the roll. The one which will have the largest enrolment will be the seat of Swan with 65,506 electors. lt will be followed by Curtin and then Fremantle. 
The tendency is for the enrolments of the non-metropolitan seats to be smaller, but by a curious paradox the most populous seat in the State is that of Kalgoorlie. That is probably because there are many Aborigines in the electorate who have not bothered to enrol. It may be because there are many ethnic minorities in the electorate who have never bothered to become naturalised or it may be that it is a seat with a young population. 1 do not know why the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  represents more people than anyone else in Western Australia but fewer electors. He has probably the largest electorate in the world in area. In a way, if a disparity in enrolments is to be granted, 1 do not begrudge his having the smallest enrolment. 1 wish to answer one or two of the points made by the honourable member for Stirling. The honourable member spoke about the lack of confidence in Western Australia in the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I remind the honourable member that the Australian Labor Party received 53 per cent of the vote in the metropolitan area and that the Liberal Party of Australia was battling to. get 40 per cent of the vote. So if he is going to talk about confidence in the Prime Minister in Perth he had better revise his thinking. If 48.8 per cent of the vote in the State election in Western Australia is a sign of no confidence in Labor, may I ask what 10 per cent of the vote for the National Alliance is? Is that a sign of confidence? Of course the National Alliance received a line up of very small seats with its 10 per cent of the vote. If we are going to start talking in terms of public confidence we should come back to the realities of the situation. I would be very happy to see reproduced in Western Australia in the election for both the Senate and the House of Representatives the vote that took place at the recent State election. However, 1 did not come down in the last political shower and I know that people do not necessarily vote the same way in State and Federal elections. 
Or between them. The interpretations that are placed on these things, while they may suit propaganda, are I think rarely valid. I think that an honest, intelligent redistribution has taken place within the framework of the Electoral Act. I do not care what result is derived from an election as long as it is indicative of the way the people voted. What does disturb me are the situations that one can get where one has an ultraweighting of votes so that the electoral result is not in truth the way in which the people voted. I ask: What is an election about if it is not ascertaining the peoples' will? No one can answer that question. That is why it is a perfectly respectable argument to advance that there should be a policy of one man one vote, one vote one value. That is not the existing electoral law. Within the framework of the existing electoral law Western Australia has been validly given its constitutional right to a tenth seat. We have reached the point where it cannot be. denied that constitutional right; it must have the tenth seat. Ti the honourable member for Stirling had spent some of the time that he spent on defaming us on assuring us that this proposal will receive the support of the Senate I would have been very much happier. 
For the information of honourable members I table 2 statements. The first covers the Government's interim program for pre-school and child care services. The second covers progress under the Child Care Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The provision of correspondence education in the States, including special tapes for isolated children, is essentially an area of responsibility of State Education Departments. However, the Australian Government is providing substantial financial assistance for the education of isolated children and, through its scheme of Assistance for Isolated Children, provides an allowance of up to $350 p.a. for each eligible correspondent student. The major element of this allowance is a means-test-free payment of $200 p.a. which, whilst not subject to specific limitations, is intended basically to assist with the purchase of textbooks and equipment, such as tape recorders and tapes, required for the correspondence course. 
With regard  to  the education of isolated children in the Northern Territory, which is a responsibility of my Department, a two-year program to equip correspondence pupils with battery-operated players and slide-filmstrip viewers will commence this year. It is not possible at this stage to cost the program accurately, as arrangements for producing associated teaching materials are not finalised. The program is expected to benefit about 300 children in approximately 200 locations in the Territory. 
As recommended in the Karmel Report, the Schools Commission has been asked to consider the question of the provision of additional financial assistance to the States to enable them to provide improved education services to isolated children. It should be noted, however, that both through its programs of general building and recurrent grants and of assistance for disadvantaged schools the Commission is already providing the States with resources whereby a range of education services, . including the education of isolated children, can be developed throughout the community on the basis of need. 
No. As far as my Department is aware, highspeed videotape copiers are not. yet available in Australia. 
I think it true that all teachers in a sense are teachers of reading. It seems to me that illiteracy is in 3 forms. There is the illiteracy of handicap of which dyslexia is one aspect; the illiteracy of ethnic origin - the disadvantage the migrant child might experience in trying to - handle the English language, or an Aboriginal child might experience in trying to handle the English language; and the illiteracy of omission either by dropping out, not having a chance or poor or faulty teaching. I suppose the most stubborn of the illiteracies of handicap proceeds from dyslexia since dyslexia means distortion of words. We have found that it is not caused by mental retardation. It is found in children of all levels of intelligence, including the genius level. Nor is it caused by poor teaching, frequent absences from school, the absence of books from a home, the poor eyesight or hearing of children or emotional maladjustment. 
The Commonwealth Government has granted $43.5m to the States for the education of the handicapped and $ 11.08m for the teaching of the handicapped. That includes the provision of $1.5m under the report of the Special Committee on Teacher Education - the Cohen Committee. The State College of Victoria, Melbourne, will receive $172,500 this year for the training of teachers of the handicapped and $207,000 next year. The 
State College of Victoria, Rusden, will receive $16,000 this year and $16,000 next year for the investigation and teaching of the handicapped. I am afraid that certain disabilities, like dyslexia, must be identified at the preschool level. The sum of $395,000 is being spent on pre-school child research - some of it in the area of the handicapped. The commitment of 'the Commonwealth Government to the provision of a sum approaching $60m this year and next year for the education of the handicapped will include, of course, an attack on the illiteracy that originates in the handicapped. 
As to the illiteracy of ethnic origin, the honourable member will recall that $5.25m was envisaged by the Commonwealth Government as being necessary for the capital works for migrant education so that classrooms could be built into which the children could withdraw for teaching in English. That is an attack on illiteracy in that respect. The sum of $2m was appropriated in the last Budget for that purpose. That was largely inspired by the situation in Victoria. As to the illiteracy of Aboriginal children, the honourable member will know that we have tried in the Northern Territory to establish literacy in Aboriginal languages where the parents have selected that course and it has been found over many years that that lends itself most effectively to transference to literacy in English. If a child does his fundamental primary education in the language of the heart the transference to English is made easier. 
The last point I want to speak about is the illiteracy of omission. We are convinced - a statement I will be making tomorrow will deal with this aspect - that there are many examples of adult illiteracy which ought to be dealt with in technical and further education and that it should be a function- 
By leave - I table the report of the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education. The Australian Government has not yet had the opportunity to consider the Committee's Report in detail, but it accepts and endorses the validity of the broad programs recommended. The report, which I venture to predict will be known as the Kangan report, will revolutionise technical education in Australia. The operative word is education'. The report envisages a major shift of emphasis. It abandons the narrow and rigid concept that technical colleges exist simply to meet the manpower needs of industry and . adopts a broader concept that they exist to meet the needs of people as individuals. These needs include opportunities to attain the highest skills, the most modern technology and the services of a type of education offered, especially in country areas, by community colleges, which I might define as multi-level institutions combining technical and advanced education courses. They can avoid unnecessary duplication with other types of advanced education. 
The report takes a long step in the direction of 'lifelong' education and of opportunities for re-entry to education. It recommends unrestricted access for adults to vocationally oriented education. It removes barriers discouraging adults. It has particular regard to the needs of women, of country students, of migrants and of handicapped persons. Its initial programs support existing technical colleges, improve educational quality and lay the foundations for marked improvement in the next triennium. 
It envisages an expenditure of $105m in the 18 months commencing 1 July 1974 and concluding 31 December 1975.  Major items  in this sum. of $105m are $20m to cover fee abolition, since technical colleges have been made free. Equipment and minor works are estimated at $15.09m, a necessary sum to finance the replacement of obsolete and obsolescent machinery and other equipment, and land and buildings $4 1.1 8m, a figure including a matched sum of $6m from the States. The report breaks the exclusive right of other forms of education to student residences- by setting aside $4m for the residences of technical college students. The report deals with a serious situation. In its own words it points out that: 
Almost 70 per cent of men and over 80 per cent of women in the labour force have no formal educational qualification at the trade, technician or vocational level or a degree. People who become qualified as skilled workers other than at the professional level in the labour force do so in the hard way. They do not have anything approaching equality of access to vocational education with those preparing for a livelihood by attendance at a university or in more recent times at a college of advanced education. 
The report sums up the remedy: 
The concept central to this Report is the provision of unrestricted access to post-school education through government maintained or administered institutions not already assisted through the Australian Universities Commission or the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. Alternatively the major theme can . be described as the removal of barriers from and the introduction of encouragement of entry into technical and further education by all adults. 
Among the Committee's guidelines were some it adopted itself. These were: Firstly, opportunities for technical and further education should be available to people of all ages regardless of minimum formal educational entry requirements or of current employment status. This principle is designed to ensure that throughout life recurrent education should give priority to the needs of the individual as a person and to his or her development as a member of society, including the development of non-vocational and social skills that affect personality. 
The second guideline chosen by the Committee was that the broader the approach in technical and further education the more the likelihood of creating an environment in which self motivated individuals can reach their vocational goals and in which motivation may be regenerated in people who have lost it. There were also guidelines suggested to the Committee in my initial letter. These were: That the assistance given to the States should commence on 1 July 1974; the Committee was to determine needs within priorities; it was to advise how the status of technical and further education might be raised; the development of technical and further education was to be well balanced; it was required to consider the human problems of access to education, of manpower policies, of the range of vocational education available now and needed in the future, and of the quality and volume of resources required to meet needs; its measures of assistance to the States should be additional to the States' own efforts and not substitutes for the States' own efforts; and, the amount, the allocation, and the conditions of financial assistance were to be recommended. 
Since some States seem to have difficulty in assigning resources to technical and further education the Committee has made an important offer of immediate assistance with what I can perhaps call a bonus for efficiency. In its second recommendation out of 30 the report states: $9.81m should be made available for distribution among the States as a general purpose recurrent expenditure grant and a further $9. 81m should be available which individual States may seek approval to apply to recurrent purposes they specify. 
These recurrent sums, whether or not the States draw the whole$1 9.62m are 55 per cent to be spent at the States' discretion and 45 per cent to go for curriculum research and development; the training of professional staff; the development of a central resource centre; publicity to raise the level of community awareness of the opportunities available; counselling services and social work; staff to direct and oversee safety measures - here I might interpolate that the low standards of safety in many technical colleges would not be permitted for one minute in factories - health and welfare of students; in-service training; for the formation of a unit to develop educational specifications for buildings; site plans; and master plans for capital works development and re-development; and for staff for statistical collections concerning student and teacher population and related matters. 
A most interesting recommendation is the third, which is: 
A specific purpose recurrent expenditure grant of $lm should be made available to the States to work towards furthering the concept of recurrent education and unrestricted access to vocationally oriented education, of which a minimum of 10 per cent should be earmarked for assistance to handicapped persons and a further minimum of 10 per cent to develop facilities to alleviate barriers to access discouraging ethnic groups, including means of converting overseas qualifications to local equivalents. The specific purpose includes the easing of entry requirements for courses, access to assessments or awards of qualification without requirement for formal class attendance, extension of preparatory, bridging, transfer and other courses for educational assistance, including meeting adult needs related to primary and secondary schooling. 
The Committee was asked to take into account overall manpower policy and national and local occupational requirements; the optimum use of resources; the emerging needs of industry, commerce and governments as they adjust to technological economic and social change; and community attitudes and the needs and aspirations of individuals seeking to undertake courses in technical and further education. 
The report sets out in detail the scope and powers and terms of reference of a permanent Commission on Technical and Further Education, to succeed the Committee, and if members read this section they will see that the Committee has been acutely sensitive to the needs of the States, empowering the projected Commission to take into account cost escalation factors and allowing for supplementary submissions for additional capital funds required because of unforeseen changes in contracting and similar circumstances. 
The concept of technical education is not as precise as some imagine and the concept of further education is a somewhat elusive one. The Committee's guidelines are therefore creative and valuable. The Committee suggests that at the very least the scope of technical and further education should be: 
all forms of education provided in post-school or other educational institutions by means of which individuals equip themselves for the exercise of occupations in such fields as industry, agriculture, commerce, and community services, and 
all adult education designed to prepare or retrain any person for employment, change in employment or promotion within employment in any branch of economic activity. 
This does not mean that the definition is exclusive and becomes a demarcation obsession. The Committee report states that it does not attach any importance to precise distinctions between institutions. It asserts, in the Government's view rightly, that overlapping of courses between secondary schools and technical colleges and between technical colleges and colleges of advanced education could be beneficial, because such overlapping could allow adults greater access to recurrent education.  Boldly the report accepts  the proposition that some adults need some aspects of a primary education, to make good the years that the locust has eaten, to compensate for disadvantages of residence in early life in deprived localities, or for migrant, ethnic or linguistic disadvantages. Technical and further education includes agricultural education. 
The section on relevance to employment provides for educational liaison with manpower authorities in government, employer organisations, and employee organisations while never losing sight of the objective that individuals should be able to plan to develop their potentialities, regardless of any of these interest groups. I am particularly grateful for the study of general barriers to access to technical and further education. The Committee faces the special problems of access to technical education opportunities in the rural areas, pointing out that we too readily accept the view that there are too few people in one place to justify expensive educational resources within their immediate locality. 
The Report comments: Local industry and commerce may provide only a limited range of occupation and employment opportunities, and the distance from universities and colleges of advanced education restricts attendance at courses to those able and prepared to live away from home. For rural areas this is a crippling disadvantage. The lack of an educational chance can lead to apathy and disillusion. The report rejects' the concept that courses in country centres should be restricted to those courses directly relevant to local employment only. The Committee affirms its belief that courses available in the country should be diversified as far as possible, even though this will mean grasping firmly the nettle of expense, and that diverse courses can be justified on the basis of an individual's desire to study near home even though this may later mean leaving the district to obtain employment for which his training, vocational bent, and developed skills are relevant. 
In 1961 9.6 per cent of the labour force consisted of married women. By 1971 the percentage was 18. The report specifically recognises the crucial role that married women have been playing and will continue to play in maintaining the growth rate in the workforce. It specifically seeks to make provision for married women to re-orient their skills or refresh their skills by making tangible suggestions as to the future organisation as to curricula and timetables. The Committee reacts sensitively and creatively to the disabilities experienced by girls and women, married or single, who have greater barriers to access to technical and further education than boys and men. I refer, of course, to psychological, customary, and . organisational barriers, not legal barriers. There is too much orientation towards subjects for girls and subjects for boys. The distinction is invalid. 
The proportion of women enrolled in technical colleges is too low. It involves a waste of potential skills and doubtless a diminution of creativity and happiness. The idea that secretarial studies is the one desirable field for girls needs to be dispelled. Too few women are employed as teachers in technical colleges. The reactionary notion that it is only boys and men who need career and vocational education and training is too powerful and is rejected as totally invalid. This situation is a reflection of the fact that technical educators have been too conservative in their thinking and tend 'to follow and react rather than to innovate'. The report states: 
The Committee is of the view that the proposed Commission should make special provision within its organisation for continuous consultation with State authorities to remove any access problems women have to courses within technical and further education. 
The report suggests the ending of a powerful and probably unconscious discrimination against the handicapped in technical and further education. Up to the present, technical and further education has contributed Little to the rehabilitation of handicapped adolescents and adults. The authorities 'make no staff provision for continuous examination of the special needs of handicapped adults'. Very few handicapped persons study in technical type institutions. 
The very design of buildings limits chances of access to such education for many of the handicapped. 
The handicapped student is expected to face the insurmountable hurdle of adapting to the college, and we scarcely face our callousness or unawareness of their problems, and do not accept the desirability of adapting colleges to provide for their special and individual needs. There is a model in some respects in the activities of the Commonwealth Employment Service and Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service, which services have developed sheltered workshops and have trained the handicapped for placement in work. The Committee points out the value of further education in developing basic skills for the handicapped as an adjunct to the development of capacity in technology, or any other vocational field, including the alleviation of illiteracy. In chapters 3 and 4 the problems of Aborigines, ethnic groups and immigrants are faced. The lack of formal qualifications among women is exceeded by a greater lack in men in some of these groups; and of course the women of the Aboriginal race, ethnic minorities and migrant communities suffer special disabilities. 
To sum up, the Committee's task was limited to initial action over the period July 1974 to December 197S. The main features of the report are perhaps: The provision of unrestricted access for adults to vocationally oriented education - involving the removal of barriers discouraging adults; the shift of emphasis to needs of people as individuals - this implies that we abandon the concept that technical colleges exist simply to meet the manpower needs of industry; technical colleges should become a competing alternative to universities and colleges - not just through better buildings and services, but by greater attention to course content, student motivation 

<graphic href="088131197404106_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

and community interest; greater flexibility in entry requirements and in attendance requirements; particular attention should be paid to adapting technical and further education to the needs of women, handicapped, country students and migrants; the development of further education - the concept ranging from adult literacy and primary education to advanced studies and technology as an integral part of the education structure open to all; the provision of better means of pre-service teacher education, in consultation with the Commission on Advanced Education; the report seeks to foster community colleges in country areas - multi-level institutions combining technical and advanced education courses and avoiding unnecessary duplication, the funding to be in the hands of the Commission primarily responsible for the particular courses, in consultation with the other; technical colleges should contribute to developing new approaches to apprenticeship training; initial programs are designed to upgrade existing technical colleges, improve educational quality, and lay foundations for substantial improvements in the next triennium. Issues are raised and solutions proffered as basis for action by a permanent technical and further education commission. The financial recommendations may be summarised as follows: 
I ask leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table which sets out the various heads of expenditure amounting to a total of $ 104.897m. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (.1) The Committee on Open University has received more than 170 submissions and is presently examining these in detail. The Committee has had discussions with the representatives of a number of tertiary institutions and bodies about open tertiary education. 
It is expected that the initial investigation will be completed by April 1974 and that a draft report will be issued thereafter for public discussion. A final report will be presented to me before the end of the year. 
Whether or not funds will be required in 1974 will depend on the recommendations contained in the report. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Pre-Schools Committee in its recent report 'Care and Education of Young Children', tabled in Parliament on 11 December 1973 estimated the following numbers of Day Care Centres: 
 I knew Nicholas McKenna fairly closely from 1945 to 1966. The last time I saw him was at the requiem mass for the late Arthur Calwell. As far as I can remember, there are now 4 surviving members of the Chifley Ministry, of which  Senator McKenna  was a distinguished member. The 4 surviving members are Reginald Pollard, Nelson Lemmon, Cyril Chambers and John Armstrong. There are survivors of both the Curtin and Chifley Ministries - Norman Makin and Francis Forde. When I first came to this Parliament,  Senator McKenna  befriended me as a junior member. He was a man with high qualifications in law and accountancy. He was also a man of very considerable political wisdom and, as I remember them, his contributions in the Parliamentary Labor Party were always pointed. They were always what he believed and they were usually effective. He advanced them because he believed them without trying to be a sponge absorbing approval. 
I think that everything he contributed was an attempt to set the direction of Australian politics on a wise course. He was a very distinguished and courteous parliamentarian. I think as Leader of the Opposition in the Senate he helped to maintain a very high level of conduct there because of the way he laid down the course for the Opposition. I think that if there are surviving members of his family all members of this House would want .to join in expressing sympathy to them. 
The honourable gentleman will be aware that I do not know all the expectations which the Victorian Government may or may not have raised in regard to government schools. I can say, however, that in the first quarter of this year the Victorian Government asked for $8.5m of its so-called Karmel money. It could have got more. It received the full $8.5m that it asked for. In the first quarter it spent $6.4m. In the second quarter is asked for $7. 5m, and got it. 
I should explain 2 things to the honourable gentleman. While the Commonwealth over many years has provided library grants for the construction of libraries I do not know of the position of art/craft centres, as they would come under the general funding being provided by the Australian Government. The Victorian Government will not supply information about the state school libraries and it is alone among the State governments in refusing to do this. I can say that in May 1973, after a number of years under our predecessors and a short period of time under ourselves, about 39i per cent of eligible Catholic schools in Victoria and 74 per cent of eligible non-government non-Catholic schools had received their library grants. The figures in regard to government schools are undisclosed. But there is a general pattern which is quite disastrous for government schools. I might give the instance of Queensland. At the same time in Queensland 11.6 per cent of eligible government schools had received their libraries, as did 45.6 per cent of Catholic schools and 66 per cent of non-government non-Catholic schools. 
In fairness to the Victorian Government I want to explain that it complains about the earmarking of grants. The Victorian Government is eligible for $53m of capital which it can draw more or less at the rate that it decides. An amount of $28m is available for general building grants. But the Victorian Government complains that it cannot build new schools out of the money made available to it and it wants a discussion about this with the Australian Schools Commission. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the preliminary report by the Commission on Advanced Education on non-government teachers colleges. 
The honourable gentleman will recall that I tabled the report in this Parliament on 10 April and stated that the Government accepted the Kangan report in principle but would need to go into the details of its programs. That happened to be the day when the Parliament was dissolved. For a period of at least more than a month there was doubt as to which party would form the Government of Australia. Therefore, no further action was taken on the Kangan report. After that there was an interlude for the counting of the. votes before the Parliament could assemble. So I think it could be said that the double dissolution put the study of the Kangan report back by 3 months. 
Honourable members will recall that  Mr Kangan  envisaged that the payments should proceed on 1 July. Because the Parliament did not assemble until 9 July it was perfectly impossible to make, those arrangements. Recommendations have been made to the Government on the Kangan report. The honourable gentleman will have noticed that the implementation of the Kangan report and the Cochrane report - the report of the Cochrane Committee on Adult Training and Re-training - has been commented on in the GovernorGeneral's Speech as a kind of joint activity. I believe that, in order to implement the Cochrane report, Australian technical colleges will need to be. vastly improved, as  Mr Kangan  has suggested. At the present moment certain recommendations are before the Government. Those recommendations will be considered in conjunction with the Budget Papers. But I draw the honourable gentleman's attention to the terms of the Governor-General's Speech. 
The honourable gentleman will be aware that the primary school library program began only this year. Over the 2 years 1974 and 1975 $20m will be expended. Hitherto the action of the Australian Government has been to assist secondary school libraries. I am not aware whether the inability of any specific school in Victoria to get its library in this biennium is unreasonable or it is taking its place in a queue and is being reasonably well treated. However, I can say that there is no imposition by the Australian Government of library standards on a State Government. At both the secondary and primary level the procedure has been to develop good standards for libraries. Generally speaking, the Victorian Government has claimed that its standards are better than those of the Australian Government. But it remains a fact that one of the disadvantages under which state schools have laboured in nearly every State is that non-government schools produce better libraries with the same amount of money. This has usually been because they have taken notice of the standards laid down by the appropriate Australian Government bodies. 
The procedure and the structure of the legislation so far are that we do not enter into a direct relationship with any state school as we enter into a pretty direct relationship with non-government schools. I think that one of the other advantages of non-government schools is that they have not had the interposition of another authority to take away their flexibility. As the honourable gentleman suggests, it would require major amendment of the schools legislation to brush aside the State governments. I am not sure of the constitutionality of that. Queries have been raised by State governments on the innovations program where spontaneously from teachers in state schools brilliant educational proposals have come which the innovations body is prepared to fund. Certain State governments have entered into objections about the granting of money to those teachers. This seems to be rather contrary to their arguments about centralisation. But I shall consider the points which the honourable gentleman has raised. 
The  Chairman  of the Schools Commission has pointed out what is obvious, namely, that if there is a process of inflation then the sums of money which have been postulated for the biennium by the Karmel Committee will not purchase as much. But one rather wonders whether the greater problem is not physical. The honourable member may remember that the Karmel Committee did recommend that the State governments should have the resolution to divert building material to socially necessary projects like schools and hospitals rather than having the labor force and the building material going into the construction of high rise office development in central business districts. 
I draw the honourable gentleman's attention to the fact that $46m was appropriated by both sides of this Parliament for technical education. The honourable gentleman's government provided S36m for the triennium and we added $10m to it. The termination of the triennium found New South Wales with $2,659,000 unspent, Victoria with $2,470,000 unspent, Queensland with $1,628,000 unspent and Western Australia with $475,000 unspent, but Tasmania and South Australia spent it all. I would hazard the opinion that this is because in Hoban speculative builders have not been interested in building skyscrapers, and the entire building force has been able to get on with the job of constructing schools. I really think that more than the erosion by inflation the countercompetition of other forms of building and the inadequacy of the size of the building force and the amount of building material are the main problems. However the Schools Commission is at present looking at the question of erosion by inflation. The honourable gentleman asked me about indices. The Schools Commission is not bound to repeat the Karmel indices which were for an interim form of assistance in 1974 and 1975. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the States Grants (Secondary School Libraries) Act 1971 I present a statement describing the arrangements in accordance with which payments under this Act have been authorised in 1973. 
I congratulate the honourable member on his first question in the House. The Australian Government appropriated $10m for pre-school education and $8. 23m for child care centres during the last Parliament. The Sl Om for pre-school education was the subjeot of one of the Bills rejected in the 
Senate when that House rejected Supply. That Bill was ultimately passed, but I say that to draw the attention of the honourable member to the date, 1 1 April. The authorities were not able to spend that $ 1Om between 11 April and 30 June. Of the SI 8.23m appropriated last year for capital and recurring grants only $8.6m was spent. Therefore, the $34m allocated for this year represents a quadrupling of last year's expenditure. 
The problem with this expenditure is that in some States local government - I dp not want to release in advance the details of the Coleman report, which in respect of the sum of $130m proposed has envisaged a very big role for local government - is not empowered to spend money on pre-schools or child care centres. Many local governments are not interested in doing so and we have found diathe Coleman report does envisage a very big culties in negotiating with them. As I said, role for local government - the expenditure of $82m by it - and I think it would take at least a year's negotiations to get it up to that point of expenditure. The reason for the tentative nature of the Treasurer's statement about the $34. lm was that it may prove to be possible to accelerate the program if there is greater interest in these areas. I also inform the honourable gentleman that as well as the $34.1 m there is at least about $4.6m for training of preschool teachers and personnel. When I say 'at least', we are not now precisely aware of the amount because in 14 colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges, in addition to kindergarten teachers colleges, there are now courses for pre-school teachers, and we cannot dissect from the general expenditure yet what is the amount allocated in that pre-school training direction. But that $4.6m at least must go on top of the $34. lm, and there is a further $4m for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Therefore the expenditure will be about $42m in all. 
Yes, I do acknowledge that I have numerous requests before me. I have 85 requests for child care centres and 236 requests for pre-schools. Of the 85 requests for child care centres my Department classifies 23 as very urgent. It classifies about 128 of the requests for pre-schools as very urgent. I believe that the $34. lm, and what will come additionally to that, will enable the capital expenditure to take place as fast as the institutions concerned can spend it. I draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that $13.5m worth of approvals for child care centres were made last year under the legislation of the former Government and that the whole of that money was not taken up. 
The honourable member must realise that many of these bodies, even after I have signed the agreement with them, have difficulties with regard to labour and materials. I certainly believe that the quadrupling of expenditure will go a long way towards every approved request. But I remind the honourable member that there is a system of priorities and that not everybody who applies will obtain approval in the first wave.. The honourable member would be aware that one comes up against the very old problem in connection with libraries, especially if one is working through local government, that in affluent areas where there is least need for library facilities, local government has put up libraries, and where in the homes there are the most books; whereas in the poor areas there are not. If one just approves requests on the basis of anybody's application one will find that the most affluent areas will get kindergartens and pre-school centres, and the. industrial areas, where there is the greatest need and whose residents may not be so articulate or so able to state their case, will not. 
The States Grants (Schools) Act provides that the Federal Minister for Education needs to be satisfied with the list of disadvantaged schools which is provided by a State government. The Karmel report in respect of capital for disadvantaged schools, for which Karmel assigned $30m, suggested that it had been found by experience that between $150,000 and $200,000 was adequate for upgrading a disadvantaged school. Karmel had seen the transformation of schools by such an expenditure. This pre-supposes that Karmel had in mind about 200 schools but some of the States submitted lists which showed that in their areas there were more disadvantaged schools than that number. This would presuppose too great a dispersal of funds and no significant change in the particularly disadvantaged schools. It was not intended by Karmel that the position of every disadvantaged school in Australia would be remedied in 1974 and in 1975. He pre-supposed an ongoing program and wanted large expenditures on a comparatively small number of the most urgent cases. We have therefore not always agreed with the States' lists of disadvantaged schools. My department and the Australian Schools Commission have discussed these matters with the State government departments concerned and the result is that there is an agreed revised list. 
The State of New South Wales, to which the honourable gentleman referred in his question, has a disadvantaged schools grant of its own and the Minister takes the view that, as far as the general public in concerned, no good purpose is served by specifying what schools are being assisted out of Karmel funds and what schools are being assisted out of the State Government's own funds. I would remind the honourable gentlemen that the system has been operating only since 1 January and under those circumstances I think it would be premature for me to start criticising State governments. We want to be able to look at this, matter more intelligently as the system gets going. 
On the question of migrants, Karmel did regard migrancy and Aboriginality as signs of disadvantage in a school. There is no doubt that a large number of Aboriginal children in a school is a sign of disadvantage because of their poverty. Migrancy is a different question. A school is disadvantaged if it needs to put on extra teachers to teach English, but otherwise it has been found that because of the amount of backing in Italian and Greek homes, for instance, that a child gets - the headmistresses and headmasters of New South Wales schools have said this to me - migrant children in very many cases are among the least disadvantaged because their motivation to education is so good, and that almost invariably the disadvantaged children are 
Australian children. They are the children usually of deserted wives, or the children of single mothers and so on. Behind the others there is a tremendous extended family backing which makes an immense difference to the child. We need to look at this question and have further discussions with the persons concerned. 
I am endeavouring to give a courteous answer to a question. It is a very common characteristic of members of the Opposition to ask 6 questions in one. There were a number of questions in the one I was asked. If I am ever again subjected to shouting when I am answering a question addressed to me by an Opposition member, I will not answer any of them. 
Firstly, I should like to congratulate the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  on his first exercise as Opposition spokesman on education. I should also like to congratulate him on certain features of his speech. Although I do not presume that it is a major part of his argument, I should like to explain to the House why it was perfectly possible to refer to the Priorities Review affair. As the honourable gentleman said, I was ill last November-December and when the Fry report - which was the report of a committee which I had appointed - was presented to Cabinet it might be said that it was presented to Cabinet with 2 demurrers. There was a demurrer from the Priorities Review Committee and one from the Social Welfare Commission. The demurrers were about the lack of diversity and speed in the projected program. The honourable gentleman will recognise that in the child care program at present I am implementing legislation of the Liberal and Country parties, which envisages the establishment of expensive and quite elaborate child care centres. 
If the honourable gentleman wishes to quote from the speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  let us go on from the part where he refers to the Social Welfare Commission and the Priorities Review staff. He goes on to say: 
The program will develop a variety of services including the development of family day care programs, day centres, pre-schools, play groups, outside of school care, emergency and occasional sitter care, toddlers groups and baby-sitting pools. 
That diversity adds to the number of people in the community with whom we must negotiate. Honourable gentlemen opposite will recognise that in their legislation they left the initiative for the development of child care centres to local groups. We have under construction and approved 262 pre-schools and 122 child care centres. Last financial year - let me inform the. honourable member who is getting excited about repudiation  -  SI 2m was approved for pre-schools and $ 13.5m for child care centres. Of that $25. 5m, $3. 3m or oneeighth of the capital was spent. In relation to these private organisations upon whom the legislation of honourable gentlemen opposite rests, we have found that the time between the approval of the. project and its completion is  2i  years. These organisations negotiate with local Governments. They get approval that the land which they have is in the zoning area. They may not get the approval of local Government. They enter into a contract with me. Their plan is approved. They then have to get their builders and so on. It would have been perfectly in order to appropriate $130m. I have no doubt that about the same proportion of it would have been spent as was spent of $25. 5m last year. 
Before the honourable member gets excited about repudiations I point out that there are a number of other expenditures in this area. If we are to talk about accelerations I remind the honourable gentleman that expenditure on the pre-school area and the child care area in the last five years of his Government was $8.35m. This year the expenditure will be at least $43m with an indicated probability by the Prime Minister that the amount will be greater. As long as I am responsible for this matter - I am adamant on this - there will be qualified staff in pre-schools and adequate staff in child care centres. I am not going around being rigid by saying that everybody in a child care centre has to have a degree from a university or any sort of formal qualification like that. If honourable members wish to know my philosophy on this matter - it relates to the expensiveness of staff, perhaps, or at least the time taken to get the staff - it is this: It is unfortunate that some of the justifiable agitation for child care centres and pre-school institutions assumes the eclipse of the family. The discussion on child care centres touches on a fallacy that has gone out of fashion and another fallacy expressing the same error which is becoming more and more fashionable. The unfashionable fallacy is the view that a child care centre exists to encourage a stable and contented female work force with reduced absenteeism. The fashionable fallacy is that a child care centre exists to release a woman to express herself in society. 
Child care centres may encourage a stable female work force and may release a woman to express herself in society, but neither is the purpose of a child care centre. Child care is for the development of the child, for the ability of the child to cope with the world around about it and the people in it. Child care is a preventive service to prevent emotional and health problems. It is a remedial and compensatory service to reverse psychological damage. To be adequate a child care centre needs to give a child responsiveness, appreciation and predictable warmth - the role of a mother for a child whose mother is not able to assume a mothering role at least for some part of the day. A whole series of researchers has indicated that infants in institutions who receive no individualised care beyond feeding, diapering and being kept warm were found to be profoundly retarded or damaged in physical, social, emotional, intellectual and especially language development. My department is engaged in a massive exercise of negotiation with local government. The report which the Prime Minister had long before I did, and which I call the Coleman report or the Social Welfare Commission report, refers to the need to spend $130m. 
The Prime Minister had it during the election campaign. It was perfectly in order for him to refer to it as he could not table it in a non-existent parliament. That deals with the second point made by the honourable gentleman. 
The honourable member knows what an election campaign is. I have no resentment about the matter. I was at one end of the country and the Prime Minister was at the other. He had a comprehensive report on child care which spoke about a vast diversity of services. I have no objection to the fact that at the time I did not know the details of the Coleman report. I think the diversity of services is excellent. If local government is to have the role of spending $82m one has a number of problems on one's hands. There needs to be a number of changes in State law because in some States local government bodies cannot spend money. That is not a role of local government. We need to have willingness on the part of local government. One thing which my Department has encountered is the great unwillingness of local government to assume this sort of responsibility. Some local bodies can be talked into it but if it is merely a question of their willingness honourable members will find that in some areas where child care centres are least needed there is a local government body willing to establish them. In areas where they are needed they are not being established. I make one thing perfectly clear. The Social Welfare Commission report speaks about the areas where it considers priority would be given. But I want negotiation beyond that. It is not merely a question of disadvantaged areas but of disadvantaged people. In some of the most advantaged areas like Toorak there are a lot of disadvantaged children and a lot of disadvantaged people. There are deserted wives, widows and people whose circumstances are quite bad. The identification of those people will take time. Part of the Coleman report points out that when in operation expenditure of $130m is involved. The report speaks of spending $885m over 5 years estimated at the values at the time when the Commission was making its consideration. 
In all these things we will clearly encounter a problem of revving up. This is why in the Karmel Committee Report there is an expenditure of $280m in 1974 and of $42 lm in 1975. The problem is that if we do not have qualified teaching staff on the pre-school side there will be an upheaval in every teachers union in every State. The problem is getting the buildings erected in competition with other forms of educational buildings. It is a fairly formidable program. I have mentioned 122 child care centres and 262 pre-school centres under way. We have received applications. These will not necessarily be the most urgent because people will apply in the future. I am speaking of the elaborate child care centres envisaged by our predecessors. My Department regards 23 of the 85 applications for child care centres as urgent. We have received 236 applications for pre-school centres and my Department regards 128 as urgent. It is no use honourable members opposite saying that either the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  or the Prime Minister stood there and said that a flat $34.1m would be spent and that would be it. That is not the complete expenditure. For instance, it does not take into account the $4.6m that is being spent on the training of teachers at the present time and an unidentifiable amount of money that is being spent on training people at colleges of advanced education. The figure has not yet been extracted. 
I believe that we will have to move to the British position in relation to nursery schools. Every teachers college in Britain which is engaged in training primary school teachers has to give an option of pre-school - nursery schools, as they are called in England - training for 1 year out of the 3 years training. We will have to follow the same procedure if we are to get adequate staff. We will have to have all the teachers college in Australia working on it. The Treasurer has indicated that at the present time he is prepared to approve $34. lm in addition to other expenditures on child care, which brings it up to a total of $44m which is the figure I have mentioned. The Treasurer mentioned also that there would probably 'be a review and perhaps an increase of this expenditure. The Prime Minister indicated in answer to a question yesterday that there would be a probable trebling of the $20m that the Opposition promised. Instead of an expenditure of $34m, of which the Treasurer spoke, it is probable that there will be an expenditure of $63m. My Department has planned for that accelerated expenditure. When I say it has made plans, approval may be given to expend $29m on construction but the construction might not get under way until the next financial year. There could be a program of the most massive approvals. It was a comparatively massive approval last year when $25m was appropriated but only $3. 3m of it was able to be spent. 
Because of commitments made by our predecessors we are working through local and voluntary groups at the moment on the child care centres and, because pre-school is not compulsory, we are working through locally inspired individuals as well. Officers of my Department are visiting areas and trying to inspire local government bodies. Where people show interest the officers negotiate with them. There is no repudiation of the idea that one has to rev up to an expenditure like this. There is the sheer physical problem of the negotiations with all these sorts of people. The Budget will be brought down in September. There will be the enactment of legislation to make available any money that may be allocated in the Budget, and the unspent money of last year to which I have referred will still be available to be used by these local groups. But the concept of a financial year and a Budget has nothing to do with the establishment and organisation of pre-schools. It has nothing to do with the establishment and organisation of child care centres. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (7) There are two main areas of Australian Government activity in what might broadly be termed computer education. 
Firstly, on the recommendation of the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education funds have been provided to survey the existing uses of computers in education in Australia and to suggest options for possible future lines of development. The project was commissioned in November 1972 and is being conducted by a team of researchers headed by Professor A. Wearing of the University of Melbourne. Formal terms of reference are not specified but are represented by the aims of the study as approved by the Committee, namely: 
to map the educational usage of computing in Australia; 
to compare this usage with overseas developments; 
to develop options for future development in the Australian context; and 
to provide for the dissemination of the information resulting from the study. 
A final report on the study has not yet been submitted but it is intended to table the report when it becomes available. Current expectation is that it will be tabled during the 1974-75 Budget Sittings. $12,500 in fees have been paid for the project to the end of July 1974. 
Secondly, at the request of the Commission on Advanced Education a report is being prepared under contract with terms of reference covering the future needs for professional training at the tertiary level in computer and related studies. This project was commissioned in August 1972 and is being undertaken by  Mr B.  Smith, &lt;a computer consultant of Canberra, and  Mr B.  de Ferranti, a management consultant of Sydney. 
A final report has not yet been submitted but it is expected to be submitted to the Commission on Advanced Education by December 1974. Unless research workers plan to publish the results of their investigations, it is the practice of the Commission to distribute copies of the reports it receives to appropriate libraries. A summary of the results of investigations is included in the Commission's Report which is presented to the Parliament. $40,500 in fees have been paid for the project to the end of July 1974. 
If it is without precedent since 
Federation for any government to change electorates towards 10 per cent from 20 per cent above or below the quota- the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  suggests that that is a very significant point- it is also without precedent for the Senate to reject Supply, which apparently the Leader of the Opposition does not think is a significant point.  His  comments on Western Australia and the will of the former Labor Government in Western Australia were a total misrepresentation. What that government has arranged electorally have been compromises that it can arrive at with a Legislative Council in which it has no possibility of having a majority at all. To cite what happens there as the chosen will of the State Government of Western Australia is a total misrepresentation. 
The right honourable gentleman referred to the electorate of Kalgoorlie. Kalgoorlie, he should know, has the greatest population of all Western Australian electorates, although it has the smallest enrolment. The reason is that Aborigines do not have to enrol and many workers in the Pilbara do not choose to do so. Such people cannot be counted. Finally, it was not the Duma or the Parliament of Russia which debated the colour of the clergy's robes during the revolution; it was the Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church. 
This Bill, which has now occupied the Parliament since 13 March 1973, proposes to cut the permitted variation in electorate enrolments from 20 per cent to 10 per cent above and below the quota. It is debatable whether that degree of equalising of enrolments is its major significance, important as that is. What is just as significant is that it will ensure a greater frequency of redistributions, and that is long overdue. Persistently between redistributions there is a tendency for inner city enrolments to shrink, outer suburban enrolments to soar and country enrolments to remain static. The disparities become appalling. 
As instances I give the seat of Bruce, represented by the Leader of the Opposition, as typical of an outer suburban electorate; Gwydir as typical of a country electorate; and Perth as typical of an inner city electorate. Bruce in 1958 had 65,102 on the roll. By 1966 it had 119,445 on the roll. Had the permitted variation been only 10 per cent, the redistribution would have taken place much sooner than it did. Gwydir in 1958 had 41,491 on the roll, and by the 1969 byelection it had 45,104 on the roll- almost static. It had 44,170 on the roll at a time when Bruce had nearly 120,000. Perth in 1958 had 34,493 on the roll and by 1966 the enrolment had sunk to 30,786, a quarter of the enrolment in Bruce. The redistribution in 1968 increased the enrolment of Perth to 58,000. 
By 1966 the maldistribution had become a standing scandal, but the provision that change took place only when 25 per cent of the electorates exceeded the permitted variation of 20 per cent in the number of electors is what has retarded the rate of redistribution. Clearly the redistributions will be more frequent if they take place when 25 per cent of electorates reach a disparity greater than 10 per cent, and the scandal of variations from 30,000 to 130,000 on the mainland outside of the Northern Territory, which has special representation, will no longer develop. 
I would stress that in this Bill we are dealing with a remedy for the inequality of citizens, and that it is vital to offset the chronic injustice perpetuated in State and local government. I have mentioned examples of the denial of citizen rights in the States. For instance, there is a total denial of all citizen rights in the Upper House of New South Wales, for which nobody has to vote. I ask honourable gentlemen opposite which parties maintain that system. In local government in elections for city councils most people have no votes and some have 8 votes. This kind of situation applies in 4 States. It accounts for the abject record of most local government in Australia in housing and social service contrasted with local government in Great Britain. 
I shall deal with the rationalisations which have been advanced when it has been sought to justify the disparity in electorates. The first is that it encourages decentralisation and development in the country. For years South Australia was the State of the most marked over-representation of the country and the least development in the country. In Western Australia only one thing has ever created development in any explosive sense outside the metropolitan area and that has not been the Australian Country Party members; it has been mineral discovery. The present system can guarantee a sharp growth after each distribution draws the electorates back to the degree of equality represented by a 20 per cent variation above and below an average, which means in fact a 50 per cent disparity. If the average is 50,000, for instance, under the present law an enrolment may be as small as 40,000 and as great as 60,000 at the new distribution. Starting off with one electorate 50 per cent greater, it has been demonstrated that that electorate can be 400 per cent greater by the time of the next distribution. 
The danger point for the Country Party has usually been immediately after a distribution. I liked the way in which the Leader of the Opposition skated over what happened in Western Australia as a result of the last distribution. A redistribution took place in Western Australia. It put metropolitan electors into country seats. As a result the Country Party lost Moore and Canning, not to the Australian Labor Party, but to its Liberal Party ally. In the case of Moore,  Mr Maisey  ran third to the Labor and Liberal candidates and his preferences put in the Liberal. In the case of Canning,  Mr Hallett  suffered from the fact that the Labor Party candidate ran third and Labor preferences went to the Liberal Party and not to the Country Party. In that contest  Mr Hallett  depended on the Liberal candidate running third but the enrolment of Liberal voters in a sub-metropolitan extension of his seat ensured that Liberals would be the recipients and not the givers of preferences. 
The second rationalisation of malapportionment is that a scattered population, for some reason or other, needs extra representation. It is equally valid, or more valid, to say that the poor need extra representation. It has become a curious feature of Australian electoral distributions that we have readily argued that property needs extra representation, and indeed, in upper Houses we have argued that it needs exclusive representation. One might argue that the poor, being socially and economically powerless, need extra political representation. However, this Bill does not provide for the weighting of poverty, property or anything else. It ensures that electorates will have only a 10 per cent variation above and below an average on the mainland at the time of distribution. If the average in a State is 50,000 the seat at redistribution may be as small as an enrolment of 45,000 or as great as an enrolment of 55,000. I suggest that that is as far as reason will go. I refer on this occasion, as I did on an earlier occasion, to the case of Baker v. Carr in the United States Supreme Court. The Court stated: 
The weight of a citizen's vote cannot be made to depend on where he lives. 
In Australia we have explicitly denied this in State and Federal electorates. In the States we have blatantly introduced property factors, a form of class war. The United States Supreme Court continued that it would effect: 
Equal representation of all citizens of all places as well as of all races. 
We have recently, by enfranchising Aborigines, moved to equal representation of all races. This 
Bill moves us towards equal representation of all places. The United States Court also held: 
The overriding objective must be substantial equality of population among the various districts, so that the vote of any citizen is approximately equal in weight to that of any other citizen in the State. 
I would reiterate an argument I advanced before. The real reason for the objection to 10 per cent has nothing really to do with 1 0 per cent as a concept of variation above and below a norm figure. The real objection is to the frequency of redistribution. More than a quarter of the seats of New South Wales have a variation of 10 per cent above and below the norm. It is usual, if more than a quarter of the seats in a State have that variation, to have a redistribution. If we make the variation 20 per cent the redistributions will be infrequent. If we make it 10 per cent the redistributions will be more frequent. Should they be more frequent? The argument that the population is constantly changing- advanced by the Leader of the Opposition- constantly moving and constantly enlarging in some areas in Australia today is not an argument against frequent redistributions; it is an argument for frequent redistributions to keep the electorates which we represent in this House relatively equal. 
No points have been made against the Bill itself. There is no real argument against the 10 per cent variation. No real argument has been advanced as to why there should not be more frequent redistributions. Bruce, the seat of the Leader of the Opposition, at one stage attained the size of 120,000 when it had originally distributed at 45,000. That is a clear sign of the need for more frequent redistributions than are taking place today. I support the Bill. 
If it is without precedent since 
Federation for any government to change electorates towards 10 per cent from 20 per cent above or below the quota- the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  suggests that that is a very significant point- it is also without precedent for the Senate to reject Supply, which apparently the Leader of the Opposition does not think is a significant point.  His  comments on Western Australia and the will of the former Labor Government in Western Australia were a total misrepresentation. What that government has arranged electorally have been compromises that it can arrive at with a Legislative Council in which it has no possibility of having a majority at all. To cite what happens there as the chosen will of the State Government of Western Australia is a total misrepresentation. 
The right honourable gentleman referred to the electorate of Kalgoorlie. Kalgoorlie, he should know, has the greatest population of all Western Australian electorates, although it has the smallest enrolment. The reason is that Aborigines do not have to enrol and many workers in the Pilbara do not choose to do so. Such people cannot be counted. Finally, it was not the Duma or the Parliament of Russia which debated the colour of the clergy's robes during the revolution; it was the Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church. 
This Bill, which has now occupied the Parliament since 13 March 1973, proposes to cut the permitted variation in electorate enrolments from 20 per cent to 10 per cent above and below the quota. It is debatable whether that degree of equalising of enrolments is its major significance, important as that is. What is just as significant is that it will ensure a greater frequency of redistributions, and that is long overdue. Persistently between redistributions there is a tendency for inner city enrolments to shrink, outer suburban enrolments to soar and country enrolments to remain static. The disparities become appalling. 
As instances I give the seat of Bruce, represented by the Leader of the Opposition, as typical of an outer suburban electorate; Gwydir as typical of a country electorate; and Perth as typical of an inner city electorate. Bruce in 1958 had 65,102 on the roll. By 1966 it had 119,445 on the roll. Had the permitted variation been only 10 per cent, the redistribution would have taken place much sooner than it did. Gwydir in 1958 had 41,491 on the roll, and by the 1969 byelection it had 45,104 on the roll- almost static. It had 44,170 on the roll at a time when Bruce had nearly 120,000. Perth in 1958 had 34,493 on the roll and by 1966 the enrolment had sunk to 30,786, a quarter of the enrolment in Bruce. The redistribution in 1968 increased the enrolment of Perth to 58,000. 
By 1966 the maldistribution had become a standing scandal, but the provision that change took place only when 25 per cent of the electorates exceeded the permitted variation of 20 per cent in the number of electors is what has retarded the rate of redistribution. Clearly the redistributions will be more frequent if they take place when 25 per cent of electorates reach a disparity greater than 10 per cent, and the scandal of variations from 30,000 to 130,000 on the mainland outside of the Northern Territory, which has special representation, will no longer develop. 
I would stress that in this Bill we are dealing with a remedy for the inequality of citizens, and that it is vital to offset the chronic injustice perpetuated in State and local government. I have mentioned examples of the denial of citizen rights in the States. For instance, there is a total denial of all citizen rights in the Upper House of New South Wales, for which nobody has to vote. I ask honourable gentlemen opposite which parties maintain that system. In local government in elections for city councils most people have no votes and some have 8 votes. This kind of situation applies in 4 States. It accounts for the abject record of most local government in Australia in housing and social service contrasted with local government in Great Britain. 
I shall deal with the rationalisations which have been advanced when it has been sought to justify the disparity in electorates. The first is that it encourages decentralisation and development in the country. For years South Australia was the State of the most marked over-representation of the country and the least development in the country. In Western Australia only one thing has ever created development in any explosive sense outside the metropolitan area and that has not been the Australian Country Party members; it has been mineral discovery. The present system can guarantee a sharp growth after each distribution draws the electorates back to the degree of equality represented by a 20 per cent variation above and below an average, which means in fact a 50 per cent disparity. If the average is 50,000, for instance, under the present law an enrolment may be as small as 40,000 and as great as 60,000 at the new distribution. Starting off with one electorate 50 per cent greater, it has been demonstrated that that electorate can be 400 per cent greater by the time of the next distribution. 
The danger point for the Country Party has usually been immediately after a distribution. I liked the way in which the Leader of the Opposition skated over what happened in Western Australia as a result of the last distribution. A redistribution took place in Western Australia. It put metropolitan electors into country seats. As a result the Country Party lost Moore and Canning, not to the Australian Labor Party, but to its Liberal Party ally. In the case of Moore,  Mr Maisey  ran third to the Labor and Liberal candidates and his preferences put in the Liberal. In the case of Canning,  Mr Hallett  suffered from the fact that the Labor Party candidate ran third and Labor preferences went to the Liberal Party and not to the Country Party. In that contest  Mr Hallett  depended on the Liberal candidate running third but the enrolment of Liberal voters in a sub-metropolitan extension of his seat ensured that Liberals would be the recipients and not the givers of preferences. 
The second rationalisation of malapportionment is that a scattered population, for some reason or other, needs extra representation. It is equally valid, or more valid, to say that the poor need extra representation. It has become a curious feature of Australian electoral distributions that we have readily argued that property needs extra representation, and indeed, in upper Houses we have argued that it needs exclusive representation. One might argue that the poor, being socially and economically powerless, need extra political representation. However, this Bill does not provide for the weighting of poverty, property or anything else. It ensures that electorates will have only a 10 per cent variation above and below an average on the mainland at the time of distribution. If the average in a State is 50,000 the seat at redistribution may be as small as an enrolment of 45,000 or as great as an enrolment of 55,000. I suggest that that is as far as reason will go. I refer on this occasion, as I did on an earlier occasion, to the case of Baker v. Carr in the United States Supreme Court. The Court stated: 
The weight of a citizen's vote cannot be made to depend on where he lives. 
In Australia we have explicitly denied this in State and Federal electorates. In the States we have blatantly introduced property factors, a form of class war. The United States Supreme Court continued that it would effect: 
Equal representation of all citizens of all places as well as of all races. 
We have recently, by enfranchising Aborigines, moved to equal representation of all races. This 
Bill moves us towards equal representation of all places. The United States Court also held: 
The overriding objective must be substantial equality of population among the various districts, so that the vote of any citizen is approximately equal in weight to that of any other citizen in the State. 
I would reiterate an argument I advanced before. The real reason for the objection to 10 per cent has nothing really to do with 10 per cent as a concept of variation above and below a norm figure. The real objection is to the frequency of redistribution. More than a quarter of the seats of New South Wales have a variation of 10 per cent above and below the norm. It is usual, if more than a quarter of the seats in a State have that variation, to have a redistribution. If we make the variation 20 per cent the redistributions will be infrequent. If we make it 10 per cent the redistributions will be more frequent. Should they be more frequent? The argument that the population is constantly changing- advanced by the Leader of the Opposition- constantly moving and constantly enlarging in some areas in Australia today is not an argument against frequent redistributions; it is an argument for frequent redistributions to keep the electorates which we represent in this House relatively equal. 
No points have been made against the Bill itself. There is no real argument against the 10 per cent variation. No real argument has been advanced as to why there should not be more frequent redistributions. Bruce, the seat of the Leader of the Opposition, at one stage attained the size of 120,000 when it had originally distributed at 45,000. That is a clear sign of the need for more frequent redistributions than are taking place today. I support the Bill. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
For an answer to this question I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply on 24 July 1974 (Hansard, pp. 626-627) to Question No. 329 which was asked by the right honourable member. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
For an answer to this question 1 refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply on 24 July 1 974 ( Hansard page 625) to Question No. 97 which was asked by the right honourable member. 
I should like to pay a brief tribute to Frank Green. When I was first elected to this Parliament in 1945 he was a very kind and valued adviser to me, as a new member, about how to settle into the Parliament. I agree with the honourable member who spoke of his sense of humour. I remember that sometimes he used to depart from this place saying that he was going to look up  His  Holiness 's telephone number, which meant Vat 69, or was going to pay his respects to the British Royal Family, which meant King George IV. He always had those pleasant touches in his conversations with you.  His  wit in giving advice on political affairs was one of the ways in which it was made palatable. I very greatly valued his professional work as a  Clerk  of this House. He was a very distinguished  Clerk.  He will be remembered for his tremendous knowledge of the past of this House and for his kindness to all people. 
I would be surprised if a decision on an individual case were being determined in Canberra. When applications are made for tertiary allowances they are usually made in the State office. I am not going to accept automatically that the officers are at fault and that everything was perfect with the application or that the entitlement is not in dispute. There has been an enormous increase in the number of individuals receiving tertiary grants. When there was an increase this year the officers of my Department in the States and elsewhere were working overtime 3 nights a week and also all Saturday processing the applications. I will not say that the officers concerned are infallible and that all the decisions have been perfect. Sometimes appeals come through to me and sometimes the decisions are reversed. 
Yes, there is a means test. It was inherited from the previous Government and is virtually identical to that of the previous Government except that the income limit has been increased each year. The amount of money has been increased. 
-Of course. That has always been the case in all the adjustments over the years. The increases have been in response to a changed purchasing power of money; I do not dispute that. If the honourable gentleman gives me the details of the case, the name of the individual, I will certainly see whether there have been unjustifiable delays and whether the man concerned is eligible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides grants for universities for a number of purposes- for universities to undertake programs high in the Government's social and educational purposes. Special grants are to be available to specified universities to increase teaching and research in special education of the handicapped, to establish courses or chairs of community practice associated with community health centres, and to increase the number of social workers in training. We believe these programs will produce sound professional staff and add to the community's capacity to meet needs in these fields. 
Secondly, funds are to be provided to the University of Newcastle to allow for the planning of a new medical school in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee on Medical Schools of the Universities Commission. Thirdly, the Bill provides for an Australian Government contribution towards the costs of acquiring the site of a new university at Campbelltown, New South Wales. Further assistance towards the development of this university will be provided when the Government considers the recommendations of the Universities Commission for the triennium 1976-78. 
The Bill provides for administrative matters which have arisen since legislation on grants to universities was passed by the Parliament during the Autumn sittings of 1973. Monash University proposed to speed the introduction of a social work course and special assistance was provided for this purpose. Unfortunately, the University found that it was unable to achieve its objective, and the additional earmarked grant is to be repealed. In the legislation enacted during the 1973 Budget sittings provision was also made in Part IV of the First Schedule to the Act to establish a School of Management Education at the University of New South Wales. Necessary amendments in Parts II and III of the First Schedule to accord with this provision were overlooked. This Bill makes the necessary machinery amendment although this does not represent any increase in the commitment of funds beyond that already intended in the previous legislation. 
When the Australian Government assumed full financial responsibility for tertiary education from January 1974 amendment was necessary for proportions of payments to be made by the State governments. In section 8 of the principal Act which is related to student residential accommodation, the word 'one-twentfth' was included as the States' share but this related to total cost and not to the amounts shown in the relevant Schedule attached to the Act which represent the Australian Government contribution. It is necessary to amend the proportion from 'onetwelfth' to 'one-eighth'. The State governments are aware of the need for this particular amendment to the legislation. 
As I have already mentioned, the Australian Government assumed full responsibility for the financing of tertiary education from 1 January 1974 and since that time it has become evident that one of the exceptions contained in the existing definition of 'fees' in the principal Act relating to fees payable to student organisations requires clarification. Provision has been made in the Bill to provide for this clarification. The purpose of the Bill is to amend the existing States Grants (Universities) Act 1972-73 to make the financial provisions and the necessary machinery and administrative amendments I have mentioned. The measures included in the Bill require a financial commitment of $840,000 for capital expenditure, and $345,000 in 1974 and $563,000 in 1975 for recurrent purposes. I hope the Parliament will enable this Bill to become an Act. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Department of Education Report for 1973. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report dated August 1974 by the Schools Commission entitled 'Supplementary Funds for Programs Administered by the Schools Commission'. The Government has applied the recommendations of this report to its school program for 1974 and 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Prior to the establishment of the Office of the Australian Development Assistance Agency, my Department, on behalf of the Department of Foreign Affairs, provided services (e.g. placement in institutions and supervision of studies) for overseas students sponsored under various Australian Government aid schemes, such as the Colombo Plan. 
My Department is at present continuing to provide these services on behalf of the Office of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. A full transfer to the Agency is at present being negotiated and will be effected in the near future. The Agency will also assume responsibility for the Scheme of Commonwealth Co-operation in Education, which hitherto has been a responsibility of my Department. The Scheme includes the Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan, which has both aid and non-aid components. My Department will retain the non-aid component of the Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan, which involves academic awards to students and senior visitors from the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand. 
When the planned transfer takes place, my Department will no longer have responsibility for foreign aid functions. 
Joint Committee on Prices: Government Action  (Question No. 141) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) This question raises a matter of policy. When a decision has been made by the Government it will be announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian European Awards Program was introduced in July 1973 basically to reciprocate the various offers made by European countries to Australian students. 

During 1973-74 the Scheme was not fully operational. The cost was $23,085. 
It is anticipated that the Scheme will be fully operational in 1974-75 at an estimated cost of $90,000. 
Until 30 June 1974, 13 postgraduate awards had been made. In a full year of operation the Program provides for twenty awards. These are primarily for an academic year of postgraduate study at Australian tertiary institutions. There is also limited provision for senior fellowships to enable eminent European academics and educationists to visit Australia for study programs of up to three months. 
The first postgraduate award was taken up in February 1974. 
The benefits provided for postgraduate scholars are return economy air fares to and from Australia, a living allowance of $2,925 per annum, a marriage allowance of $700 per annum and a dependants allowance of $234 per annum, in addition to other miscellaneous expenses. The senior fellowships provide for a first-class return air fare and a daily allowance. 
The thirteen award holders, their fields of study and institutions are as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 30 June 1973 there was a total of 4,877 students from overseas countries attending Australian universities and approximately 2,216 overseas students attending other tertiary institutions. The latter figure does not include a number of private overseas students attending teachers colleges for whom details are unavailable. 
Of the 2,2 1 6 overseas students attending other tertiary institutions, 365 were being sponsored financially in some way by the Australian Government. 
Details of sponsorship of overseas students attending Ausralian universities are provided below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The last calculation of this kind was undertaken in December 1973, in respect of the recurrent expenditure estimates provided by six States and two Territories for the financial year 1973-74. The national average figures (to the nearest dollar) calculated from these estimates were $379 per primary pupil and $640 per secondary pupil. I am unable to provide separate figures for each State. The States made their data available solely for the purpose of enabling national averages to be calculated, and on the condition that separate State averages would not be released. 
My Department will repeat the calculation for 1974-75 after the Commonwealth and State budgets have been brought down. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) My Department has not made use of any management consultant firms in the period specified. 
In the last financial year the Australian Government's expenditure on nongovernment schools was $70m. In the estimates of the grants to the States- and that is the way in which grants are made to non-government schools- the expenditure for this financial year is $120m. This is a rise of $50m, which is an odd way of discriminating against these schools. In addition there is $20m unallocated as between government and non-government schools in this financial year compared with $2m in the last financial year- a tenfold increase. The amount going to either sector will depend very much upon innovations. There is also another important non-government sector of educationmission schools. In the last financial year the grants to them were $295,000. In this financial year they will be $1,282,000. The honourable member making these criticisms was burking the issue, but I do not want to accuse him of modelling himself on his hero, Edmund Burke. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill has 2 main purposes. First it provides for an additional full time  Deputy Chairman  of the Universities Commission. This will bring the membership of the Commission to eleven. At present the Commission has a full time  Chairman,  Professor Karmel, and  Deputy Chairman,  Professor Bull, and 8 part-time members. There are now 17 universities, and the Wollongong University College will achieve full university status in 1975. In addition the Government has approved in principle the establishment of new universities at Albury/Wodonga, Campbelltown and Geelong. Members will be aware, through the legislation which has been before this House, of the successive initiatives which the Government has taken in relation to universities- the abolition of fees and the assumption of full financial responsibility by the Australian Government, provision for needy students, new and expanded medical schools, and support for new programs in social work, special education and community practice. Altogether the workload on the Commission has increased markedly in recent years and, given the major tasks of the universities in teaching and research, will not diminish in the years to come. 
Professor Karmel himself has been heavily engaged in a number of special inquiries, quite apart from his historic work with the Karmel Committee on Schools, and is at present bringing to a conclusion the report on open tertiary education. The Government has therefore decided that an additional  Deputy Chairman  of the Commission should be appointed to assist with aspects of university programs which warrant special inquiry. He would have a particular responsibility for scientific developments and the establishment of new universities, and would provide high level representation for the Commission on committees concerned with these matters. The appointment would be at the same terms and conditions as for the present  Deputy Chairman. 
The second main purpose of the Bill is to amend the definition of 'university' in the principal Act to restrict the meaning of the word to institutions established by the Australian and State Parliaments. Some self styled 'universities', which are in fact private coaching or teaching organisations, have been established from time to time, some of them with questionable educational standards and offering degrees and awards of doubtful content. The proposed amendment places no restriction on the activities of such organisations but makes it clear that the Commission will not make recommendations in respect of them; and this means they are not accepted as universities by the Government or the Commission. The Bill also includes 2 machinery measures. In accordance with the Government's practice, the word 'Australian' will be deleted from the Commission's title and it will become the Universities Commission. Provision has also been made for the remuneration of members of the Commission to be determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Adermann)  adjourned. 
I table a statement of Government programs in education. I seek leave to incorporate them in Hansard. 
Pursuant to section 33 (2) of the Australian National University Act 1946-1973 I present for the information of honourable members the report of the Council of the Australian National University for the calendar year 1973. 
A considerable volume of correspondence is being sent to me by people who are expressing disquiet that State governments are not spending as additional sums of money the so-called Karmel grants, or the grants under the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973 to the States. I draw the honourable gentleman's attention- answering his third question first- to the fact that section 59 of the States Grants (Schools) Act, which goes on for  2  pages, specifies every section of the Act. It requires me to lay before both Houses of this Parliament the details of every form of State government expenditure on State schools after the academic year. That would mean that the information should be available as early as possible next year. So whether the money was spent on laboratories, programs for disadvantaged persons or any of the Karmel programs whatsoever, I am required to present those details to the Parliament. If a State government declines to give that information it would not be flouting me; it would be flouting this Parliament which has enacted that requirement. 
On the subject of the grants to the States, I remind the honourable gentleman that the Prime Minister had an arrangement with the Premiers whereby the capital expenditure of the States should be the average of that of the 3 financial years before the Prime Minister made his arrangements with the State Premiers in 1973. The Prime Minister also made an arrangement with the Premiers that the percentage of their housing and other expenditure of a capital nature for which they accepted responsibility should not be lower than it had been before the commencement of the arrangement. As far as recurring grants are concerned, State appropriations must not be below the appropriation for the financial year 1971-72; it must be the same percentage of their recurring budgets. I think it will be possible for all of those things to be required. The Australian Schools Commission is obtaining information of an interim character. The details of every specific school are required of a State at the end of an academic year and they must by law then be made available to this Parliament. The honourable member in his question expressed the desire to know about these things. If any honourable gentlemen are interested in expenditure in their own localities we would certainly ask the State government concerned for the information. But in fairness to the States, I think that this information could be given only at the end of a complete academic year if one were to make any inferences or generalisations about their programs. 
I read an article in the 'Australian Quarterly'. I would like to inform the honourable gentleman that the Australian Government and the State governments, which jointly have an interest in the Curriculum Development Centre, have authorised it to carry out research into the whole question of the teaching of social sciences in Australia. The purpose of this is to endeavour to ensure that the teaching of social sciences in Australia is valid. In addition, the Curriculum Development Centre has authorised  Dr Betty  Watts to supervise the preparation of what I might call a teaching kit on the Aboriginal peoples. There are many cultures among Aborigines. I would hope that the findings of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies would go into our schools and our school textbooks. However, I think that the article in the 'Australian Quarterly' was itself an extremely prejudiced piece of work. It had a lot of strictures to offer on European cultures and what it regards as fallacies in European cultures. The article contained the complete implication that, although children may derive bias from many quarters, they derive bias from the one quarter which is under the control of the Government-school textbooks. I hope that school textbooks will not be under the control of any government. I want school textbooks to be produced by scholars who are seeking to advance valid information. I would think that the assessment of Aboriginal culture should be honestly done according to anthropological findings and according to the facts. I agree that bias of a destructive kind against the people would of itself be entirely unscientific because the cultures that people have are usually the products of their environment and situation, and any inferences of superiority or inferiority arising out of them would be unscientific. I would hope that there is no suggestion of government direction of scholarly research. 
It will be clear from the Budget Speech that the Government is continuing to give priority to the needs of education. I wish to outline the new measures that are implicit in this Budget For reasons of time, I must speak in broad terms and about selected areas; but, so that honourable members may have details of the Government's education program, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a fuller statement covering all aspects of that program. 
in reply- In answer to the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  the demand of students for a particular course is, of course, evidence that a university can put to the Universities Commission when it is demanding funding. What we are mostly interested in in this measure, however, is the training of the teachers of the teachers. That is a somewhat more specialised matter, I think, than has been said. It acts as a multiplier- we have people who can train a considerable number of students. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  asked me for a definition of community practice. This expression does not necessarily come from the existence of community health centres, about which there is controversy. It comes to education from discussions that are now taking place in the regions of health. I would say that community practice- the definition on which we operate- is eld to be concerned with the principles and practices of promoting health and the delivery of primary health care in situations outside of hospitals, that is, to the community. It includes general medical practice and aspects of geriatric and rehabilitation services, counselling programs concerned with drugs, alcohol and family welfare, community mental health and maternal and child health services, again outside of hospitals. Community practice is concerned with the integration of services provided to individuals and families in the community, and its approach is therefore necessarily multi-disciplinary. This matter has been considered and honourable members opposite will recollect that their parties set up the Committee on Medical Schools under the Universities Commission. It happened that that Committee put in its report to me after the change of government. The Committee on Medical Schools stated that it wished: 
To emphasise that it does not support the creation of departments of general practice or community medicine located entirely in an academic setting and divorced from actual practice in the community. 
It was the body which was set up under the previous Government and which reported on medical education that has asked for this form of medical education. Sidney Sax, the  Chairman  of the Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission, and Peter Karmel, the  Chairman  of the Australian Universities Commission , jointly stated: 
We support this position most strongly. For this reason we do not propose that support should be provided for a program in community practice in a medical school which has no access to an appropriate community health centre. The Australian Universities Commission has already received approaches from some universities. The Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission and the Australian Universities Commission have considered this matter and propose that: 
the Australian Universities Commission should seek special funds to support the academic component of departments of or courses in community practice in those universities which seek such funds, provided that the Interim Committee of the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission has already decided to support new community health centres or to approve existing ones which could appropriately be associated with the medical school concerned. 
This measure implements that. The honourable member who referred to the university in Victoria I think needs to be reminded that the delays of which he complained concerning the university began under my predecessor,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, who, as Minister for Education and Science, was most insistent that he was not going to act to make a Commonwealth component grant, which would have been the practice under his Government, towards any university in Victoria unless it was recommended by the Universities Commission. The Universities Commission was complaining about delays in getting specific information on anticipated student trends before the change of government. 
It is the function of the Universities Commission or the Commission on Colleges of Advanced Education to go into these questions. I invite the attention of the honourable gentleman to the fact- and neither of us came down politically in the last shower- that when the funding of tertiary institutions was joint State and Commonwealth there were 7 Treasuries with an interest in blocking a vast expansion in expenditure. Now there is only one, and the State Treasury will cheerfully support a position in which a country town of 15,000 is to get 2 libraries, both worth a couple of million dollars, for institutions just a few miles apart. In the days when the State Treasuries took responsibility they would not have touched that proposition with a barge pole. So the mere fact that some claimants must wait a while for the allocation of resources- and we are allocating enormous resources to education- does not mean that there is hostility or neglect on the part of the Government. The advocate from a given area seeking the establishment of a university of course can have a very simple approach: Any funds spent in his area, not matter how few students are involved, would be justified. But that, of course, cannot be and never was the attitude of the Universities Commission. 
The honourable member for Moreton has complained about comparing unlikes. If there is a State component in only one of 2 successive financial years- even if there is only a State component for only half a financial year as there was in the last financial year- one cannot say that Commonwealth expenditure when it increases represents increased effort put by the community into university education. Hereafter we will be comparing like with like. This financial year the funds- the Australian people's funds- are coming entirely through one Treasury. Of course I agree with the honourable member for Moreton that they are the Australian people's funds. But they are coming nevertheless entirely from one Treasury. Next financial year they will again be coming entirely through one Treasury. But whichever way one likes to analyse the position, the Australian expenditure on education is very greatly increased. 
I do not want to make this as a statement comparing the attitudes of governments to education. I merely want to instance the destination of released funds. I invite the attention of honourable gentlemen opposite to the fact that in the last biennium of the McMahon Government, all up, grants to schools- capital grants and recurring grants to government and non-government schools- were $112m. With the adjustment of $75m now being made and the recommendations of the Schools Commission adding to the Karmel grants, 'all up' grants in this biennium amount to $788m which in money terms- and I admit the factor of inflation- is slightly more than 7 times as much. This amount represents a very considerable increase. Of course, it is the function of the Schools Commission to maintain the value of those grants. The point is that Australia is putting increased resources into education. The State governments were quite willing to get rid of the burden or the problem of tertiary education. This is a field in which there is the prospect of an unlimited growth in demand. An all-over view, such as the Federal Government has of the allocation of resources in this field, seems to have been supported as the basis of a desirable new financial procedure by all the State Premiers. 
Answering other points we were not critical of the students when we felt that we could not incur the cost of their private activities. I would have thought that they would not have wanted, for instance, Government funding of their student publications. I would not, myself, like to be answerable for them. Some of the publications of some years ago were magnificent. But students ought to want to be politically independent. They receive a grant of $100 as university students outside of what they receive for living expenses. We wanted them to receive this money not as paid to societies but independently to students as an incidentals grant. The student can then decide whether he or she wants to pay this money into the rugby union or some specific society of his or her choice. In my view it is up to the societies to be attractive enough to enlist the students into their affairs or activities. I believe that it would be quite wrong for us to be funding these societies directly and to assume that all students wanted to be members of them. But we have not been opposed to student expenses in these respects being met. We have wanted to approach this matter by way of grants to the students as persons and to provide an incidentals allowance the expenditure of which was within their decision as distinct from a living allowance to cover these activities. I thank the House for its welcoming of the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The resulting flow of funds to the States for technical and further education, in the two years which began on 1 July this year, will enable a significant development to occur in an area of education which, important though it is, has been neglected in past years. States are already well advanced in their planning for the expenditure of these funds and there seems little doubt that the substantial Australian Government financial assistance to be given, combined with the continued efforts of the States themselves from their own resources, will make an impact upon the quality of technical education. There are special areas of impact where this appropriation should enable significant developments to occur. Among them are general purpose recurrent funds for expenditure on technical and further education at the discretion of the States, purchase of land for future developments, the provision of buildings and purchase of equipment, in-service staff development, the improvement of library buildings, the training of library technicians, the planning of community colleges, and, for the first time for technical education, provision of residential accommodation, and research. 
The Government hopes that the results of its decision will be clearly seen within the initial two years of the program not only in terms of bricks and mortar but in a new spirit of enthusiasm held by those directly concerned with this area of education. The program is important for the decentralisation of educational facilities both in urban and country areas and is an essential part of bringing education to the people and making it a lifelong process. The program should dovetail with, and be augmented by, the new expenditures in connection with the national employment and training scheme, which will require the services of technical colleges. The technical and further education program is thus important in the implementation of the Government's overall strategy for manpower development and training. 
It is the Government's intention to bring down legislation to appropriate the funds needed to launch the several programs recommended by the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education and accepted by the Government. The Government will also introduce legislation to establish a permanent commission on technical and further education. Meanwhile, interim standing committees are in the process of being established, to work in the areas of course development, buildings and equipment, statistics and occupational trends, research and libraries and finance. The new commission will advise me on the future needs of technical and further education including adult education outside the universities and colleges of advanced education. 
The Kangan report states that the main purpose of education is the betterment and development of individual people and their contribution to the good of the community, and that technical and further education should have this emphasis in common with other areas of education. The developments in technical and further education I have outlined will proceed in this spirit which accords with a defensible view of some of the objectives of an education policy. 
Pursuant to section 52 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act 1972-1973, I present for the information of honourable members the Commonwealth Teaching Service annual report for 1 973. 
As far as the 3 commissions are concerned- that is, the Schools Commission, the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education- we are dropping the word 'Australian' because it is not necessary. It adds a mouthful. They are not bodies which are in juxtaposition with similar State bodies, which would have required in the past the use of the word 'Commonwealth' instead of the word 'State' or the word 'Australian' instead of the word 'Queensland'. It is simply the 'Universities 
Commission'. It is analogous to the United Kingdom, which does not keep on talking about the 'British Universities Commission' or the 'British Schools Commission', if there is one there. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
My respect for Lady Harrison obliges me to join in the tributes to the late  Sir Eric  Harrison. I agree with the Leader of the Australian Country Party that  Sir Eric  Harrison was a man for opposition. It always appeared to me that he enjoyed opposition very much more than he enjoyed government. I was not quite sure whether he took government in the sense of policy statements very seriously, because he had been in Parliament for a long while, he had been through the Depression. I think he had seen every party in the Parliament reverse its position and he once commented to me on this. Although he often pronounced very confidently on policy, I do not think he always took it seriously. But what he did take seriously was Parliament itself. I think he had a tremendous respect for the institution, a tremendous respect for its significance. If 1949 was a vintage year that brought a particular quality of thinking into Parliament, quite definitely 1931 was another one. He belonged to the change in the Parliament which took place during the Depression and he dated back to that period. He had a very great respect for the late Jim Scullin, a former Prime Minister who was still in the Parliament when I was first elected. I always found Eric Harrison a seemingly tough opponent, but in fact a very warm-hearted and courteous man in personal dealings and it is impossible to remember him with other than affection. I do not think that anything he said in criticism was either intended to be or was hurtful. I believe he was a man who played the game of politics completely and singularly without venom and that was something that was conveyed to one even if he was criticising your position. It is a very great gift and it is one that he had. 
Pursuant to section 5 of the States Grants (Technical Training) Act 1971-1973, I present for the information of honourable members a statement of payments authorised under the Act during the financial year 1 972-73. 
in reply- I would like to answer some of the points raised in this debate. Actually, this debate has ranged very far beyond the question of the structure of the Australian Universities Commission. It has brought in matters like student housing and university standards, which, while I find tempting to answer and to which I will make some passing reference, are not actually germane to the Bill. However, I want to answer one or two of the points that definitely relate to the Bill. Really, the criticism of the major Opposition spokesman on this matter was concentrated on the definition of a university in the legislation. It states: 
The Minister may, by writing under his hand, direct that this Act shall apply to an institution or proposed institution that he is satisfied is to be constituted as a university within Australia by a law of Australia, a State or an internal Territory. 
In other words, I cannot by instrument in writing under my hand raise to the status of a university those sorts of bodies concerning which I am receiving a great deal of pressure at the present time. These bodies are awarding degrees through the post. The change in definition has been caused by a self-styled university with very questionable standards. It was issuing a degree which would not be accepted by any Australian university or by the Australian Public Service. People were being deceived into paying money to get degrees. It has to be made perfectly clear that the Australian Universities Commission at no time accepted this body as being a university. The definition of a university appears to have confused the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  who suggested that a university could not be established by private initiative because of this law. 
There are 7 governments to make laws- not my Government's laws, assuming I stay in government, nor those of my successor when I do not. The States can constitute a university, a body which they do not finance. I invite the honourable gentleman to turn his memory back a few years to when it was proposed by the Catholic Church in New South Wales to establish a university. The Catholic Church approached the Government of New South Wales to legislate that that university had university status, that it was accepted as a university and that its degrees would be recognised. Assuming it had a medical faculty, the State would have to recognise its medical degrees to allow people to practice. The same principle applies in all the degrees that such a university would award. Even if it were established by a private initiative it would be recognised by the Crown. 
That is really the story of all English universities. The motto of Oxford University- 'Dominus Illuminatio Mea' or 'God is My Light'- reveals its theological origin, but the monarchy always established colleges in which students could reside and underwrote them financially, and wealthy people endowed them. I think that the honourable member for Bradfield was giving us a pipe dream when he spoke about the private establishment of universities. 
I date back to the original Interim Council of the Australian National University and also in this Parliament to the original Act. The Chifley Government, in what appeared to be a princely gesture, provided that 350,000 a year would be the minimum grant to the Australian National University. I thought that that was pretty good because the University of Western Australia when I attended it cost 20,000 a year to run. If honourable gentlemen look at page 1888 of Hansard they will see that this year the Australian National University cost a cool $50,656,000. If one looks at the growth of expenditure on the Australian National University one does not have the complicating factor of the States making grants to it. One has a strict line of comparison of like with like- one institution financing it. Generally speaking, that is the whole trend. 
I want to refer to student accommodation. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has become a convinced socialist as far as student housing is concerned. He says that under benefits to students the Commonwealth Goverment is to provide houses for students all over the Australian nation. I presume that he means the Australian Government. He will be giving the universities an appalling problem if they are to become housing commissions for houses scattered all over the cities where they are and if the onus for the administration of all those houses falls on the vice-chancellor. I suggest that if there is to be public provision of housing it would have to be by the Australian Government. I do not rule out that possibility. This is a matter that the Universities Commission and the Commission of Colleges of Advanced Education need to look at. 
But I also invite the house to look at the question of student fads- fads about where they want to live and where they do not. Remember that when we are talking about tertiary students we are talking about the most privileged sector of young people in Australian education. If a person graduates at a university he has cost the taxpayer $64,000. If a person leaves school at 15 he has cost the taxpayer $4,000. The Leader of the Opposition is now suggesting the expenditure of some millions of dollars more on student housing, very nimbly saying that the vast proliferation of universities with their beautiful campuses was the work of the Liberal and Country Parties in the last 23 years but that the predicament of students in slums is the work of the Labor Government in the last 2 years. That is a lovely little touch that has nothing to do with reality. The predicament of students, if it is as bad as he suggests, would obviously be the development of a number of years. 
Honourable members can write me off as a conservative in this if they like, but I believe that the Universities Commission made a mistake in the last triennium in not continuing to develop at as great a rate as before halls of residence and university colleges. Let us take Armidale which is the centre where grievance concentrates most, where people are exploiting students with rentals of $90 a week and where four or five of them share one house in crowded conditions. I have received representations from university colleges in Armidale which have been left half-empty- as they have been left half-empty they are moving towards a very serious financial position- that they should be subsidised financially. A couple of years ago University House was half-empty. The standard of accommodation for students at University House leaves any Oxford college for dead. I am not speaking about accommodation for dons. When the previous Government built University House- it began in our time but it was completed in your time- accommodation per student cost 6,000. That would be $12,000, and $12,000 back in 1954, so it would be a very great sum today. For a time the place was left halfempty. The fashion has gone back again and I understand that it is full. Up in Armidale one finds that quite fine residential colleges are left half-empty. 
Of course, from the same area comes a demand for 2 beautiful libraries to be built- one for the teachers college, which must not affiliate with the university, and one for the university, which has 3 times as many teacher-trainees as the teachers college. In this town with a population of about 15,000 apparently we are to spend $4m or so on a couple of libraries. I do not want to satirise the position but really in the Australian educational spectrum there are other urgent needs. I want the Universities Commission to look genuinely at student needs. I am not certain that it can turn itself into a major housing commission merely because, as the Leader of the Opposition informs us, there is a new student life style and they do not wish to live in halls of residence. However, the point about the definition is that it does not give me capricious powers to ignore private initiatives that are recognised by the States should they become universities. It does not give me the power to recognise in the States what the States would not recognise as universities, about which they have not legislated and declared to be universities. I think it has rather the opposite meaning of what was suggested. 
The honourable member for Bradfield spoke about some kind of hostility to part-time students. The number of part-time students is not declining in either the universities or the colleges of advanced education, but if there is a faster growth in the number of full-time students I think it is because our student allowances are encouraging people more to be full-time students. Let me restrict myself to the universities. In 1964 there were 42,087 full-time students at universities. This year there are 86,200. In 1964 the total number of part-time and external students was 29,000. This year the estimate is 41,560. I imagine that any sort of development of an open university with a reinforcement of external studies with all sorts of modern techniques and a federation of universities to do this sort of work- I do not want to anticipate the report but that is a possibility- obviously would be a method of encouraging this sort of student. The whole field of tertiary education is expanding very rapidly. 
If I were to say something about standards I would talk about the celebrated case of what would now be called a college of advanced education and what was once called an institute of technology going through the roof and becoming a university. That does not worry me in particular. My impression is that the major colleges of advanced education are leaning over backwards to prove that their degrees are superior to university degrees in the fields in which they award them. They are not awarding doctorates of philosophy and so on, I think that they are imposing very high standards. I certainly think that that is true of, for instance, the degrees awarded by the Western Australian and South Australian Institutes of Technology. I do not think that there has been a compromising on excellence. I cannot follow the honourable gentleman in this debate, but I would like to present to him an analysis of the argument that was advanced in the 'Bulletin' about the high failure rate among Australian students in comparison with students in the United Kingdom. He would find that the comparisons are invalid for very many reasons. He would also find the analysis quite interesting. 
I want to say that we agreed- one honourable gentleman was kind enough to quote my speech in this respect- with the previous Government's establishment of the Universities Commission as an objective advisory body which would look into the problems of universities, examine them and report upon them in a public document that would become advice to the Government, and if the Government rejected that advice the public, in particular, could compare the reasons advanced by the Universities Commission with the Government's reasons. In fact we were so impressed by that procedure that we believed in its extension into other fields, as, for instance, with respect to the Schools Commission. There is no attempt to get round the Universities Commission. 
To those people who suggest that we want to direct a university I say that when an archbishop writes to me about student pornography I am glad to be able to say that the universities are autonomous bodies and that it is therefore a matter for them, and that when students are indignant because the vice-chancellor has called the police on to the campus to deal with the latest sitdown I am glad to be able to say that I am not going to intervene against the vice-chancellor as universities are autonomous institutions and they have to solve those problems and their relations with their students in their own context. Of course, if students go round smashing buildings it becomes a matter of public order. But in the States and in the Australian Capital Territory the taking of the initiative in the summoning of any police has always been with the university authorities themselves. I do not want to discuss these matters beyond saying that I doubt whether the trend of governments is to want to interfere. Who wants to put his hand on a porcupine in relation to some of these problems? 
The interference that might be feared would be if universities and colleges of advanced education were to be denied the money that would enable them to carry on. The Universities Commission discusses with the universities what they propose as courses and, if it regards them as being valid areas of study in demand, it recommends that they be funded. I should be very happy if the millionaires who used to endow American education could be found in Australian to pour vast sums of money into universities. 
I do not think that they have been conspicuous in the making of grants to universities in Australia ever since the advent of modern taxation. I happened to go to a university which was established really by the endowments of  Sir Winthrop  Hackett, but he lived in the days before modern taxation. I do not know whether the present Government is being accused of raising the level of taxation, which it has not done; but I do not think that taxation, even at the level it was the day the previous Liberal-Country Party Government fell, would produce vast sums of money from private individuals to universities. Bequests are made and sometimes they are quite significant; but what sort of bequest would it have to be to enable the running of the Australian National University at a cost of $50m a year? That would be impossible. I am afraid that the idea of governments not financing universities is a dream. What I think we have to do to meet the requirements of the honourable member for Bradfield, which are valid ones, is to have an independent body like the Universities Commission publicly advising and studying the problems of universities, and otherwise to leave them as autonomous bodies. 
I hope that the universities will always be devoted to excellence. That is the purpose of a university. There must be the excellence of study in a university to produce the excellence of research workers or the excellence of scholars, even if it is in something that people do not regard as being very practical. There must be that excellence if they are to be repositories of the best in human thought. I wish that they fully estimated themselves in that way. My complaint about university students is not that they overestimate themselves but that they underestimate themselves. The community is really looking to them for first-class thinking about all sons of problems in the community. I think even of the Aboriginal problem. It is rather depressing if what one gets from where one expects excellence of analysis is only a repetition of slogans. But I do not want to get on to that subject. I believe in universities as places of excellence of study and I think that our provision for them in the Budget at least set free to do the job the people who should be able to carry that through. The Universities Commission is being strengthened by this legislation to help it to do its job. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Title). 
I can direct that this Act applies only to what is a university if it is a university constituted within Australia by a law of Australia, a State or an internal Territory. I gather that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  got sidetracked on to the Katherine Agricultural College and what he was trying to ask me was whether an internal Territory could establish a university; that is, whether the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory could do so. This certainly leaves the way clear whereby if in the future some territorial authority established a university I could acknowledge it as a university. The real point seems to me to be that universities have always been an Act of the Crown, either through what honourable gentlemen opposite prefer to call the Commonwealth, a State or through the Legislative Assembly of a Territory. 
I am sorry that I am totally unaware of having received any pressure from the member for Katherine that the Agricultural College should be at Katherine. It would be a wicked thing if it were pressure that determined its location at Katherine. I believe that several committees which have examined this proposal decided that Katherine was the ideal place for this type of institution. It will be in close proximity, for instance, to a Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation agricultural institution which will be of great assistance to this institution in the future. However I do not want to be sidetracked. Several committees in the Northern Territory which have reported have had a crossbearing on that location. I am not deriding the local member but I am not going to say that it is due to his pressure that Katherine has been selected. I would say it is due to a study by a great many people. The decision was unanimously supported by the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the following tables. 
In providing this information I believe it is essential to have some understanding of the respective schemes to avoid the possibility of drawing invalid conclusions. A brief explanation of the basis for the allocation of funds is contained in the Appendix to this answer. I would also point out to the honourable member that the provisions of the Science and Libraries Programs do not apply to the Territories of the Commonwealth where science and library facilities in schools are provided under different arrangements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were discussions between members of the Executive of the NSW Playgroup Association and officers of the Department of Education on 2 August 1 974. These discussions were suggested by me in my reply to an earlier letter from the NSW Playgroup Association. At these discussions a statement setting out assistance proposals was submitted. 
(a) The proposals put forward at that meeting sought financial assistance (i) to establish and operate a central and some regional resource centres, (ii) to cover the cost of some publications, (iii) to employ playgroup advisers, (iv) to employ playgroup leaders to start groups in needy areas, (v) to develop a parent education program, and (vi) to develop new playgroups. The estimated cost of the assistance sought on the basis of a minimal capital outlay was $26,363 initial capital and $209,230 per annum for recurrent costs. 
No aid has been given to the NSW Playgroup Association by the Australian Government. However, playgroups are seen as making an important contribution towards the Government's policy objective of integrated and comprehensive early childhood services. Playgroups are specifically referred to in the Terms of Reference for the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission. These Terms of Reference are included in the statement tabled by the Honourable Lionel Bowen in the House of Representatives on 19September 1974. 
Department of Customs and Excise: Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No. 279) 
The answer to the right honourable member's questions is as follows: 
The cost of professional fees varies from one project to another depending on such factors as- 
the types of professional people involved, e.g. Architects, Structural Engineers, Surveyors and Quantity Surveyors, 
the level of contract price for the project, 
the State in which the Centre is to be established, Nevertheless, the average cost of professional fees for a child care centre is about 8 per cent of the contract price. 
The cost of land for centres varies considerably depending upon how it is obtained, e.g. the land may be provided free, it may be leased on a long term basis or it may have to be purchased. In the first two situations, there may not be any capital cost. Where land is purchased, the price varies according to a number of factors, e.g. whether it is in an inner-city area where land is at a premium. Where there has been a charge for land, the cost normally varies from about $20,000 to $40,000 per centre, although some actual costs range above and below these amounts. 
The level of equipment grants for new centres varies depending upon such factors as the number and age range of children to be catered for. In a centre for 60 children aged 2-5 years, equipment grants under the Child Care Act 1972 would normally be about $9,000. 
There is no information available on the annual cost of rental of a 60 child centre. The Child Care Act 1972 does not provide for subsidy in respect of rents. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)-(2) Numbers of Students entering the First Year of Medical Schools in, and numbers graduating from, Australian Universities 1959-1973 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the right honourable member with regard to the names of those centres approved for recurrent grant subsidies, their location and how much each centre receives is set out hereunder. The recurrent grant subsidy as provided for in the Child Care Act is paid on a quarterly basis. The amounts shown in the table are in respect of the January-March 1974 quarter. As provided for in the Child Care Act, the recurrent grant subsidy is paid in respect of certain qualified staff and special need children as defined in the Act. The subsidies vary from quarter to quarter as a result of staff turnover, changes in award rates, fluctuations in attendance patterns including those of children in special need. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to my reply to question number 1015 for an answer to this question. 
Jerramungup Pre-school Centre  (Question No. 1020) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) No decision has been made. This matter was referred to me under cover of a letter dated 10 September 1974 from  Mr Chappell, Chairman,  Southern Region Social Development Board. 
The responsibility for the Government's childhood services program is being transferred to the Honourable Lionel Bowen as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister. These new arrangements were set out in a statement tabled in the House of Representatives by  Mr Bowen  on 1 9 September. 

 Mr Chappell 's letter will be passed to the Honourable Lionel Bowen so that this request may be considered in the context of the new arrangements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3). I refer the honourable member to my reply to question number 10 15 for an answer to this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to my reply to question number 10 1 5 for an answer to this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to my reply to question number 1 0 1 5 for an answer to this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3). I refer the honourable member to my reply to question number 10 1 5 for an answer to this question. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following tables provide information relating to research grants, in each of the last 3 financial years, which have been provided from moneys appropriated to my Department or to authorities under my control. 
The details relating to the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education are confined to research undertaken or commissioned by the authorities themselves. Grants from these authorities to the States for unspecified research activities in all fields, whether educational in nature or not, have been excluded from the tables as has the Department's annual grant in aid made to the Australian Council for Educational Research. 
There was no expenditure on recognisable research projects by the Schools Commission, or the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education in the period in question. However, each of these bodies has made provision for funding such projects in the 1 974-75 financial year. 
-(Fremantle-Minister for Education)- For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared for the Department of Education entitled: 'Recommendations Concerning Bilingual Education in the Northern Territory'. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the States Grants (Pre-School Teachers Colleges) Act 1968-1972, I present a statement of payments authorised under the Act during the financial year 1973-74 and projects in relation to which the payments have been authorised. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-73 I present a statement of payments authorised under the Act during the financial year 1973-74 and projects in relation to which the payments have been authorised. 
I shall draw the attention of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  to the case of  Mr Lloyd  which was raised by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  a few moments ago. The honourable member indicated that  Mr Lloyd  has run into difficulties presumably because of the structure or regulations of the Defence Service Homes Act in relation to land values of the property on which he wants to build a home. 
I am grateful to the honourable gentleman for drawing my attention to the Waite Institute. I am not aware yet of any representations from either the Waite Institute or the University of Adelaide in respect of the matter which the honourable member raised. But I will take the opportunity tomorrow morning to draw this matter to the attention of Professor Karmel and the Australian Universities Commission. From what the honourable gentleman said I gather that the endowments of the Waite Institute are losing value. I can certainly believe that any body which has existed on endowments would be experiencing that. That happened with the Hackett bequest to the University of Western Australia long ago. 
The honourable member also said that the Waite Institute was receiving the impact of rising costs. I shall be introducing legislation tomorrow to add $51m to university grants because of the impact of rising costs on them. The honourable member also indicated the pro rata share that the Waite Institute gets according to enrolments as compared with enrolments of the University of Adelaide. If the case outlined by the honourable member is the position I could well understand that the Institute would be suffering deterioration because the ordinary enrolments of universities can of course increase very rapidly but the enrolments at a research institute would not be subject to the same expansion, although research is very expensive. The honourable member mentioned that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has a relationship with the Waite Institute. I am not the Minister for Education and Science, which is the old terminology. The Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  is in charge of the CSIRO and I shall certainly draw his attention to what the honourable gentleman has said. 
-Yes, but it may affect the finances of the Waite Institute and it is clearly not a matter which affects me alone. Therefore I must consult with the Minister. I shall do my very best to inquire urgently into this matter. I agree with what the honourable gentleman has said about the quality and the work of the Institute and if the Institute is suffering a serious threat this would very serious for the nation. I shall inquire into this matter and be in touch with the honourable gentleman. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to make adjustments to the approved triennial programs of universities to take account of cost variations. It is intended to preserve the original triennial programs of the universities and to ensure that they are not prevented from completing these approved programs as a result of variations in costs. Provision has been made in the legislation for cost variations for both building and recurrent expenditures by universities. The Government intends to propose amendments to the principal Act during each Budget session to take account of variations in costs using indexes constructed by the Universities Commission. These indexes will be based on actual changes in costs arising from such things as movements in wages and salaries, costs of non-salary items and building construction costs. 
Honourable members will recall that earlier in the session an amending Bill to the States Grants (Universities) Act 1972-1973 was enacted which included provision for grants for teaching and research in community practice, social work and in special education at a number of universities. The present Bill provides for similar grants to additional universities. In accordance with established practice, adjustments have been made to salaries payable to academic staff at universities arising from the national wage case decision in May 1974. New rates of salaries resulting from this judgment and which provide a basis for funding this part of university expenditures are incorporated in the principal Act by this Bill. 
Because of the increasing volume of matters of detail before the Commission, especially in relation to building and equipment programs and the desirability of quick decisions on them, the Government has decided that there should be provision for a power of delegation from the 
Commission to its full-time members to enable administrative procedures arising from the legislation to be expedited. The Bill provides for the necessary legislative authority for delegation of the Commission's powers. The total additional cost to the Australian Government in providing for cost variations in the universities' programs is approximately $51m. Earmarked funds for teaching and research in community practice and the other special activities which I have already mentioned are provided in addition to this amount to the extent of $940,000. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
in reply- I seek leave to table for the information of the House, since it was referred to by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  the Schools Commission's questionnaire to non-government schools of October 1974, the letter which accompanied it from the Schools Commission, the explanatory notes which accompanied it from the Schools Commission, and an instruction concerning confidentiality which I have sent to the Schools Commission today. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1,887. 
Of these 1,887 students: 
1,161 live at home; 
726 board away from home. 
Procedures have been developed by my Department for the administration of the Aboriginal Secondary Grants Scheme to ensure as far as possible that the allowances payable are used for their intended purposes. 
Education Officers of my Department visit schools which have grant holders enrolled in order to maintain contact both with students and with school principals and teachers. Supervising school staff are kept informed of the requirements expected of grant holders to satisfy the payment of allowances under the Scheme. Where problems occur, students and parents are counselled concerning their responsibilities and obligations. In the very rare cases where counselling fails, provision exists for the transfer of payment of the textbook and uniform allowance to someone other than the parent. 
My Departmental officers are assisted in the administration of the scheme through contacts developed and maintained with officers both of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and State Departments who work with Aboriginal communities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information collected by my Department about the numbers of students receiving grants under the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme covers total numbers for the periods 1 January to 30 June and1 July to 3 1 December each year. During the former period in 1974, 187 students in Western Australia received grants under the Aboriginal Study Grants Scheme. 
The educational institutions at which these students were enrolled are as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3)I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question number 964 on the 1973 Notice Paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, pages 1714-1715) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which departments are engaged with other departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developmentsthis is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
-(Fremantle-Minister for Education)- For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Scholarships Board for 1973. 
For the information of honourable members I present schedules showing the position, as at 18 November 1974, for programs under the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-1973 including amendments proposed by the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1974 which is currently in course of passage through the Parliament. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The major purposes of this Bill are to provide a program of financial assistance for seven nongovernment teachers colleges for 1974 and 1975, and to provide for variations in both capital and recurrent costs for all colleges of advanced education which were not allowed for when the programs for the 1973-75 triennium were adopted. In 1973 the Government amended the States Grants (Advanced Education) Act to give effect to the decision that former State government teachers colleges as they moved towards autonomy would be funded by the Australian Government as colleges of advanced education. Consistent with the policy that these teachers colleges should be so funded, the Commission on Advanced Education was asked to report on the assistance to be provided for approved nongovernment teachers colleges. The Commission's report was tabled on 17 July 1974. The recommendations have been accepted by the Government and this Bill gives legislative effect to this decision which involves a commitment of up to $6,543,820 in the years 1974 and 1975. This undertaking of the Prime Minister has been met this year with the extension of student allowances and recurrent funds in the nongovernment teacher education area. 
In accordance with the Government's decision of 23 August 1974 the Bill also provides funds for recurrent expenditure of up to $230,000 for the establishment of recreation leadership courses at colleges of advanced education. The Bill also seeks the transfer of $lm of capital funds from section 10 to section 9 of the principal Act. This allows for additional funds to be provided for student residences and affiliated colleges in country areas, and better reflects the demand made for funds under these sections. It is a growing concern of the Government to adapt tertiary education and technical and further education to the needs of country people and to do this the cost of residential accommodation must increasingly be met. This is a first step. The Government intends to propose amendments to the principal Act during each Budget session to take account of variations in costs. The indices used by the Universities Commission will also be used by the Commission on Advanced Education to calculate cost variations for the college system. 
Honourable members will recall that this Government has provided assistance for courses in dental therapy at the Western Australian Institute of Technology, social work at the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education, social work and physical education at the Preston Institute of Technology and physical education at the Footscray Institute of Technology in Victoria. Grants have also been provided for courses in special education and for the preparation of preschool teachers. The Bill provides for variations in these specified grants to allow for increases in costs. Additional grants to cover increases in running costs are also provided for student residences and affiliated colleges. In accordance with established government policy, following the national wage case decision of May 1974 adjustments have been made to salaries payable to academic staff at colleges of advanced education. Amounts to cover these increases have been provided in this Bill. This amendment provides an additional $47m in the 1 973-75 triennium for colleges of advanced education and non-government teachers colleges. I wish the Bill a speedy passage through the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill 1974 is to provide funds for post-school technical and further education in the States in accordance with the general program of development recommended by the Committee on Technical and Further Education. The Committee was established under the chairmanship of  Mr Myer  Kangan, in April 1973, to advise on the development of technical and further education and to make recommendations on the financial assistance to be provided to government institutions providing technical and further education. The Committee reported to the Government in April 1974 and its report was immediately tabled. 
The Prime Minister in his policy speech earlier this year referred to the Committee's report. He stated that 'we are determined that technical education shall cease to be the Cinderella of Australian education'. He went on to say that the reports which the Government had commissioned will provide an effective and expert basis for bold new initiatives to allow technical skills to find their proper and honoured place in a changing society. The Bill which I am introducing is an expression of our determination to give technical education that place. The Government has endorsed the approach adopted in the Kangan report of a national program to upgrade technical and further education, with the Australian Government providing funds additional to a maintained effort by the States. We do not wish to see technical and further education defined in any narrow way, related only to skills required by industry. The definition of technical and further education in the Bill covers the broad range of post-school education, including courses which have a vocational bias in order to meet occupational requirements and also courses which are not necessarily vocational but are designed to meet community needs. The Bill is therefore aimed at meeting national needs for an adequately educated and skilled workforce as well as providing continuing education for the adult population. 
The scope and status of non-government institutions in the technical and further education field are so diverse that a good deal of consideration needs to be given to the nature of the assistance they might receive. The needs of these institutions, of which two of the more widely known are the Workers Educational Association and the Victorian Council of Adult Education, are, with one exception, not being taken into account by the Bill. The question of support for them will be the subject of a report by the proposed Technical and Further Education Commission and submissions from voluntary bodies not operated for profit have already been sought. 
There is one non-government institution which for special reasons is deemed by the Bill to be a government instrumentality so that it may continue to receive grants to offset the student fees which the Government has undertaken to meet. This institution is the College of Nursing, Australia. The college, a private organisation, provides some sub-tertiary courses in nursing practice and administration as well as tertiary courses. Both of these groups of courses have been receiving fees reimbursement grants and the tertiary courses are continuing to do so under arrangements for colleges of advanced education. So that the sub-tertiary courses can continue to receive reimbursement grants, the college is being treated as a State instrumentality and we will arrange with the States for part of the recurrent grants they receive to be paid to the college. 
The report of the Committee on Technical and Further Education recommended that grants totalling nearly $ 105m be provided to the States over the 18-month period 1 July 1974 to 31 December 1975. The total appropriation under the Bill is $89m spread over the 2-year period 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1976. A further $7.2m, appropriated under previous technical training legislation and unspent at 30 June last, is also available for expenditure. Together with the $3.5m to be available to the Australian Capital Territory and $250,000 provided for research, the total amount which we have set aside for technical and further education over the 2 years is $100m. This sum does not take account of a further $ 18.8m which has been calculated as necessary for additional fees reimbursement. I shall refer to this point later. 
If a single justification were needed for the level of expenditure we propose, it is given by the fact that the 1971 census recorded that some 67 per cent of men and some 80 per cent of women in the workforce claimed no formally recognised post-school qualification of any kind. While the provision of grants for training within industry, which is the province of my colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  was excluded from the Kangan Committee's terms of reference, it will be recognised that the program we are putting forward will be of some consequence in providing the buildings, the equipment and the trained staff to cater for those people who undertake courses of training or re-training at technical colleges under the national employment and training scheme. 
While our proposed contribution to technical and further education is considerable, I would like to acknowledge the concern which has been expressed by the States regarding the adequacy of the provision for general recurrent grants within the total sums. The States refer to their loss of revenue resulting from the abolition of student fees, the increased enrolment in their technical colleges and the higher running costs. The Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education has given me its advice on this matter and I expect to be able to make a statement shortly. With the concurrence of honourable members, I shall have incorporated in Hansard a table summarising the various grants to the States which are to be appropriated, as set out in the Schedules to the Bill. 
The answer to the right honourable member 's question is as follows:  (.1) The following data shows total enrolments in selected Phi.D. degree courses by university for the years 1970-74. Details of Ph.D. degree enrolments by course were not collected in years prior to 1 970. . 
Figures projecting Ph.D. enrolments over the next five years are not available insufficient detail to answer the question. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 41 (Hansard, 3 October 1974, pages 2233-2239) in which he provided details of the Australian Education Council and its Standing Committee. 

 - Mr Speaker, I was abroad when this matter was resolved, but I do welcome it. It is one of the functions of the Schools Commission to make recommendations in its reports to the Government on all forms of education for the handicapped. Honourable members will recollect that the Karmel Committee recommended $43m for this purpose, which the Government has appropriated, and a further $ 13m came in other forms for such things as the training of teachers of the handicapped, so that the program is about $56m all up. I understand that what the Leader of the Opposition was particularly concerned about were the specific learning difficulties to which his attention had been drawn by the organisation known as SPELD. It will be the duty, I presume, of the Schools Commission to give to the Parliamentary Committee evidence that it has already accumulated on this subject. I think it is not a bad thing that a parliamentary committee is to look at this matter. I hardly think that it will be possible for the Committee to be partisan on a question of specific learning difficulties and I do not think that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  who as a teacher has been concerned about children with disabilities, would exercise his chairmanship of the Committee with anything other than compassion and objectivity, the clashes in the House notwithstanding. 
A number of interesting parliamentary committees have inquired into the field of education. A Senate committee which inquired into the education of the handicapped several years ago produced an extremely valuable report which I think can still be used as a guideline. There are great numbers of parents concerned about the problem of specific learning difficulties. I would regard myself as indebted to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  on this question for one very good reason: I think that the teaching profession in Australia, especially at primary level, very largely flies blind. Teachers do not know whether children coming into their schools come from battered homes, whether they are brain damaged or whether they have various forms of disability. Teachers are very largely in the position that a doctor would be in if he did not have the benefit of X-rays, nurses and ancillary forms of service. This is specifically the case in regard to specific learning difficulties which seem to be at the basis in some cases of the mystery of why so many children cannot learn to read. There may be other explanations of their misfortune in schooling but we do not know enough about this whole subject. If this Parliamentary Committee which has been suggested by the Leader of the Opposition can crystallise around Australia all the strands of information, opinion and expertise that have been suddenly developed in the last four or five years it can be an extremely creative committee. I thank the Leader of the Opposition for having suggested it. As I have said, this is the first chance that I have had to comment on the proposal since returning from a UNESCO conference overseas. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, very seriously. I wondered how quickly the stress of the Queensland elections would lead to a complete misrepresentation of the relationship between myself and  Sir Alan  Fletcher. But now it has occurred. I got a sense of warning that even  Sir Alan  Fletcher might become a casualty of the elections when I received a telegram - 
The honourable gentleman has suggested that requests have come from Queensland - 
I merely want to make the point that the money was sent at the time he asked for it. 
Pursuant to section 7d of the States 
Grants (Advanced Education) Act 1972-1973, 1 present a statement of approvals given during 1974 in respect of the grant for special education in colleges of advanced education. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report by the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education on supplementary funds for programs administered by that Committee. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The Cabinet has not yet had time to consider this recommendation. But every other commission, the Schools Commission, the Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education, has been given the entitlement- as measures going through the House this week will have demonstrated to honourable members- to adjust grants according to the changed purchasing power of money. The honourable gentleman has specified New South Wales. I invite the honourable member's attention to the fact that $46m was granted by the Commonwealth to the States during the last 3 financial years, and $7.2m of that money was unspent. They were therefore spending at about the rate of $ 1 3m a year. If the honourable gentleman really studies this measure he will find that all up, including the $7.2m carried over, $53m of capital will have been made available in 2 years. So the picture of the States being embarrassed because they have not enough money for capital is completely contrary to the experience of the last 3 years. This represents a doubling- at about the rate of $26. 5m a year- of the capital that is available to them. If in point of fact the amount proves insufficient it will be quite competent for the Richardson Committee or the permanent Commission on Technical and Further Education to make recommendations to the Australian Government to adjust grants accordingly. No Bill that we bring in in this way is a final statement, as the honourable gentleman will be aware from all the other legislation that has passed through this week. 
I refer to schedule 3 and move: 
Omit the table, insert the following table: 

<graphic href="092131197412026_61_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amendment I have moved seeks to provide an additional $ 18.82m to the States as general recurrent grants for technical and further education. In my second reading speech on the Bill, I mentioned the concern expressed by the States regarding the adequacy of the sums we were providing to offset their loss of revenue resulting from the abolition of student fees in technical institutions. The Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education has reported to me that a further $ 18.82m is necessary to compensate them. The Government has made a commitment to abolish fees in technical colleges. As a corollary to this undertaking, it must see that the States are not disadvantaged. With the concurrence of honourable members, I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table which sets out the additional amounts we are proposing to make available to each State in each of the 2 years concerned. 

<graphic href="092131197412026_61_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. These amounts are included in the revised general purpose recurrent grants which my amendment proposes. I seek the agreement of the House to the amendment. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was very alluring in suggesting that I should accept the deletion of this paragraph. He suggested also that the paragraph is severable from other clauses of the Bill. I do not think that his contention is correct. He gave me the rounds of the kitchen earlier for a clause of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill which was practically lifted holus bolus from the States Grants (Schools) Bill which passed through the House before the Federal election of 1972 and received royal assent on 30 November 1972, almost a minute to midnight in the career of the late Government. The clause which he found exceptionally objectionable in the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill he found exceptionally acceptable when the previous Government included it in the States Grants (Schools) Bill on November 1 972. 
However, speaking to the amendment which is before the Committee, the purpose of the condition which is set out in this clause which requires the States to supply statistical and other information is to obtain information on the nature of the expenditure made by the States. It is to be noted that under clause 12 recurrent grants are to be paid to the States as of right. That is, I as the Minister am not empowered to withhold recurrent grants. The honourable gentleman now says that I am not entitled to any information but I can get it as a matter of courtesy. The information to be provided under paragraph (c) of clause 13 is required for the Minister's annual report to Parliament, which in turn is required by clause 30. So clause 13 (c) is related to another clause of the Bill, and I think that the annual report to Parliament is an obligation which no-one would want to see eliminated. The clause closely follows that contained in the States 
Grants (Schools) Act 1972- an Act of the previous Government- which requires in section 14 ( 1) (b) (iii) non-government schools to provide information to the Minister within 6 months of receiving payment. 
The honourable member for Moreton can stand here and weave arguments against these clauses. The Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education has on it 3 major figures from the State administrations- 3 State directors of technical education. The idea that we in any of our committees or commissions have ignored the States, trampling States' rights, is quite erroneous. There is only one matter that the State Ministers have taken up with me in relation to this measure, and that is the need for extra funding for fees in technical colleges. This Bill is part of a complex. When I move the amendment later which adds $ 18.82m to the amount already allocated, this Bill will provide about $108m. With it is $7 .2m carried over as unspent sums of money from previous technical grants to the States and $3.Sm made available through the National Capital Development Commission to the Canberra Technical College, which serves southern New South Wales and northern Victoria to a very considerable extent, as do all educational institutions of a tertiary character in the Australian Capital Territory. So it is part of a complex of about $ 1 1 9m. 
It is competent for the Committee periodically to make recommendations to me as to how the States are getting on with this whole problem. There may be a need for extra funding; there may be a need for a change in arrangements, and the sort of information which is given here is no onerous burden placed upon the States. It ought to be an automatic part of their administration. I think the honourable gentleman, in finding plots in a repetition of his own legislation, is really going too far. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The right honourable member will appreciate that I am not in a position to reply to him with respect to the whole range of Government initiatives on multi-purpose centres. However, as far as my own area of responsibility is concerned, I can say that there have been no special Australian Government capital grants in the field of education to establish such centres. In saying that I am assuming that the term 'multi-purpose' refers to a centre which provides capital facilities for a range of purposes involving more than one kind of community service; institutions such as schools, universities, colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges are primarily concerned with the provision of a single community service, namely education. 
I would want to stress, nevertheless, that the Australian Government, since taking office in December 1972, has been concerned in its education policy to encourage the development of opportunities for closer links between educational institutions and the community at large. In the area of primary and secondary education under Schools Commission programs this policy has been given particular emphasis. Under the General Buildings Program, two schools have been supported for projects which include multi-purpose halls, and similar projects are under consideration. I have announced 28 education centres to be funded by the Schools Commission under its Teacher Development Program which will enable teachers to initiate and control in their own premises activities directed towards the improvement of professional competence. These centres will be open to all were circulated: teachers and to the community and will provide a wide variety of activities and facilities to promote teacher development and community involvement. 
Aside from special grants funding, the Australian Government provides substantial, direct opportunities within its own education systems in the Australian Territories for community involvement in the educational process. Provision for community use of school facilities has been made in the planning and building of schools as pan of the capital works program in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and in the Australian Capital Territory significant emphasis has been given to community involvement through the guidelines being developed by the Interim Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority for the future operation of school boards for government primary and secondary schools. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969-1972 I present a statement of the payment of moneys made to each State under that Act as per capita grants in respect of each independent school during the 1973 calendar year. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Immigration (Education) Act 1971-1973 I present the Annual Report on Migrant Education for the year ended 30 June 1 974. 
Pursuant to the relevant section of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-1973 I present a statement of the payment of moneys made to each State under that Act as grants for recurrent expenditure during the 1973 calendar year. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Miss Calder's project aims to develop a measure, suitable for use by teachers, for the identification and assessment of the degree of handicap in relation to the young child 's perceptual motor development. The test is intended not only for use as a diagnostic device but also to assist in the selection of appropriate remedial programs for the individual child. 

 Mr Doherty has conducted prior research which suggests that the phenomenon of the late development of certain of the cognitive skills in the visually handicapped child is associated with the child's inability to interact with the environment i.e. a time lag exists in the formation of intellectual structures. The current research proposes to develop broad based, structured programs of cognitive experiences which will assist the visually handicapped to overcome the intellectual lags. 
By tabulating the most frequent oral language sequences used by children of the  2&lt;A,  3VS,  4Yi, 5'A  and 6!? year old age groups,  Dr Hart  plans to produce a series of readers. The readers will employ these commonly used sequences in such a way that they convey to the child the same meanings that exist in their oral form. The programs will therefore provide a graded introduction to written English for children in their early school years which is based upon their oral language structures. It should be noted that  Dr Hart's  project concerns 'development of language programs . . .'not 'development of language problems . . .'. 
Professor Lamberton will examine the economics of information, in the context of the Australian education system, in terms of the varying policy changes which may result from the introduction of new educational technologies, viz. videotape, computers, etc.. and modifications in the disposition of old ones. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
2361 at31October 1974. 
54 per cent. 
Senior executive positions have been taken to include officers at or above the level of Education Officer, Class 2 or  Clerk Class 7. There are 76 women employed in this category. 
The 76 women referred to in part (3) represent 3.2 per cent of total departmental personnel. Women represent 23.5 per cent of officers employed in a senior executive/administrative capacity as defined above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A Grant of $45,000 is available to Scots College, Bellevue Hill, in the current financial year for science accommodation and will be paid upon receipt of advice from the college that construction has commenced prior to 30 June 1975. 
A grant of $51,000 was paid to Ascham School, Edgecliff in the financial year 1973/74 for science accommodation. 
A grant of $29,000 is available to the King's School, Parramatta, in the current financial year for science accommodation, and will be paid upon receipt of advice from the school that construction has commenced prior to 30 June 1975. 
A grant of up to $16,000 is available to Kambala Church of England School for Girls, Rose Bay in the current financial year for science accommodation and will be paid upon receipt of advice of the estimated cost of the project and that work has commenced prior to 30 June 1 975. 
A grant of $1 16,000 is available to Sacred Heart Convent, Rose Bay, in the current financial year for science accommodation and will be paid upon receipt of advice from the school that construction has commenced prior to 30 June 1975. 
The amount of the grant may in each case be subject to some readjustment on completion of the project and determination of final costs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the following tables. 
It should be noted that the tables refer only to Catholic and other non-government schools in each state. Information concerning the government school sector has been requested from several state governments but has not as yet been received. The information will be forwarded to the honourable member as soon as it is available. The figures in the tables have been arranged under the various States Grants (Science Laboratories) Acts. The tables have been compiled in this way as a laboratory unit may have been built or modified in one period but financial assistance given in a subsequent period. The table has been prepared on the basis of the date at which the first assistance was given to the school for each laboratory unit. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A grant of $48,000 was paid to St Joseph's College, Hunters Hill, N.S.W. in the financial year 1 973-74 for library accommodation. The project is currently under construction and final costs to the Government will be determined upon completion of the project. 
A grant of $21,885 was paid to Moriah War Memorial College, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W. in the financial year 1973-74 for library accommodation. Construction of the project has been completed and I have determined the total reasonable cost for the library building to be $25,167. The Government has accepted a commitment of $3,282 in recognition of the increased cost of completing the project. It is intended that this amount will be paid to the school during the 1975-76 financial year. 
A grant of $29,000 was paid to Ascham School, Edgecliff, N.S.W. in the financial year 1973-74 for library accommodation. The project has been satisfactorily completed and I have determined the total reasonable cost for the library building to be $43,696. As the net cost for construction is $43,656, slightly less than the determined reasonable cost, the school will not be eligible for any further grant. 
A grant of $50,000 was paid to Presbyterian Ladies College, Pymble, N.S.W. in the financial year 1 973-74 for library accommodation. 
A grant of $29,000 was paid to Kambala Church of England School, Rose Bay, N.S.W. in the financial year 1973-74 for library accommodation. The project is approaching completion and final costs are awaited to determine the total cost to the Government. 
A grant of $5,000 was paid to Timbertop School, 
Mansfield, Victoria in the financial year 1973-74 for library accommodation. The project is currently under construction and final costs to the Government will be determined upon completion of the project. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (1 1) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (House of Representatives Hansard, 4 December 1 974, page 4590). 
Department of the Special Minister of State: Publications  (Question No.  1588) 
-The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The right honourable member will appreciate that I can provide information only in respect of schools in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. 
In the Northern Territory pupils have, during 1974, participated in student exchange schemes under which students have moved into an Aboriginal community for a period of a week or a fortnight to work with and learn from the people of that community. 
Forty Grade 7 children (aged 12-13) of Larrakeyah Primary School, Darwin, spent two periods residing with the Tiwi people on Melville Island, where local people gave them instruction in basket weaving, carving and local culture. These visits were preceded by course work at school on the background and history of the Tiwi people and their culture. This scheme is planned to continue in 1975. 
A similar program was arranged for 24 students (aged 9-12) of Wagaman Primary School who spent two periods at Maningrida. 
Thirty students (aged 9-14) from Katherine Area School receive weekly instruction from an Aboriginal artist from Bamyili. Guest speakers from Aboriginal communities in Katherine and Bamyili also assist in the presentation of Social Science courses to pupils in Grades 8- 10. 
Further courses in Aboriginal culture, history and language have been planned at Alice Springs High School and Casuarina High School for 1 975. 
Within a number of areas of the school curriculum, there is scope and provision for interested teachers to present information on Aboriginal culture, history and languages. To assist in these activities, the Australian Government is actively involved in promoting the development of suitable well-researched materials on Aboriginal Studies for use by both Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal children. 
The Government has recently agreed to the establishment of the Curriculum Development Centre which will undertake and promote curriculum and materials development at the national level. The Interim Council of the Centre has accepted that Aboriginal Studies should be given high priority and as a first step the Queensland University Press has been commissioned to undertake a preliminary study for the preparation of an Aboriginal Studies teaching kit. 
Interim Commission on Consumer Standards: Consumer Groups (Question No. 1760) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) Closed circuit television equipment is not at present in use in high schools under my authority in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
My only information on the possession of such equipment by schools outside the Australian mainland territories comes from a recent survey of television equipment used in Australian schools, which was organised by my Department in conjunction with the Department of the Media. If schools with closed circuit television equipment are defined as those having a video camera, then of the 1632 high schools (schools with at least some secondary component) which replied to the survey, 277 ( 1 7 per cent) had video cameras in use in the school. The survey did not reveal whether the equipment was supplied or purchased from the schools' own finances, nor did it conduct a check on the usefulness of the equipment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Secondary Schools Libraries Program libraries are visited while under construction and, after completion while actually in use, by members of the Secondary Schools Libraries Committee. Following the final visit members submit to my Depanment a written report of the way in which the library is being used by the school. Visits are not continued after the Government's financial arrangements with a school are finalised. 
No. However my Department has made inquiries from the school which ascertained that, as a temporary measure, a small seminar room in the library is being used as accommodation. The information given to me suggests that this is a reasonable arrangement. The school has been unattended outside normal school hours. There has been serious trouble with vandalism and police have been called to the school on a number of occasions. A great deal of damage has been done. Recently an attempt was made to blow up the science laboratory at the school. 
A monastery near the school is under construction and the religious staff will move in on its completion. In the meantime, to protect school property, the Brothers are being accommodated in offices and small rooms within the school. My Department has been assured that the library services to pupils and teachers are not impaired by the temporary use of the small library seminar room. 
Australian Conservation Foundation: 'The Packaging Plague' (Question No. 1838) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (5) I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Special Minister of State in answer to question No. 1862 (Hansard S December 1974, pages 4841-4847). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication 'Schools 1973', Reference No. 13.5 and in particular the table: Grades in Government Schools: States, 1 973, for an answer to his question. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
If the right honourable member will specify from published material the particular programs in which he is interested I will endeavour to have additional detail prepared for him or direct his attention to the appropriate reports and other sources. The workload in providing the information is very substantial, and it would be helpful if an order of priority could be indicated. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of press releases issued by the Minister for Education are distributed by hand to the Press Gallery, and by mail from the Depanment of Education and the Schools Commission. 
The Depanment and Schools Commission maintain a mailing list of people and organisations that regularly receive copies of Ministerial press releases. This list includes media organisations, educational bodies and any other interested individuals or organisations who request to be placed on the mailing list. 
Normally about 800 copies are distributed. However, press releases which provide information on matters of particular interest, such as the various programs administered by the Schools Commission, often have a circulation of up to 2000. 
The production and distribution costs of press releases are not separately identifiable from general administrative costs. It is therefore not possible to give a precise answer to this part of the question. 
One officer is involved in distributing press releases. This task occupies approximately one fifth of the officer's time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While there may be some doubt as to the precise definition of a 'voluntary' organisation, in relation to the 1974-75 financial year, I received requests from the Technical Teachers Association of Australia, the Australian Parents Council, the Australian Music Examinations Board and the Australian College of Education for funds to establish and /or maintain a national secretariat 
The Australian Music Examinations Board has been granted $35,000 per annum for the two financial years 1974-75 and 1975-76 as support for the administrative costs of the Board's central secretariat The other requests have not been granted. The Government is continuing its contribution, commenced in earlier years to the costs of maintaining the national secretariats of the Australian Association of Adult Education ($17,000 per annum), the Australian Council of State School Organisations ($20,000 per annum ), and the Australian Pre-School Association ($40,000 per annum). 
If the honourable gentleman looks at chapter 9 and appendix E of the Karmel report he will see that the concept of disadvantaged schools really rests upon disadvantaged areas and underprivileged people. The analysis is based on the smallest census districts and on the information there. A whole series of criteria of socio-economic disadvantage of the area is set out. There tends to be a belief that if a school has a class in a hat room it is a disadvantaged school but that may occur in an affluent area and that is not the concept of disadvantage. Karmel in this biennium, 1974-75, concentrated, and invited the State governments and, in practice, the Catholic education authorities, to concentrate on the 10 per cent most disadvantaged areas and to recommend what action should be taken to turn the schools into an instrument of compensation. 
It is quite competent for parents in an area who can establish disadvantage which may have been overlooked and to make representations. In Western Australia, the State to which I presume the honourable member refers, the State Government nominates to me its 10 per cent most disadvantaged schools. I have to agree with its nominations. The State Government deploys its share of the $50m disadvantaged schools money in turning those State schools into an instrument of compensation. That list of schools could be amended but representations from parents would need to be made to the State Government. I would be perfectly flexible in this matter if the State Government amended its list. It could be quite important for it to do so this year, even if it did not expect action this year because the Schools Commission will be recommending for the next triennium. What Karmel conceived was that in the first biennium we should concentrate on the 10 per cent most disadvantaged schools. The recommendations of the Schools Commission for the next triennium have yet to be made. 
Whether one is for or opposed to this BUI- I am opposed to it- it has ceased to be a coherent piece of legislation and it should be redrafted. When the former  Senator Murphy  presented his BUI in the Senate he had a coherent piece of legislation which, whether one supported it or not, expressed a consistent philosophy. After 90 amendments were put into the BUI in the Senate it comes to the House of 
Representatives with all sorts of selfcontradictory features to which I propose to draw attention in the course of my address. Although 90 of the 135 amendments moved in the Senate were successful and have made the Bill a poor piece of drafting when it is considered technically, no amendments were accepted to clauses 48 and 49 which are the most doubtful clauses of the Bill. In point of fact it could be said that the former senator in his tactics stood with clauses 48 and 49 as a fort and was prepared to allow all sorts of other clauses to disappear. Whatever the Bill provides with regard to irretrievable breakdown of marriage, in many of its features it is an irretrievable breakdown in logic. 
-I was saying that whether the Bill satisfactorily dennes irretrievable breakdown, the contradiction between clauses such as 43 and 48 produces an irretrievable breakdown in logic. I will ask a little later how a judge can hold both in his mind unless one treats clause 43 simply as window dressing. It is so incoherent as a piece of legislation that it is no testimony to the Senate's claims to be a House of analytical review. The Bill professes to get rid of indignities, distress, embarrassments and costs. It professes to bring in more just elements of maintenance, custody and property settlements. It confuses what may in fact be a unilateral declaration of divorce as irretrievable breakdown of marriage. It has been sold on the philosophical appeal of the words 'irretrievable breakdown of marriage '. Of course, everybody believes that if an irretrievable breakdown of marriage has occurred people should not be forced to live together. But what is irretrievable breakdown of marriage? The Bill has been sold on that expression and on the emphasis put on counselling provisions to buttress marriage which are presented as if there were no counselling provisions in existing law. But the fact remains that one parry can be cast off without having any say. 
One defence of the Bill is specious. It professes to get rid of the concept of fault. It is perfectly impossible to determine questions of custody or to have the best interests of a child determined without taking into account the character and conduct of the spouses. Do honourable members think a judge, in determining to which of the parties the child is to be assigned, cannot take into account whether one is a drunkard, or one is a basher, or one has committed some of the matrimonial offences that existed before? 
-Of course he does. That is why we cannot get rid of the concept of fault. This is another attractive feature that is supposed to have been put up in the Bill, that here we have a magic formula for getting rid of fault. We cannot get rid of fault. 
I am not attacking it as being still there. I am talking about terminology that confuses- 
-Of course you have fault. 
-I do not want fault, but I do not believe that the former  Senator Murphy  was able to abolish sin. The Bill in clause 43 professes that the courts should take into account the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life. Where did the framers of the Bill get that? It looks as if they went around to the vicar and said: 'Vicar, give us a definition of sacramental marriage'. When they were given a definition they then said: 'Look, you will have to cut out all references to the Holy Spirit but let us have the effects of it which is the permanent union of man and woman for life to the exclusion of all others '. 
The judge has to have clause 43 in mind when determining the meaning of marriage. But the court cannot have any regard for any such principle because without allowing any judicial discretion clause 48 overrides this with the consideration that the marriage has broken down irretrievably if, and only if, the court is satisfied that the parties separated and therefore lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of the marriage. Even that plural expression 'parties separated' has confusing implications, for the condition is met by the decision of one to leave the others. It is not a mutual consent. I can desert my wife and then divorce her after 12 months. So do not say it is a decision of the parties, in the plural. It can be a decision of one party. As it stands its connotations are that both are deciding to separate but this may not be the case. Obviously indignity and hurt are not eliminated if one party dumps another, especially if there are weaknesses in the maintenance provisions, as there are in this Bill. In dissolution by consent provisions it has been proven that it is easy for the interests of children to be swept aside. Irretrievable breakdown should clearly rest upon objective tests not open to self interested manoeuvres. As a bare minimum the period of separartion should be more than a year. The existing law that divorce proceedings cannot be instituted within 3 years of marriage should continue to exist with existing qualifications to prevent a kind of Pseudo marriage racket. 
MrMcKenzie-Oh! 
It is perfectly possible. I can cite the case of one celebrated Tommy Manville who used the law in this way: You have a honeymoon, you desert your wife and then you take another wife at a little later time. 
-Oh no, he wanted the advantage of marriage because many ladies would not go with him unless they were married. The drafting of the provision is so appalling- perhaps the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  will shout about this one- that it is probable that if a serviceman were sent on service to Butterworth in Malaya his wife could divorce him if the fact of separation because of his service was of a year's duration. The continuance of maintenance, affectionate correspondence by letters and the belief on the part of the husband that the marriage was still in force apparently might not count. I do not say that with certainty - 
I do not say it with certainty because I do not see the defensive provisions. The Bill is thus proposing- I think the present Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  was very clear about this and what I say is not an attack on the Bill- an alternative philosophical basis of marriage and family while professing not to do so, because the theological part in clause 43 is a profession not to do so. It proposes something which can be broken unilaterally without any fundamental breach in the relationship- and 'unilaterally' means by one party alone. The word marriage' has its content altered so that marriage becomes in fact an impermanent association, while with astonishing inconsistency- I understand that the former senator who drafted the Bill or was responsible for its introduction in the Senate did not want this clause- it uses the expressions of sacramental marriage in clause 43. The existing Barwick divorce law is attracted by the action of parties to take steps to divorce, but this law is attracted by the fact that people marry because it is changing the nature of marriage in the Australan community. Justice takes a hammering. 
Clause 114 would allow a wife or husband to take action against the spouse by way of injunction on suspicion. These injunction proceedings cannot possibly be considered without the concept of fault. They have to be established. Although the aim of the legislation is to make the proceedings less expensive, no lawyer seems to believe it will succeed. The Family Court is to be Federal. Jurisdiction is vested at present in State courts and a purely Federal court cannot deal with adoptions or most trustee questions. It is virtually impossible for Federal judges to go on circuit and therefore many petitions have to come to the State capital cities. That is a factor of expense immediately. 
A man on $500 a week could leave his wife to draw the pension- say, an invalid pension- and have no obligation for maintenance no matter how callous his action in casting her over. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  strongly supporting the Bill, questioned this odd provision that if the person who would ordinarily have to be maintained can draw social services, or has that degree of support-, the maintenance obligation has gone. If this arises after a desertion it seems pretty unfair that this cost may be the cast upon the whole community. This sets the tone, unfortunately, for the maintenance proceedings. Rights are minimised almost necessarily and logically if it is pretended that wrongs or faults do not exist. The 14 present grounds of divorce are to be replaced by one grand ground of 12 months separation with no analysis of responsibility for the separation. 
Three things need be said about injunction proceedings. The first is that they are likely to overload the courts. Infamous conduct in marriage can take place without 12 months separationwithout any separation at all- but under the main provision for divorce in clause 48 it is incapable of remedy. A spouse may humiliate the partner for instance, by producing a de facto partner under the matrimonial roof. Since adultery and mental cruelty, which this action would be, are not grounds for divorce under the terms of the Bill, the only real redress provided for in the Bill would be presumably by way of an induction ordering the spouse to send the de facto partner from the matrimonial home. The second thing is that the injuction proceedings must then in fact make it perfectly clear that there is a fault, in spite of the efforts of the drafters of this Bill to get rid of fault. The court will presumably order the injunction if callous, cruel or malicious behaviour is established, but by that action you will be establishing faulty behaviour. The third thing is that the injunction proceedings, because they must become so crucial in getting any justice done under the terms of an unjust Bill, will be the downfall of any effort to get the costliness out of matrimonial causes. Injunction, the path to some effort at justice in an essentially unjust Bill, will call for high legal skill within the framework of this legislation. 
The maintenance provisions are a major weakness in the Bill. Apart from the appalling considerations mentioned before, namely, the injustice of a cast-off wife having to prove that she cannot maintain herself and the injustice of the obligation to maintain her being cast on the State in certain circumstances, there is also the possibility of injustice to the husband. If a woman enters into a de facto relationship, the present presumption is that the obligation to maintain her rests upon the de facto partner, but if she proves while in a de facto relationship that she cannot maintain herself the way in which this Bill is drafted means that the husband must pay alimony to sustain the adulterous relationship. I ask the House to look at clause 75(1) (1). When a woman is in a de facto relationship it can still be a duty of the husband to maintain her. If the court orders that he should maintain her because the de facto husband is not wealthy enough to maintain her in the style to which her former husband accustomed her, then he has to pay alimony to sustain an adulterous relationship. 
Yes, and it should be eliminated. I am not talking about the present legislation. I have got the Bill before me in this House; I have not got the Barwick legislation before me. If you want to ask about the present Act, let me tell you that I voted against aspects of the Barwick legislation and if they are repeated I am going to vote against them again. That is all. It is not illogical. The point is that it would be left to the judge, one would hope, but clause (l)(b) looks very mandatory, from the expressions of opinion which I have got. 
-Yes, but if you expect the husband to pay for a wife who has chosen another man, then I think you are suffering an irretrievable breakdown in realism. 
It is not a question of sin. There may be many husbands who are quite glad to continue to pay the wife because they are glad to get rid of her. I cannot cover every single situation. Nevertheless, this provision seems an extraordinary one to perpetuate in our matrimonial legislation. I think that this Bill makes real marriage- the stability for marriage from which children derive mental stability- depend more heavily upon custom without the benefit of legal support. Quite clearly, I do not think that the law ever made marriage good. It is the integrity of the parties to the marriage which creates a good marriage. There is no question about that. But the law ought to buttress, as far as possible, sound custom. It cannot do it entirely. 
This Bill provides less security to a marriage than is provided by some societies where the State takes no cognisance of marriage at all. In those societies there may often be divorce by mutual consent, but there may often also be, by custom, many safeguards. This Bill provides for divorce by consent of one, with minimal security in the period of separation of only 12 months, and with no security of requiring previous duration of the marriage over any set period. The court has no discretion other than to pronounce a decree if the fact of 12 months separation is established. The Bill cannot be just if there are no objective tests to illustrate irretrievable breakdown of marriage. A wide section of the public would support divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. It is impossible to escape the conclusion that the expression is retained in the Bill for the propaganda value of the words. 
The Bill does not really provide for a petition of dissolution of marriage. It makes it an automatic application for dissolution of marriage. Infamous behaviour on the part of the person applying does not deprive him or her of the initiative in dissolving the marriage. The Bill is badly drafted. This is no doubt due to the fact that so many amendments were inserted in the Senate and the fact that the proponents of the Bill would accept any amendments other than amendments to clauses 48 and 49. The functions of the family law courts have not been fully thought out. I believe that the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  who preceded me in this debate and who pleaded not to establish the federal courts because of certain disabilities they had but to vest State family courts with federal jurisdiction made points which every lawyer whom I have questioned upon the clause agrees are true. 
There are a number of provisions which illustrate the Bill's capricious injustice. It would be surprising if there were logical coherence in a Bill which was drafted in one form and studded with amendments from senators who thought quite differently. If a wife is deserted and defends her right to maintenance she will pay for that defence. As one distinguished lawyer puts it, the proposed ground and the proposed cost provisions make marriage the only form of contract which can be broken at the option of the other party, with the offended party then having the right, pleasure and privilege of paying for the breach of contract if he or she opposes the other party. I think these things have not been thought out fully. We need an amendment to divorce law, but we cannot have a Bill brought into the Senate with one philosophy, have hurled into it a battery of contradictory amendments and say: Isn't this a marvellous piece of legislation? This ought to be our permanent divorce law '. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1). (2), (3) and (4) As a preliminary to the introduction of regular exercises within the Central Office of my Department, senior administrative officers have been engaged in a series of discussions with representatives of other Departments located within the MLC Tower. 
The final stage of these discussions has now been reached, and procedures for catering with emergencies are currently being prepared. These procedures will become operative early in 1975. 
In all areas where specific exercises have not been conducted, regular safety checks are carried out by fire authorities. Instructions on procedures for handling emergencies either exist or are in the course of preparation. 
Details of exercises undertaken at regional offices are as follows: 
-I think the most serious immediate effect of the proposal would be that 400 000 technical education students would be affected. The honourable member will recall that this Parliament appropriated $3 8m to pay the fees of these students over a certain period. Many students are getting their opportunity for technical education through this scheme. It is a scheme very definitely related to national efficiency. The second most serious effect would be in the vague suggestions made by the  speaker  at a function at the Southern Cross Hotel - 
-I shall reveal that in a moment. The  speaker  at the Southern Cross Hotel, addressing himself to the subject 'Operation to Save Australia from Sinking', made a vague statement about student allowances. The student allowances are means-tested and those who receive them receive them because they are needed. If I have had any criticism in this Parliament by way of correspondence from members it has been that the means test is fairly stringent. That at least ensures that those who are getting the assistance need it. The Leader of the Opposition, as reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' in making these - 
-I hope he will explain that. But, as the report stands, it goes out as a statement of policy. It is a statement of policy upon which the honourable member is asking me to comment. I could understand criticism of expenditure on tertiary education coming from those who want to spend money on people in greater need further down the line. But the last statement we had from the Leader of the Opposition on that issue was during the Karmel debates when he suggested that expenditure should be concentrated on those schools which have the highest resource levels in Australia. The criticism I could make- it is one that was made of myself at one stage- is this: Both the Leader of the Opposition and I are beneficiaries of what was once the only free university in Australia and the world. We both had our fees paid and I think we both have reason to be grateful for that and both have reason to wish to see others as beneficiaries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the following tables. For the purpose of this question 'staffing' has been denned as academic staffing. Figures for technical and administrative supporting staff have been excluded. The tables exclude private institutions, and a small number of government supported institutions which do not fall within the normal definition of ' university ' or 'college of advanced education'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the final report of the Committee on Open University to the Universities Commission dated December 1974, together with a statement on that report. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a statement which summarises the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
My Department does not propose to open any new office for migrant education in the City of Parramatta. Special services for migrants in the Western Suburbs of Sydney in the special field of education will continue to be provided through the New South Wales Ministry of Education 's Migrant Education Services. These services are operated by the Ministry of Education on behalf of the Australian Department of Education. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the attached tables. 
Attachment 'A' 
In answer to the honourable member's question the following table shows the salary of (a) first year and (b) fifth year graduate school teachers in Western Australia, New South Wales and Victoria as at 30 June in each of the last five years. The table also shows the corresponding annual increases in salary expressed as a percentage of the salary level at the previous June. 
WA N.S.W. Vic 
Salary Increase Salary Increase Salary Increase Year 30 June Per cent 30 June Per cent 30 June Percent 
First year graduate teachers 
In support of my nomination of the honourable member for Perth,  Mr Joe  Berinson, as  Chairman  of Committees I point out that I have known him for over 20 years and that in that time I have seen him operate on many occasions in this House as  Deputy Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  and outside of this House as a  chairman  of organisations. On all those occasions he has been completely impartial, extremely competent technically in the rulings that he has given and thoroughly well versed in the Standing Orders. He is a man who can impart dignity to the office of  Chairman  of Committees. Not only, of course, will he be called to the office of  Chairman  of Committees if my nomination is successful but also he will be the person in this House who will most often act as the  Speaker  in the absence of yourself,  Mr Speaker.  I believe that the honourable member for Perth,  Mr Berinson,  is the most competent member of this Parliament to fulfil that position. It is an honour to nominate him for it. 
As far as the matter raised by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  is concerned, namely, the policy change of the admission body of Monash University, if he desires me to express an opinion entirely as an outsider as he himself is on this matter, I should say that the policy change of the admission body should have been notified in time to influence student decisions. Having said that, I just draw attention to one or two things. There are 4 000 tertiary Asian students in this country. There are 1 1 000 Asian students altogether in this country. The only decisions that have been made by myself in relation to those students, especially the tertiary ones, are in relation to our power to grant benefits to students. We have made universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges free for those students precisely in the same way as they are free for Australian students. One distinguished headmaster of an A category school in an attack on me over this decision pointed out that over the three or four years of a course this probably cost the Australian taxpayer $50m and that there is no other country either among the Asian countries themselves or any European country which extends a similar benefit to Asian students. 
I just draw attention to this matter. I certainly will inquire of Monash University about a change and a fixed percentage of Asian students going into the medical faculty. It would be entirely defensible if the University took the view that it simply admitted people into the medical faculty according to their results in admission tests. This might let in all the Asian students who apply, or it might let in none of them. Presumably the University has made some kind of a policy decision that there is a service to be rendered to Asian countries by admitting Asian students to the medical faculty. If the honourable member for Deakin is correct, the university concerned has decided to reduce the number of Asian students entering. I will inquire why, but not as a person having any authority. 
I draw the attention of the honourable gentleman to the constitutional position. Only one university has been created by an Act of the Crown through the Commonwealth, and that is the Australian National University. This Parliament has never taken power- in my view it should not take power- to control the Australian National University. Monash University and the University of Melbourne, which are the universities to which the honourable member referred, were created by Acts of the Crown through the State. The State Parliament of Victoria has never taken power to control the actions of the universities. They are entirely autonomous. Insofar as an Australian High Commissioner is involved, I have no doubt that he gave the advice on the existing regulations of the universities to which these people might ultimately apply for entry. If he gave them the impression that if they passed at the secondary level they would automatically be able to get into Monash University, he would be giving them incompetent advice. I find it very hard to believe that he would say that. The students would understand that they would have to pass and that if they passed well enough competitively they might enter the medical faculty. Of course the medical faculty is not only most competitive for Asian students; it is just about the most competitive faculty to get into for any student. The enrolment usually is limited by the amount of space in hospitals for the clinical training which is associated with the degree course. 
I do not want to suggest to the headmistress of the Methodist Ladies College or to the Asian students that in making any inquiries about this matter I do so with authority or with the power to direct the university. I do not seek that power. I certainly believe that universities should not suddenly change their admission regulations without due notification to the students. In view of the fact that people make decisions a year or two beforehand, the notice should be adequate. But that is only an opinion. It is not a statement of authority. I shall have inquiries made and I shall inform the honourable member. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks to establish the Curriculum Development Centre as a statutory authority. In June 1973 the announcement was made of the Government's decision to establish a Curriculum Development Centre, with the following functions: To undertake curriculum development tasks and to develop teaching and learning materials for use in schools; to commission and support curriculum and materials development; to display equipment and materials; to publish assessments and information about equipment and materials; to provide advisory services relating to curriculum and materials development; and to arrange the printing and marketing of materials. The Government's intention that the Centre would be a statutory body, that it would have a governing council and that basic funding would be provided by the Australian Government was contained in the announcement of June 1973. Expenditure is expected to be around $2m to $3m annually when full operation is achieved. 
In the word 'curriculum' educators refer to the whole range of learning experience which a child undergoes during his schooling. An aim of curriculum development is to relate education to the needs of the individual. It includes not only the design of courses but also the formulation of effective teaching methods and the design and production of books and other printed materials, slides and film strips, films, audio-tapes, and so on through the whole range of teaching and learning materials and the equipment required for their use in the classroom. A characteristic feature of education today is its diversity- in the range of student abilities and interests, in the degree of responsibility being accorded to individual schools, in the design of school buildings themselves. All these, and others, are creating pressure for diversity in courses, materials and teaching mathods. 
Experience in Australia and overseas has demonstrated the benefits that can accrue to children and to their schools from the concentration of relatively large funds and other resources on curriculum development on a national scale. In the United Kingdom a national Schools Council fosters curriculum and materials development by providing funds and other support and by arranging publication of results. In the United States of America several large projects have been mounted in recent years- in science, social science and the humanities- generally with federally provided budgets of several million dollars. The products of some of these are being used in Australian schools. 
In Australia each of the State education departments has created facilities for curriculum development. In general, however, these facilities appear to be fully stretched in the production of materials of particular relevance ' to the individual State, and which receive limited use in other States. There is also a lack of any permanent facility for the exchange of information and ideas between the State curriculum agencies, and for receiving and assessing new concepts and developments from overseas. These considerations have for some time pointed to a need for a national body such as this Centre. Further, the Department of Education has, over a period, received many specific proposals for curriculum and materials' development on a national scale, indicating that there would be ample work of a national character for a Curriculum Development Centre, now and in the future. The proposed Centre has been discussed with the State Ministers for Education, who are my colleagues on the Australian Education Council. 
They have given the proposal their full endorsement. The Bill provides that 3 nominees of the Education Council- that is, the State Ministers and I- be included in the membership of the Council of the Curriculum Development Centre. 
Previous governments have given support and financial aid to national curriculum projects. I refer here particularly to the Australian Science Education Project, for which a total of $940,000 was contributed from Federal funds over the 5 year life of the project; secondly, to the program to stimulate the teaching of Asian languages and cultures in schools, for which $1.5m is being allocated, again over a 5 year period; and also to the National Committee on Social Science Teaching. All of these were initiated in consultation with the States. Each has made a valuable contribution in iis respective area, and continues to do so. I wish to acknowledge the part played in implementing these projects by previous Ministers having responsibility for education, in particular the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The establishment of a Curriculum Development Centre is a logical development of the principle underlying these activities of the Australian Government in the curriculum development area. 
So that work could begin as quickly as possible I announced an Interim Council for the Centre late in 1973. This Interim Council was to initiate all the functions of the Centre. It was also to establish liaison with existing bodies interested in curriculum development, determine staffing needs, and advise on the accommodation required for the Centre. A wide range of bodies was consulted in the formulation of the Interim Council, including the State Directors-General of Education, the Schools Commission, nongovernment school authorities, parents and teachers organisations, the Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education and institutions involved in teacher education. 
At this stage I would like to pay a tribute to the  Chairman  of the Interim Council, Professor G. T. Evans, and his fellow councillors, who have pursued the tasks given to them with vigour and imagination. In September 1974 the Interim Council released a statement on the 'Functions and Mode of Operation of the Centre'. For the information of honourable members, I table that document. The Council has also sponsored a number of projects. The largest of these, the Social Education Materials Project, is being undertaken by the Centre at the suggestion of, and jointly with, the National Committee on Social Science Teaching. The Project will develop 8 substantial units of teaching materials over a 3 year period, and all State education departments and the Catholic and other nongovernment school authorities are participating in it. The Australian Government is providing $lm towards the costs ofthe project. 
The Bill itself would confirm the existing arrangements and would enable the appointment of a permanent Council and a Director of the Centre. In its administrative provisions, including such matters as grants, appointments, remuneration, accounting and auditing, the Bill follows the pattern of similar measures relating to other bodies and commissions in the education area, such as the Schools Commission. I will therefore mention only the main provisions. Clause 4 establishes the Centre as a statutory corporation. The Centre is to have dealings, often of a business nature, including sale and purchase of teaching materials, and as it will be engaging in the production and sale of educational materials it will need to hold copyright. Corporate status will enable it to do these things. Clause 5 lists the functions, and clause 6 the powers, of the Centre. I have already outlined the functions. The powers comprise those necessary for the discharge of the functions, including power to arrange for printing and publication of materials. 
Clause 9 establishes the Council of the Curriculum Development Centre, and clause 10 states its function as the governing and policymaking body of the Centre. As provided in clause 1 1, the Council is to comprise between 1 1 and 16 part-time members, together with the Director of the Centre, who will be the executive member. Part-time members, one of whom will be appointed  Chairman,  will serve for terms of not more than 3 years. Clause 18 establishes the full-time statutory office of Director of the Centre. As indicated in clause 19, the Director will conduct the affairs of the Centre, in accordance with the directions of the Council. The Director will be appointed for a period of up to 7 years- clause 20- with the possibility of reappointment. Staff other than the Director are to be provided under the Public Service Act 1922-1974, as stated in clause 29. Apart from its permanent staff, it is expected that the Centre will wish to draw on the knowledge and experience of other persons, such as officers of the State education departments and the staffs of universities and colleges of advanced education. Clauses 30 and 31 provide for such arrangements to be made. 
In keeping with the nature of its functions and operations it is proposed that the Centre's financial transactions be outside the public account. This intent is reflected in clauses 32 to 42. The principal funds of the Centre will be provided by the Australian Government. The Centre will also earn income from the sale of products and the provision of services- clause 46. Clause 47 requires the Centre to consult and co-operate with other bodies with an interest in its general area of work, such as the Schools Commission and the State departments of education. Large sums are being spent annually by the State and Australian governments and by non-government education authorities on the physical and manpower resources for schools. If maximum benefit is to be gained from these expenditures, and if the innate talents of our children are to be developed to meet the calls of society in the present and in the future, then proper arrangements for the continuous review and development of the materials and methods of teaching and learning in schools are essential. In establishing the Curriculum Development Centre the Government emphasises its recognition of the importance of curriculum development in improving and enriching the education of children and young people. I have pleasure in recommending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the establishment of a Technical and Further Education Commission. Since it came to office, the Government has pursued a policy of establishing a complete range of expert, independent bodies to advise the Government on needs and priorities in the various sectors of education. To complement the Schools Commission, the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education, we are now establishing, through this Bill, a commission which will give the long underdeveloped area of technical and further education the same assurance of skilled and impartial consideration of its needs as have the areas of primary, secondary and tertiary education. The Technical and Further Education Commission is the last of these 4 commissions to be established; but it is by no means the least. It will be concerned with the quality of education that is to be received by something like half a million students throughout Australia. 
The new Commission will continue and build upon the valuable work of the existing Interim Committee, the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education, which as honourable members will recall was appointed in April 1 973. That Committee reported in April 1 974 on financial assistance to the States for the period 1 July 1974 to 31 December 1975. Its major recommendations were accepted by the Goverment and substantial funds are now being made available under the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974. The Commission will be concerned not only with technical education but also with adult education in technical colleges, evening classes and classes conducted by adult education organisations such as the Workers Educational Association. Through a combination of provisions in clauses 3. 4 and 6 of the Bill, the Commission will be able to concern itself with technical and further education, in the sense just mentioned, whether it is conducted in technical colleges or by government or nongovernment non-profit adult education organisations. 
A most important area of concern for the Commission will be the fostering of opportunities for recurrent education. As my colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has pointed out, people who are now entering the workforce may well need re-training several times during their working life. The technical and further education sector will be responsible in large measure for the provision of facilities to meet this growing need. As I said in April 1974 when I tabled the Interim Committee's Report on Technical and Further Education in Australia, the report takes a long step in the direction of lifelong education and of opportunities for re-entry into education. It recommends unrestricted access for adults to vocationally oriented education. It removes barriers discouraging adults. It has particular regard for the needs of women, of country students, of migrants, and of handicapped persons. In establishing the Commission we are providing the permanent machinery for the development of these ideals and the creation of a flexible technical and further education system which will supply opportunities for education and training where and when these are needed, and not merely for a limited period early in the lifetime of students. 
The Bill requires the Commission, in the performance of its functions, to consult with the relevant authorities in the States. The Commission will thus be a vehicle through which, in co-operation with the States, technical and further education can be developed, with the aid of Australian Government funds, to achieve the objectives I have outlined. The States will retain their existing responsibilities for administering programs of technical and further education. The assistance which the Australian Government will supply through the operation of the Commission, will be additional to the States' own expenditure. We will be looking to the States to maintain at least their existing level of effort in providing for technical and further education, so that the maximum benefit may flow from the Australian Government's contribution in this area. 
The Bill provides for a Commission consisting of a full-time  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  and a part-time membership not exceeding ten. Appointment of members of the Commission and their conditions of service will be the same as for the other education commissions. The Commission may request the Minister to appoint committees to assist the Commission, and the Commission's secretariat will be employed under the Public Service Act. The functions of the Commission, as set out in clause 6, are to advise the Minister on the general development of technical and further education in Australia, on needs and priorities in the provision of facilities, on desirable standards for those facilities, and on financial assistance to the States for and in respect of institutions of technical and further education. 
The Commission is required to perform its functions with a view to promoting the balanced development of technical and further education in Australia. The Commission will also promote the wide access of intending students to technical and further education facilities, on the basis of equal opportunity for all. The Commission will have regard to the aspirations of individuals as well as the requirements of the manpower situation in pursuing this end. The establishment of the Technical and Further Education Commission is an important event in Australian education. I regard this Bill as one of the most significant measures that I have had the satisfaction of introducing to the House. It represents a continuing commitment by the Government to a vital area of education. From now on, there will be a permanent body which will concern itself solely with the national development of technical and adult education. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics publishes relevant data in 'Survey of Leavers from Schools, Universities or Other Education Institutions, February 1974' (Reference No. 6.9 16 January 1975). The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has provided information from this survey on which the following percentages were calculated. 
23 per cent of those persons who were at school fulltime in 1973 and who did not return to school full-time in 1974 commenced full-time post-school studies in 1974. Of these 9.9 per cent commenced at University 8.2 per cent commenced at Colleges of Advanced Education. 3.2 per cent commenced at Technical and Further Education institutions 
. 8 per cent commenced at other post-school institutions. 
27.7 per cent of those females who were at school fulltime in 1973 and who did not return to school full-time in 1974 commenced full-time post-school studies in 1974. Of these 7.9 per cent commenced at University 11.2 per cent commenced in Colleges of Advanced Education. 4.9 per cent commenced at Technical and Further Education institutions 3.8 per cent commenced at other post-school institutions. 
Furthermore, from another source, the Acting Commonwealth Statistician is currently compiling statistics of the number of students who completed secondary schooling in 1973, and who subsequenly were attending either a University or College of Advanced Education in 1974. The statistics, classified by sex, will be published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in 'University Statistics 1974 Part I' (Reference No. 13.7) and 'Colleges of Advanced Education l974'(ReferenceNo. 13.10). 
In reply to Part (2) of the honourable member's question, the Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following table. 1973 is the latest available information for both Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two forms of scholarship have existed over a number of years; they were the secondary scholarships and tertiary scholarships. These still exist as they were enacted by the late Government excepting that the means test has been liberalised and they are being tapered out. Any student at the tertiary level who won a scholarship tenable at universities or colleges of advanced education has all his fees paid and has a means tested living allowance. The position today is that all students in tertiary education have their fees paid and they have a means tested living allowance. There is a slight difference for scholarship holders. In the past they also had their student union fees paid and sports fees paid. Those who won scholarships under the late Government still have those fees paid. The secondary scholarships are being phased out but their terms today are exactly the same as they were under the late Government. All those who won a secondary scholarship received an allowance of $150 a year and were eligible to receive up to $400 a year according to means. Excepting that the means test has been liberalised, while that system continues to exist for all this year, it is as it was. 
New payments have been made at the secondary level. In one case about 14 000 young people are eligible to receive up to $450 a year as a form of assistance in the fifth and sixth forms- the same 2 years to which the former scholarship applied- according to the means of their parents. This means that pensioners and others who at unbelievable sacrifice saw their children through the fifth an sixth forms now have the assistance of a scholarship which is worth $900 over 2 years. In addition, approximately 17 000 children, many of whom are secondary students, have become eligible for the isolated children's allowance which is worth between $350 and $1,150 a year.  
I do not know how it can be said that the tax dollar is being unwisely spent unless one is opposed to the extensions that have been made, because the former system still exists. These extensions which have been made permit all students for instance to be eligible for that component of the old scholarship whereby their fees were paid. In addition the Schools Commission is investigating ways of assisting gifted children across a wide range of subject matters, not merely in the old ACER tests which tested numeracy and verbal skill; but perhaps giftedness in many other fields will be considered for assistance by the Schools Commission. Reversion to the old system would mean that many thousands of students who are now receiving assistance would lose it. Reversion to the old system would mean that those families who, at very great sacrifice, have got their children through the fifth and sixth forms on very low incomesthis would involve some 14 000 children at present- would lose vital assistance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Funds specifically for educational purposes are authorised under the following Acts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Tables showing the information requested are set out below. School retention rates are 'apparent' as they only reflect the relationship between total numbers enrolled at the relevant stages. It is not feasible to trace actual student cohorts through the various school systems. 'True' retention rates are obscured by 
overseas and inter-State migration over the periodfor example, retention rates in the Australian Capital Territory are higher partly because of gains through population inflows; 
net migration between schools over the period- rates are influenced by movements from government to nongovernment schools during secondary years. This movement can explain the occurrence of apparent rates exceeding 100 percent. 
The latest year for which theses figures are available is 1973. 
I have sat in this House for 30 years. Therefore, I have heard all the versions of the Vietnam debate from the time when it was a question of maintaining French authority in Indo-China to the debate that is current in Australia today. If one wishes to quote me in inconsistent statements, one can quote me in inconsistent statements a dozen times. Let me say that I believed  Sir Robert  Menzies when I was a young man and I thought Australia had an interest in maintaining French rule in IndoChina. Let me say that I believed  Sir Robert  Menzies, when I was not so young a man, that the United States Fleet had been attacked in the Gulf of Tonkin by the North Vietnamese. 
The first attitude about the maintenance of French rule in Indo-China was a standard Australian attitude. The honourable gentleman from New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who has just spoken, has asked us to consider Australian interests. The people of this area have primarily the right to consider their own fife and not what successive Australian governments consider to be Australian interests. I am old enough in this Parliament to remember that everybody in IndoChina who opposed the continuance of French rule in Indo-China was classified as a 'red'- and that included Diem, who was later for a time supported by the U.S. Government. I remember when the Australian Ambassador, Noel Deschamps, was the leading influence over Norodom Sihanouk. He was Norodom Sihanouk's alter ego. Harold Holt went to IndoChina as the guest of Norodom Sihanouk in Cambodia and spoke back here with the utmost warmth of the government of Sihanouk. I remember his successors as Prime Ministers and Ministers in this House, but in the same LiberalCountry Party coalition, supporting the overthrow of Norodom Sihanouk by Lon Nol. Norodom Sihanouk walked a tightrope which, I do not have the slightest doubt, was in the interests of the people of Cambodia, now called the Khmer Republic, to keep them out of involvement in war. 
The honourable gentleman opposite has asked us to consider all of Indo-China. Well, the succession states of Indo-China consist of Laos, Cambodia or the Khmer Republic, and the 2 Vietnams. Laos has a coalition government with the communists, the Pathet Lao. In the Cabinet, in one portfolio the Minister is non-Pathet Lao and his assistant is Pathet Lao. In another portfolio, the Minister is Pathet Lao and his assistant is non-Pathet Lao. If such a compromise keeps them from killing one another and spares Laos the agony of civil war, long may the compromise continue. It is immaterial to me whether in the government sparing the country that agony there are communists. 
I remember also the pamphlets distributed by Paul Hasluck. My house was then in his constituency; it has now been put back into my electorate. I received all of Paul Hasluck 's propaganda during election campaigns. When he was Minister for External Affairs, responsible for foreign policy, out came pamphlets showing the red arrows coming down from China. The assertion was that Chinese forces were involved in Vietnam. There came the day when I heard Harold Holt deny as he stood in this Parliament that there had ever been any Chinese troops in Vietnam. I heard in this House Diem commended as the saviour of South Vietnam, as well he may have been. He was then overthrown. Whatever one thinks of the government of Diem, one cannot have 2 opinions about the consequences. While Diem was president of South Vietnam, the United States of America needed 300 military advisers in South Vietnam. After his overthrow, the United States needed 600 000 troops in South Vietnam. The plain truth is that the United States opened Pandora's box. 
If it be true that somebody intends to kill a million people in South Vietnam, there is one way and one way only of stopping him. That is by massive military intervention. We have the extraordinary spectacle of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England, asking the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to get assurances from communist governments that nobody would be slaughtered and then saying: 'You cannot believe communist governments anyway; look at the result of their agreements in Paris and elsewhere over the whole of Indo-China'. If it is useless to get assurances from communist governments, what are we talking about? The only way to stop a slaughter is by a massive military intervention in which honourable members opposite say we should not engage. 
There is a thesis advanced all the time that if enough moral effort had been put in we could win. Field Marshal Montgomery, appearing on television, repeatedly said one thing. He said: 'They made the second biggest strategic mistake in intervening in Vietnam. They made the second biggest military strategic mistake in intervening in South Vietnam'. Finally, the television interviewer asked the Field Marshal: 'Well, for heaven's sake, what is the biggest mistake?' He said: 'It is to invade Russia in winter'. If one likes, one can say that if Napoleon had only put in a bit more effort or if Hitler had only put in a bit more effort or if Winston Churchill, in the war of intervention against Russia in 1 9 1 9- 1 920, had put in a bit more effort, each would have won. But they were beaten by distances and temperatures of minus 60 degrees centigrade. 
Both  Sir Douglas  Kendrew, a former Governor of Western Australia, who was the commander of the British Forces in Korea in the course of the Korean war, and Field Marshal Montgomery made the same point, that is, that if an outside nation wants to intervene successfully in Asia it must intervene on a peninsula. On a peninsula there is an end to your line, that is, the water on both sides. If you have naval supremacy, as the Western powers always have had, you can land diversionary forces behind your opponent's lines and you cannot be outflanked because your line is finite. That is the story of Malaysia. There is an additional story in Malaysia, of course, and that is that the Malays never supported Chen Peng's Chinese communists. But it is also the story of the ability to force a compromise in Korea; you are on a peninsula and there is a finite end to your line. When you go into the open country of Asia, especially in the jungles of Asia, you can always be outflanked. If there are European troops standing out like a sore thumb, they can always be identified as the enemy. But if you are in a divided nation, you cannot tell half the time who are your enemies or who are your friends. 
France fought for 10 years. It lost 93,000 dead. It spent the equivalent of f Stg20,000m and after 10 years it withdrew. The United States of America fought for 7 years. It had more than 128,000 casualties. It spent heaven knows how much in treasure- apart from the greatest treasure of all, the blood- and in the end it withdrew. Are we to try to intervene again? The thesis behind intervention is that this is vital to the survival of Australia. If it really is vital to the survival of Australia, the form of conscription that we ought to have had would have been every man, not those whose birth date happened to be drawn from a barrel. Honourable members opposite cannot justify their scale of intervention on any contention that what was involved was the life or death of Australia. 
As for the thesis of Chinese primary interest in this, China would be totally undisturbed if we sent one million men from Australia back into 
Vietnam. It did not matter to China if the French fought for 10 years. It did not matter to China if the Americans fought for 7 years. The Chinese were totally undisturbed. 
I have heard the Chinese diplomats at a number of conferences in Europe. They never once used the expression 'Soviet Union'. They used the expression 'that super power which seeks world hegemony, which, while mouthing the slogans of detente, engages in subversion, pressure and terrorism, which militarily occupies those unfortunate enough to be called its allies and which is trying to win the emerging world into its orbit'. If the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  had given a description of Russia, he would almost have given it in identical terms to those used by the Chinese delegates. I saw them going around during the conferences, urging all Europe to be united or it would be taken over by Russia. It is perfectly clear what their major preoccupation is, and it is not Indo-China. 
I asked one of my officers who had come back from Peking whether all those words were rodomontade or whether they were a genuine conviction. He said that when he was in Peking he was taken underground and saw what was virtually a duplicate city which had been built under Peking against the day when it thought it might be subject to aerial bombardment from the Soviet Union. I do not believe that people burrow or build like that to put up sham preoccupations. Far from being particularly preoccupied, they will support revolutionary parties everywhere. This is well known; there is no pretence against it- But the thesis that they are strategically preparing to use Vietnam to attack this country is, I suggest, a childish thesis. They have neither developed the military capacity for a navy to thrust south nor the sort of aerial forces to thrust south. Their preoccupation is with their borders with the Soviet Union. The first distinguished statesman to have the nous to see this, and to see the possibilities of the freedom of Europe in it, was Charles de Gaulle. 
I remember believing  Sir Robert  Menzies when he leaned across the table and said: 'Does the honourable member dare to suggest that if the United States fleet is attacked in the Gulf of Tonkin, it should not defend itself?' Let us look at the attack in the Gulf of Tonkin. The American Senate Committee inquiring into it says that it never took place. It is inherently unlikely that in the wild night in which the American destroyers 'C. Turner Joy' and 'Maddox' were out in the Gulf of Tonkin in what was practically a typhoon any of the motor boats of 
North Vietnam would have been involved. But as they were going through their manoeuvres, they had as their sonar operators greenhorn national servicemen- a thing which the British Navy would never have allowed to happen. Every time a destroyer turned its own rudder would go alongside its own propellers and a particular note was given, which they said were torpedoes coming at them. They radioed the Pentagon that they were being attacked. That was the first point. Secondly, in their actions they lost position; they lost one another in the wild night. Suddenly a ship appeared on the radar screen of one of the destroyers. All guns and rockets were trained and the order was given to fire. But the first officer had the right to press an inhibitor button and ensure that the guns and rockets did not go off while he checked. They illuminated the target with star shell and this revealed that the ship was their consort. That is what the Senate inquiry has established. I did not believe that the Australian Government was so totally misinformed. I am not saying that they were liars or hypocrites. This was the level of information which was coming to the then government from abroad- that American destroyers had been attacked. What was the retaliation? The retaliation for an attack which never took place was the most massive aerial bombardment in history which was started on North Vietnam. 
I do not care whether a man is a communist or not, but if he is accused of having done something he has not done and then suffers a massive aerial bombardment as a result of it, what earthly thesis would he ever come to, except a thesis of imperialist aggression? That is the thesis which was adopted. One does not have to issue certificates of respectability to the Vietcong or certificates of respectibility to the southern authority to know that a civil war is bloody and vicious and that the way each side will treat one another is bloody and vicious. There were My Lais and atrocities against European prisoners, every horror that a civil war ever has. But when this is projected into a wider scale and alleged to be a basic and fundamental interest of Australia and that we should be involved, I do hot know in what respect we are to be involved; if it is by humanitarian action it is not clear to me what humanitarian action the Opposition is advocating; and if by military action, it is not clear to me what the Opposition is advocating; and if by representations to the communist governments, it is not clear to me why the Chinese Government would regard itself as particularly involved- it is an accusation in point of fact that the Chinese are ordering what is taking place in neighbouring countries. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A table showing the required retention rates is set out below. 
School retention rates are 'apparent' as they only reflect the relationship between total numbers enrolled at the relevant stages. It is not feasible to trace actual student cohorts through the various school systems. 'True' retention rates are obscured by 
overseas and inter-State migration over the period- for example, retention rates in the Australia Capital Territory are higher partly because of gains through population inflows: 
net migration between schools over the period- rates are influenced by movements from government to nongovernment schools during secondary years. This movement can explain the occurrence of apparent rates exceeding 100 percent. 
The latest year for which these figures are available is 1973. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my reply to Question No. 1721 (Hansard 6 March 1975, page 1233).  'Terrorist International'  (Question No. 2103) 
in reply- It is not the function of the Curriculum Development Centre to lay down education policies. In relation to migrant education, I would draw the honourable gentleman's attention to the fact that the Schools Commission is investigating the problems of migrant education. The Migrant Advisory Committee is doing likewise, and we have raised expenditure on migrant education to $20m. However, as a result of extremely able letters received from the migrant community, I wrote to the Schools Commission pointing out the complaints that they felt that a lot of the teaching in Australian schools was totally insensitive to their backgrounds and asking the Schools Commission to look at that. 
I want to speak to the amendments proposed by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  because I want to be quick. The crux of his proposal would be the addition to the Curriculum Development Centre Council of one member nominated by each State Minister who is a member of the Australian Education Councilclause 11(1). This is the general form of amendment that I was expecting him to bring forward. I draw his attention to the nature of the Australian Education Council. This comprises the Australian and State Ministers for Education. The Council meets approximately 3 times in every 2 years and is tending to meet more frequently. The 3 members appointed by the Australian Education Council will be virtually 3 members appointed by the State Ministers. Other parts of the honourable member's proposal are simply amendments consequential on this main one. They relate to clauses 3 and 1 1 (2). One effect of the amendment would be to fix the size of the Council at 16 members. As it stands, the Bill permits any number from eleven to sixteen. As a general comment, I would say that the measure of support the establishment of this Centre has had from the States tends to answer the point that is implicit in the amendment. Further, in view of the provision already made for State representation on the Council, the amendment could be seen as unnecessary. 
Clause 11 ( 1 ) (c) provides for 3 nominees of the Australian Education Council. These would be virtually State representatives. By agreement with and between the States, the three would represent all States that are happy with this arrangement. The honourable member for Sturt seems to have overlooked this. In fact, his amendment, which leaves paragraph (c) untouched, would result in 9 representatives of the 6 States. Formal representation of all 6 States under the member for Sturt 's proposal would result in the Council being denied a contribution by several expert groups who could be included under the existing paragraph (e), with its allowance of between four and nine unspecified members. This flexibility might be further reduced if representation of the 2 Territories would also be added within the total membership of sixteen. Only one unspecified place would then be left, and if all States were represented individually - 
I have pointed out that the 6 Australian State Ministers, with myself, form the Australian Education Council and that that Education Council will choose 3 members of the Curriculum Development Centre Council. The State Ministers are happy about this. I cannot understand why, if the honourable gentleman wanted each of the 6 States to be represented, he did not eliminate the reference to the Australian Education Council. I do not see the point in the State Ministers getting representatives in 2 ways and getting 9 representatives on the Council. 
-Yes; I would much rather have the State Ministers collectively picking the experts whom they know to be the best rather than have each State Department of Education nominating its pea. If that were done, I do not think the same sort of quality would be achieved as would be achieved with the 6 State Ministers getting together to pick out the 3 men- after all, the Council is not big enough to justify morewhom they, as a consensus among themselves, regard as the top men in the country. I have had experience in State education departments and I know that the tendency would be for people who have come to the top of the machine to be nominated because it is the formal sense. If the State Ministers were giving their minds to quality, I would be much happier about it. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill, including postponed clause 3- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-in reply- I am sorry that the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  is not present, because I think he has a fundamental misconception of this Bill. The Technical and Further Education Commission in this respect is not comparable to the Commission on Advanced Education or the Universities Commission but is comparable to the Schools Commission. In the cases of universities and colleges of advanced education, we are totally financing them from the Commonwealth. With the Schools Commission and the Technical and Further Commission, in the words of  Mr Willis,  the Minister for Education in New South Wales, we are only putting icing sugar on the cake. It is true that $780m for schools is pretty thick icing sugar and $1 15m for technical colleges is reasonably thick icing sugar, but I agree with  Mr Willis,  the basic cake is the States', so all this talk of the honourable member for Moore about our controlling technical education in the States is quite absurd. It is Commonwealth grants on top of what the State is doing that we are talking about. That is the first aspect. 
Secondly, we say to the States: 'If you want to make technical colleges free, we grant the money for it'. They do not have to make technical colleges free. Their great freedom is not impaired. They can go on charging fees if they like. We say to the States: 'Technical colleges have no residential colleges attached to them. If you want to build them, there is a certain amount of finance available to build them '. Some of them are not interested in building them and, therefore, will not be providing any residential colleges attached to technical colleges. The machinery in technical colleges, according to Kangan, is obsolete in many cases. If they want to modernise their machinery, the grant is for that purpose. In other words, a Commonwealth commission looked at certain needs- I am sorry if an honourable gentleman opposite objects to the wordthat were glaringly obvious. There is sheer physical danger to life and limb from fire hazards and from inability to have proper exits in certain of the technical colleges of Australia. This situation would not be tolerated in any industries. They were not making recommendations about the whole structure of technical education in the States but about certain obvious needs. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has spoken of a lack of flexibility. I do not know about the flexibility in actually appointing a commission, but I ask honourable members to consider the lack of flexibility with respect to the administration. For the purposes of section 15, the States may apply the money to any of the following purposes for recurrent grants: 
Curriculum research and development; 
The assessment of qualifications obtained in other States or Territories with a view to their recognition; 
The training of professional library staff; 
The provision of library materials and library equipment; 
The development of a central information centre; 
The provision of external study facilities; 
The employment of staff to be responsible for matters of safety, health and welfare and to provide student counselling services at institutions of technical and further education; 
The provision of in-service training to non-teaching staff at institutions of technical and further education; 
The publicising of technical and further education; 
The employment of additional staff to assist in planning capital works and to collect statistical information. 
Except for the certain things that were patently obvious needs, not on our assessment but on the evidence presented by the States themselves, for which money was granted- and they chose to make their technical colleges free- these alternative programs, and not their whole basic structure of technical education, are aspects that they may choose. Alternatively they may choose the lot. 
Our predecessors in government made a grant of $36m to technical education over a triennium. We added $ 10m to that grant. Of that $46m in 3 years, 3 States could not spend the money. They could not spend $46m in 3 years. They now have on offer $115m in 2 years. I am not going to name the State, but its Director of Planning of Technical Education said to me: 'Excepting where you have specified a particular course of action, we are not going to be able to spend your money because we have no plans'. That was his statement. We are not interfering with whatever they have to do. We are making recommendations for additional grants. 
These are subventions from the Commonwealth Treasury to the States. I know that, like gramophone needles that are hitting the same crack the whole time, we hear cries of 'centralisation' and 'bureaucracy'. I do not spend the money. The money is granted to the States. In all of our educational programs we are not spending the money. It is granted to universities, colleges of advanced education, and Catholic education authorities. There never was a more decentralised expenditure in history. And as for bureaucracy, a State Minister carries out his educational programs on the advice of his Director of Education, who is one of his employees. But these Commissioners, who come from all over this beautiful Commonwealth of ours, and virtually none of whom are my employees, make recommendations about subventions out of the Commonwealth Treasury for educational purposes. They are not beholden to me. Even when I pay his salary no one would suggest that Professor Karmel was beholden to me. They are totally independent statutory commissions and there is no bureaucracy involved in it. 
I leave that aside. Now we are told that although the Liberal-Country Party Government was far too sensible when it was in office to appoint to the Universities Commission or the Commission of Advanced Education, which could recommend grants of money from the Commonwealth Treasury, anybody who was said to be a representative of a State governmentalthough universities and colleges of advanced education are not strictly State institutions; they are supposed to be independent and autonomous once the Crown has established them through a State- here is a proposition that a body to make grants to the States, to give access to the Commonwealth Treasury, should be studded with representatives of State Governments. I do not know whether honourable members have an inkling of what sort of requests that States are making to the Commissions. If the States were to put all their members on this Commission to say: 'Yes, yes, yes, the States can have it', I should hate to see what would happen to the Commonwealth Treasury. It reminds me of a hymn of my childhood: 'Oh happy band of pilgrims, look upward to the skies, where such a light affliction will win so great a prize'. Of course, that would be the position with State people giving the evidence on what they wanted from the Commonwealth and then jumping over to the other side and saying: 'Yes, certainly you can have it. Here is the key to the Commonwealth Treasury'. I think the Government would have a very exciting time and that honourable gentlemen opposite would have quite a lot to say about it. All I can say is that when it was in office the present Opposition had too much common sense to put up the proposals that it is now putting in Opposition, and I warmly commend them in office. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 8- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
) The Commission shall consist of- 
a Chairman; 
a Deputy Chairman; and 
such number of other members, not being less than 5 nor more than 10, as is from time to time prescribed. 

 - Mr Chairman, I should like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Government is never unmindful of State expertise, and on the Interim Committee there are three State Directors of Technical Education. Other members of the Committee are from the technical teachers' organisation and some have an expertise in technical education in the universities. But this mandatory provision that the Opposition proposes would have six such people from the States appointed by the State Ministers, which would mean that the Committee would take on the character of a State body. The three State Directors of Education on the Interim Committee have expertise in the total funding of a State and can assess the gaps and weaknesses in the education system of another State. The process is very similar in Tasmania now. The honourable gentleman opposite has been accusing me virtually of being in some dire plot in Tasmania. As far as yours truly is concerned, I would have had the State Director of Technical Education from Western Australia and a number of other State people ask their State Governments to second them to investigate the problem in Tasmania, which is simply what I recounted previously. There is a widespread resentment in the north of Tasmania because it is felt that the University of Tasmania and the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education do not meet the needs of people in the north, and perhaps there should be some form of outreaching colleges from those institutions to meet such a need. The investigating committee had on it Professor Karmel, and then  Mr Swanson  evinced a personal interest in it because it is an interesting question with the problem spreading through Tasmania. Professor Richardson also indicated an interest. I would not have thought of appointing so high-powered a committee, but it is an interesting problem, and with the appointment of  Mr Gough,  the committee is entirely geared to the Tasmanian situation. 
My approach to this is that if there is a State problem we should try to get State experts to deal with it, and that is why three state Directors of Technical Education were appointed to the Interim Council. A body set up to assess grants to the States must have State members on it. To have them appointed as nominees of the State Governments is an entirely different thing and would give the committee an entirely different character. For those reasons the Government cannot accept the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are several areas under my authority where activities associated with research and development work are undertaken. 
The Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education. 
All ten members are pan-time. The committee is serviced by a secretariat of three officers who spend about two-thirds of their time on work associated with the committee. 
The officers are employed in Canberra and the committee normally meets in Canberra. 
The committee advises me on priorities in educational research and on financial support for research proposals. It initiates proposals and may guide research projects which it funds, but does not conduct projects itself. 
The 1974-1975 budget for funded projects is $700,000. In addition an estimated $62,000 is available to meet the committee's direct and indirect costs, of operation. 
I decide the nature of projects for support on the advice of the committee, within the terms of reference of the committee. 
The Research and Investigation Committee of the Commission on Advanced Education. 
All six members are part-time. The equivalent of 1.5 persons is employed full-tune as a secretariat. 
Meetings are generally held in Canberra. The secretariat is stationed in Canberra. 
The Committee makes recommendations on financial support for research and investigation projects in advanced education, for instance in the planning of courses in line with the needs -of industry. It does not conduct research projects itself. 
Over the 1973-75 triennium $300,000 is available for grants to projects. The cost in salaries of the secretariat is about $ 1 5,000 in 1 974-75. Other costs are not identifiable. 
All projects recommended for financial support require my approval. 
The Curriculum Development Centre. 
The Interim Council of the Curriculum Development Centre has a full-time chairman and eleven pan-time members. Eleven full-time staff are employed exclusively on the activities of the Centre. 
Seven of the staff are located in Canberra and four staff are located in Melbourne. The Centre is expected to expand staff numbers considerably in the near future. 
The Centre's functions are: to undertake curriculum development tasks and to develop teaching and learning materials for use in schools; to commission and support curriculum and materials development; to display equipment and materials; to publish assessments and information about equipment and materials; to provide advisory services relating to curriculum and materials development; to arrange the printing and marketing of materials. 
The Centre directly undertakes some curriculum development projects, and other outside projects are commissioned and funded by the Centre. 
Within its terms of reference all projects initiated by the Interim Council require my approval. 
The Research Branch of the Department. 
. An average of 1 6 full-time staff. 
Canberra. 
The Branch conducts several in-house projects. Current projects in this category include a survey of the income and expenditure of tertiary students, studies relating to the enrolment and progress of tertiary students, and a survey of schools with high migrant density. The Branch also commissions and arranges for the funding of outside projects such as a project evaluating the Aboriginal Secondary Grants Scheme, the Tertiary Education Entrance Project, a project examining the unsettling effects of periodic movement faced by soldiers' children. There are also research projects on the English proficiency of migrant children and the bi-lingual teaching of Aboriginal children. 
An estimated $600,000 in 1974-75 is being spent on activities associated with research and development. In addition the Branch administers the Australian Government's half share in the funding of the Australian Council for Educational Research. The budget for this item is $185,000 in 1974-75. 

 Major research projects conducted by the Branch and any research projects commissioned through it and conducted by outside agencies require my approval. Decisions on the remainder of research conducted by the Branch are made within the Department. 
Within other areas under my authority there are units which perform tasks which could be regarded as research and development, for example, the development of language teaching materials for migrants, within my Department. Some aspects of the functions of the Schools Commission are also related to research and development. The innovations program worth $7.2m in 1974 and 1975 is an example. 
It is difficult, however, to reasonably quantify the resources which can properly be attributed to research and development only. 
In Australia there are 7600 State schools, 2700 Catholic schools, about 108 Anglican schools and fewer schools of the other denominations. The contribution of the schools that the honourable gentleman has mentioned towards being able to cope with the growing numbers of children in Australia is very slight indeed. I have had conversations recently with a number of the headmasters of grammar schools and they have attributed the downwards movement in their enrolments to rural depression. In view of the scarcity of applicants for their facilities they are putting up their fees. I draw the honourable gentleman's attention to the fact that in December last we increased the grants to all non-government schools - 
... to the extent of $79m, while trying to maintain the purchasing power of the Karmel grants to all schools, as the honourable gentleman has said. The funding in relation to that scheme has been enacted by the Parliament for 2 years. The kind of issues the honourable gentleman has raised should now be raised with the Schools Commission, which will be making its recommendations to the Parliament shortly for funding over the next triennium. I doubt whether I will be able to carry out any changes at the present time. The honourable gentleman will recall that we raised the grants to schools from $1 12m in the last biennium of the McMahon Government to $780m in the present biennium. I doubt whether the grants will be increased much further. I agree with the honourable gentleman that there are those sorts of problems. I think that the bodies concerned should raise them with the Schools Commission. That is the kind of evidence it is now seeking. 
-The most serious delays in the payment of tertiary allowances have been occurring in Victoria, to a lesser extent in New South Wales, and the Australian Capital Territory. The problem in Victoria, as one may well expect, has been due to the fact that all Victorian universities refused to release the examination results and the figures attained by students. This is not the position in other States or other areas, where figures are released to my Department on a confidential basis. It means that in Victoria a considerable exchange of correspondence takes place. To be eligible for a Commonwealth grant a student must have passed and must be enrolled in a university. The exchange of correspondence is one problem. I might say that in Victoria 32 000 applications have been received, 25 000 have been dealt with, 3400 are being dealt with and 3600 are waiting. Amongst those waiting are the applications of students who delayed applying until after the commencement of the university year. So the causes of the delay do not rest entirely with my Department. 
I think that in the Australian Capital Territory a serious underestimate of the staffing needed was made. There are 3 very large institutions of tertiary students in the Australian Capital Territory. There was also a change of staff so experienced staff was lost. What I have done is appoint in the Department a person who might be called an ombudsman with whom people may get in touch. He is a most experienced officer in this field. It is his job to take samplings of where there has been a delay or to accept the representations of persons who complain of a delay and see what he can do to accelerate the process. It is imperative that students in need be given urgent consideration. I might say that it has been an immense task and a heavy responsibility on the Department. In 3 States there are virtually no complaints, and even in Victoria, where there have been most complaints, the record is not as bad some people would think- 25 000 applications processed out of 32 000. 
-The late Government made arrangements with a number of schools under the States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Acts of 1968 and 1971. That Government followed a procedure whereby a school was informed of a notional amount to which it was entitled- let me say, for purposes of illustration, $80,000- given an advance, which may have been $40,000, and informed that pending decisions of a future parliament it might receive the rest of the money. This had the effect of inducing a good many schools to go into debt to build these libraries. The honourable member may remember that when Professor Karmel considered this matter he made recommendations concerning these past obligations amounting to $ 1.68m for science laboratories and $ 1.28m for libraries. In addition to that, there arose at that time the same factor as exists today, that is, that there might be an increase in the cost of the actual building. So the shortfall in funds was aggravated. 
The grants to which the honourable member has referred were made in circumstances in which we felt that a moral obligation was entered into and something was done to cover the shortfall in funds. The priorities committees of the various States have looked at these matters and have tried to give a priority in meeting the shortfalls according to need. For instance, I can recall one Christian Brothers college receiving $40,000 out of a shortfall amounting to $48,000, and another school receiving much less. So there has been a needs conception in trying to fill the gap. I think that what is involved is certain moral obligations which arise out of actions of the previous Government. It has been made perfectly clear, because of the proviso of the previous Government about a future decision of the Parliament, that there is no legal obligation on this Government in regard to these grants. But I am seriously concerned about cases in which schools were lured into going into debt and have to make considerable interest payments which are offsetting the value of grants being made by the Australian Government to them. The Schools Commission's obligation is to keep these matters under review. The priorities committees, even in meeting these shortfalls, have tended to give priority to those schools in greatest need. The previous system put a premium on granting funds to schools which could raise money themselves and were not in the greatest need for priority to obtain libraries. Something of that is reflected in this effort to meet the shortfall in funds. 
-Honourable members will recall that last December the Bill providing grants to the States for technical education passed through this House and that this funding commenced on 1 January this year. I received a deputation from technical teachers who claimed that they had not seen many of the results of the grants. Of course, one of the results is that attendance at technical colleges has been made free; that operated immediately the Bill was passed. I understand that 5 residential colleges are under construction. But some complaints have been received from the technical teachers that the courses of retraining for upgrading the quality of technical teaching staff have not yet got under way and that supplies are not forthcoming. I can only say that our power to investigate exactly what the States are doing depends upon the States having the opportunity to run the program for a year and, with technical colleges opening in March, a program which began on 1 January can hardly be investigated completely or condemned in April. I understand the States have drawn $21m of the $1 15m entitlement over the 2 years. AU I can say at the moment is that that is about the flow of finance that at this stage of a 2-year program we would expect. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the meeting of the 
Australian Education Council held in Perth during 17 and 18 April 1975. 
Pursuant to section 15 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-1973 I present a supplement to the annual report on the operation of that Act for 1973 relating to grants for recurrent expenditure in non-government schools. This statement relates to payments made in 1974 in respect of 1973. 
For the information of honourable members I present details of funds approved for payment, and of advances made to the States for expenditure on government and nongovernment schools under the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972-1974 and the States Grants (Schools) Act 1 973- 1 974 down to today. 
I was not moving that the papers be printed; I was just tabling them. 
-The answers to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) For universities, details by each university are contained in ' University Statistics, Part I ', Reference No. 13.7, published annually by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. For colleges of advanced education, details are not published by individual institution, and State aggregations are given in the annual publication, 'Colleges of Advanced Education', reference No. 13. 10, also published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
The Universities Commission has provided details of expected output of science graduates in 1975, 1976 and 1977 (Appendices 1,2 and 3). These estimates were prepared from material submitted by universities, and details are not available by discipline. Similar information is not available for colleges of advanced education. 
, (4) and (5) There is no information currently available on an Australia-wide basis to provide information on these issues. However I understand that one of the functions of the proposed Australian Science and Technology Council will be to look into questions such as these. I am also advised that steps to improve labour market information, which are now underway in the Department of Labour and Immigration should help in devising a co-ordinated approach to the son of problem being raised. 
The office of the Interim Committee for the Children's Commission has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) Under the 1973-74 Interim Pre-School and Child Care Services Program, the Australian Government provided the following advances to the States to 30 June 1974. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is set out in the following table:  (l) 
I suppose the most systematic campaign on this matter has been in the 'Australian Financial Review' which has published articles over a period of time declaring that the Priorities Review Staff has been looking at this matter and continuing to declare that in spite of denials. I draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that in the biennium 1974 and 1975 this Parliament has committed funds to the Australian Schools Commission. It has legislated for $780m to be spent up to 31 December. Last December we indexed that sum upwards by $79m to maintain its purchasing power. Until 31 December 1975 that schools program will continue. 
This is also the case with the triennial programs of the universities and the colleges of advanced education. We have enacted legislation to provide funds for technical education for the 2 years 1975 and 1976. This program is continuing. There is a provision for indexing to maintain the purchasing power of these triennial funds. After question time and the discussion of a matter of public importance today I will be introducing 2 Bills which are designed to maintain the purchasing power of the expenditure on colleges of advanced education and universities. 
The demands to cut this expenditure interest me. It seems to me that the comments, for instance, of the spokesman on 'Federal File' were completely superficial. There were vague statements that money was not getting through. All I can say is that all the weekends for the rest of my life could be occupied in going to Catholic schools alone to open libraries and extensions that are already being financed. If honourable members look at the terms of the Bills that I will introduce later today they will notice the number  of teaching hospitals, residences for students, the general facilities in all educational establishments that are actually being created. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to make adjustments to the approved triennial programs of universities to take account of cost variations. When the Australian Government assumed full responsibility for the funding of universities and abolished tuition fees, it entered into an arrangement with the universities providing that their forward triennial programs would be adjusted to take account of cost variations. Honourable members will recall that legislation for this purpose was enacted in the Budget sitting of the Parliament last year. The new Bill continues to preserve the original triennial programs of the universities and ensures that they are not prevented from completing these approved programs as a result of variations in costs. The actual variations incorporated in the Bill are based on movements in approved indexes prepared by the Universities Commission relating to variations in non-academic salaries and wages, non-salary costs, equipment and building costs. These cost variations are applied to the various components of the triennial program, namely, grants for general recurrent expenditure, special research, equipment, university buildings, student residences and teaching hospitals. The Government announced earlier its acceptance of the December 1974 report of the Academic Salaries Tribunal which recommended increases in salaries of academic staff at universities. The Bill makes provision for the payment of the necessary funds to universities to enable them to meet these new rates. 
During 1974 the Australian and Victorian governments agreed that a new university should be established at Geelong, to incorporate the 2 existing colleges of advanced education in that city in the manner proposed by the Universities 
Commission in its 'Report on the Proposal of the Government of Victoria for a Fourth University in Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo'. In December 1974 the Victorian Parliament passed an Act establishing the Deakin University at Geelong, and an Interim Council for the University was established on 1 January 1975. Deakin University will commence teaching in 1979. The authorities of the new University will be involved over the next few years in the planning and development of the university campus and preparation for the introduction of university programs. The Universities Commission will soon be reporting on the provision to be made for the Deakin University during the 1976-78 triennium. This Bill provides an initial recurrent grant for 1975 for Deakin University to enable it to commence its planning task; it also transfers to the University, for an Arts building, an amount of $720,000 which was previously provided for the State College of Victoria at Geelong. 
This measure is one of a regular series of measures which will need to be introduced to take account of variations in the cost of university and college programs. With the assumption of full financial responsibility by the Australian Government, the Bill constitutes the equivalent of a supply measure for the universities to enable them to sustain their operations. In summary, this Bill provides for an additional $104m to be made available in respect to the 1973-75 triennium to universities and affiliated residential colleges. I wish the Bill a speedy passage through the House. I apologise to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  for my failure to provide him with a copy of my second reading speech. I do not know how this oversight came about. I hope that it will not happen again. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I wish to answer the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  who has just addressed the Committee. It happened that in my first year as Minister I administered the legislation of our predecessors. I found that my predecessors had not under the Child Care Act granted any money. The legislation was enacted just before the McMahon Government fell. Therefore it was on the statute book, and I implemented it. We were then in a direct relationship with all sorts of child organisations that were setting up child care centres and they received direct grants from the Federal Government. 
What the honourable gentleman was saying in talking about bureaucracy I do not know. There was a Pre-School Interim Committee, like the Children's Commission, which consisted of people drawn from all over Australia. When the honourable member goes on to speak of 'bureaucracy', who is a bureaucrat? Surely the honourable member is going to say, if he wants to use that term as a term of abuse, that this is a Commonwealth civil servant? These commissions do not consist of Commonwealth civil servants. Their members are not Commonwealth employees. 
The statement has been made that the training of the personnel to handle these children is in the hands of the States. It is not. It is in the hands of kindergarten teachers colleges and it is in the hands of commissions of advanced education and other institutions which are funded through the States but with whom we have really a direct relationship. They suggest to the Federal Government the setting up of these kinds of courses in child care. The commissions of advanced education and other bodies, even universities commissions if we go into the question of research into the needs of children including their health needs, are financed directly from the Commonwealth. 
What disturbs me is the constant use of jargon about bureaucracy. We are using 5 commissions, some members of which are State employees, but practically none of whom are Commonwealth employees. They enter into a direct relationship with all sorts of organisations, including for instance, the Schools Commission which deals with non-government schools. While the mechanism of section 96 is used in the other commissions, it is not used in this respect because of the legislation of the former government. 
The situation about a State is that in fact it is being used as a post box. If we grant money to a Catholic school, the State government is simply being used as a post box. It does not have any administrative relationship in the grants. If the money did come from the application of section 96 in respect of these child care associations the State concerned would simply be being used as a post box except where the Minister has enacted Commonwealth financing of the State 's own preschool organisations just as we are enacting now Commonwealth financing for or assistance to State owned schools. 
What we have done is to assimilate this commission in its relationship with the States into the other commissions. Some of their grants are going to the State governments as governments and some of their grants are going to private organisations. The previous Government for years in its relationships with State schools and non-government schools worked in this way and this relationship that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is developing is nothing that at all involves all these problems of bureaucracy which the honourable member has discussed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill-is to provide supplementary grants for increases in costs which were not allowed for when the 1973-75 triennial capital and recurrent programs of colleges of advanced education and non-government teachers colleges were adopted. The supplementary grants are provided in accordance with established Government policy and comprise $33,952,600 to meet 1974 academic salaries increases, $2 1 , 205,400 to cover cost escalation in respect of other segments of the recurrent programs and a $23,605,200 provision for cost increases relating to college building projects. 
-In addition, the Government has approved a supplementary recurrent grant of $3,716,000 for the State College of Victoria's constituent colleges and central office and colleges of advanced education affiliated with the Victoria Institute of Colleges. Provision is made for this grant in the Bill. I heard that interjection from the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I have noted an advocacy for cuts in expenditure from the honourable gentleman's side of the chamber. I point out that State Premiers of the same political complexion are asking for guarantees that there should be no cuts. Certain new commitments approved by the Government are also provided for in theBill. An amount of $185,000 is included for the establishment, development and conduct of an associate diploma course in welfare studies at North Brisbane College of Advanced Education, Caulfield Institute of Technology and the South Australian Institute of Technology. Also, a grant of $140,000 for recurrent expenditure and $265,000 for capital expenditure is included to provide for the accelerated development of the Albury-Wodonga Study Centre of the Riverina College of Advanced Education in 1 975. 
As the foregoing amendments affect the programs detailed in the Schedules of the Act, the opportunity has been taken to include in the revised Schedules the changed names of some colleges and a number of intra and inter program transfers of funds which have been approved in terms of the Act. In summary, this Bill provides for an additional $83m to be made available in respect of the 1973-75 triennium to colleges of advanced education and approved nongovernment teachers colleges. I wish the Bill a speedy passage through the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
-A senior officer of my Department has been asked to investigate this question specifically in that institution. I have been to 2 universities and a college of advanced education and have interviewed students in regard to whom there has been a late payment of a tertiary allowance. I would say that what has happened is that there has been a tremendous increase in the obligations on the Department without a corresponding increase in staff and that this has led to some of these problems. When I had investigated the cases of students who came to me I found that sometimes they were not in fact eligible for grants. It does not follow that all the 60 students at the Ballarat Institute of Advanced Education will be eligible for a payment. Nevertheless, the situation has appeared to me to be serious. About 70 000 allowances are being paid and, I assume, about 7000 students are not being paid. I have asked for the utmost acceleration of the consideration of those 7000 cases and I have asked for a specific investigation of the cases in the institute which the honourable gentleman has mentioned. 
One of the problems in Victoria has been the difference in the procedure of some tertiary institutions in not releasing student results to the Department. So there is correspondence produced in that State which puts a much heavier load on the Department in finding out facts which in other States it can find out much more quickly. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee for the Review of the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, dated May 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There were 32 applications for 1 975 awards under the Aboriginal Overseas Study Awards Scheme. 
and (3) The following is a list of applicants who have been selected for awards with an indication of the purpose of each application. The applicant's home State is also indicated. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw the right honourable member's attention to my reply at page 2 180 of Hansard on 13May 1975. 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States  (Question No. 2044) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw the right honourable member's attention to my reply at page 1747 of Hansard on 16April 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I draw the right honourable member's attention to my reply at page 2178 of Hansard on 1 3 May 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The following schools within the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie have been declared disadvantaged: 
GovernmentBoulder Boulder Junior Broome District High Camballin Carnarvon High Coolgardie Coonana Cue 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The major purpose of this Bill is to provide for the abolition of certain types of fees payable by undergraduate students at the Australian National University. Soon after it came to office, the Government established a policy of further assisting students at tertiary institutions throughout Australia by removing the need to pay fees for tuition and matters related to tuition. While it has been the responsibility of the Universities Commission to effect this policy with respect to the majority of Australian universities, the Australian National University is, in contrast to the various State universities, constituted under an Act of the Australian Parliament and a special amendment to that Act is required to abolish tuition and tuition-type fees. 
In addition to this- the major purpose of the Bill - it is also intended to increase slightly the membership of the Council of the University, in order to provide for additional representation of staff and students on the University's governing body and, further, to amend certain terminology used in the principal Act so as to accord with modern usage. The Bill provides the Council of the University with a power to make statutes regarding only those kinds of fees which it is intended should remain payable by students. These are specified in section 4 of the Bill and include such fees as subscriptions to student organisations, sports unions, accommodation and other non-academic charges. Since it is intended that this policy should have effect from the commencement of the 1974 academic year, the Minister is empowered under section 5 of the Bill to direct that specified fees otherwise payable for the years 1974 and 1975 shall be deemed not to have been payable. 
The Council of the University last year approved, and I was pleased to confirm, the extension of its membership to include representation of the non-academic staff of the University, so that all groups within the University may now be represented in the governing of their institution. The second representative of the undergraduate student body provided in section 3 of the Bill brings to three the number of such representatives and is in keeping with the general increase in student numbers in the School of General Studies. Section 4 of the Bill provides for a clarification of the term 'matriculation' occurring in the principal Act, in order to allow for the increasing opportunities for entry to university and college study which enable intending tertiary students to apply to institutions on the basis of studies or experience not directly related to traditional matriculation qualifications gained at the end of formal secondary education. I wish the Bill a speedy passage through the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The major purpose of this Bill is to provide for the abolition of certain types of fees payable by undergraduate students at the Canberra College of Advanced Education, and it parallels amendments to be made to the Austraiian National University Act. Soon after it came to office, the Government established a policy of further assisting students at tertiary institutions throughout Australia by removing the need to pay fees for tuition and matters relating to tuition. While it has been the responsibility of the Commission on Advanced Education to effect this policy with respect to the majority of colleges of advanced education, the Canberra College is, unlike other colleges, constituted under an Act of the Australian Parliament and a special amendment to that Act is required to abolish tuition and tuition type fees. 
The Bill provides the Council of the College with a power to make statutes regarding only those kinds of fees which it is intended should remain payable by students. These are specified in clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill, and include such fees as subscriptions to student organisations, sports unions, accommodation and other nonacademic charges. Since it is intended that this policy should have effect from the commencement of the 1974 academic year, the Minister is empowered under clause 4 of the Bill to direct that specified fees otherwise payable for the years 1 974 and 1 975 shall be deemed not to have been payable. I wish the Bill a speedy passage through the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the National Seminar for Teacher Educators, held at Macquarie University, New South Wales, during the period 28-31 August 1974, entitled 'The Multi-cultural Society'. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Schools Commission is currently preparing its 1975 Report to the Government. The Report will contain financial recommendations in respect of primary and secondary education for the 1976-78 triennium. As part of the preparation for the Report the Commission has been receiving written submissions from individuals, organisations and authorities, and has also had oral hearings in all States and Territories. 
In order to obtain additional information on the educational needs of Aborigines the Commission invited a number of Aborigines to form an Aboriginal Consultative Group to meet with and advise the Commission. The members of the Group were nominated by the National Aboriginal Consultative Group following discussion between the Commission and the Departments of Education and Aboriginal Affairs. 
There is no specified term for membership of the Group which has had two meetings and in February 1975 presented an Interim Report to the Commission. The final Report is expected to be completed in July 1975. 
The Group was formed to allow Aborigines to come together to consider educational issues and to present a viewpoint to the Commission on: present policies and educational provision with respect to Aborigines; present patterns of administering funds for the education of Aborigines; specific matters the Group feel are of importance in respect to the education of Aborigines. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Universities) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
actual enrolments for 1970-74 attached 
I am unable, at the present time, to provide estimates of future enrolments due to the developing nature of the advanced education system. However, further information up to 1978 will be available when the Commission on Advanced Education's Fourth Report is tabled later this year. 
-The honourable gentleman will be aware that under the so-called Kangan funding over 2 years something like $115m is being made available for the States. I speak subject to correction but, as far as my recollection goes, so far $27m has been drawn. The honourable gentleman will recollect that the Kangan report ran into a whole series of delays. First of all, it was tabled in the House the day there was a double dissolution. Parliament, therefore, could not consider it until a new Parliament had been elected. Late last year, the Bill was passed. It can be said that the funding started in January this year. I am, therefore, not really in a position to say that I would censure the States for what has happened so far, as the scheme has been operating only briefly. I can tell the honourable gentleman that I did ask the  Chairman  of the Interim Committee on Technical and Further Education about this matter. He said that there has been a very considerable enhancement of the quality and the numbers of the States planning staff. The impression which I have received is that after their plans came forward the State schemes began to get traction. I think it would be true to say that the money has begun to produce results. The honourable gentleman, of course, will recognise that the all-over plan already has made technical and further education free. 
-There are three sorts of authorities that approach the Schools Commission. The first are the State governments, or the State departments of education. They approach the Schools Commission on behalf of the State schools. There is no direct relationship between the Schools Commission and any State schools. Secondly, there are the Catholic systemic schools. They have a systemic board within their State which is the authority to speak on their behalf. Thirdly, there are the independent schools- Catholic and non-Catholic and some having no religious affiliation- which make a direct approach to the Schools Commission as independent bodies. 
On the question of innovation grants, people with a brilliant educational idea make a direct approach to the Schools Commission, whether they come from the State schools sector or anywhere else. Some State governments have objected to teachers in State schools with an educational idea making a direct approach to the 
Schools Commission for the funding of that educational idea. My impression is that that objection by the State governments has never been persisted in. In point of fact, many educational projects within State schools have been funded directly from the Schools Commission. That is the existing position. I frequently receive correspondence from honourable members asking me what will happen about such and such a State school's library. The grant of money is made to the State governments. The priorities with which the State schools are funded by any State Minister are determined by the State Minister himself. Therefore, the expenditure of Federal funds which we intend to be additional to State funds is in the jurisdiction of the State Minister. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the States Grants (Secondary School Libraries) Act 1971,I present a statement of payments made in 1974 relating to this Act. 
I am not prepared to move that motion in connection with this report. It does not apply to the coming financial year. It has been indicated to me by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that, as it will not be in the Budget papers, it can be deferred. 
For the information of honourable members I present the second report of the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education on needs in technical and further education in Australia, together with a ministerial statement by me on the report. 
For the information of honourable members I present 2 reports prepared by  Mr N.  J. Thomson on means tests applying under schemes of student assistance entitled "The Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme- Means Test ' and 'Schemes of Assistance to School StudentsMeans Test'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the progress report on the bilingual education program in schools in the Northern Territory dated December 1 973. 
I do not know why the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  chooses to rise in the House and weave fantasies that connect this Bill with an investigation as to what post-secondary educational institutions should be put down in the north of Tasmania. Not only is that investigation taking place at the request of the Tasmanian Government but Professor 
Tannock of the Schools Commission is making a special investigation of the needs of nongovernment schools in the north of Tasmania. It is a region in certain educational difficulties. That has absolutely nothing to do with this Bill nor has it anything to do with a committee consisting of  Mr Ken  Jones of my Department, Professor Karmel and  Mr Swanson  about how to combine the Universitites Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. Their triennial funding analysis is over. The next time there will be a triennial funding recommendation will be 3 years hence. It will not be an action of the immediate future. The have done the work in regard to the next triennium and the question that is under investigation is the possible manner of the combination of the 2 Commissions which should be possible. 
I state in answer to the honourable gentleman that of course this must come before the House. It would involve a radical amendment of legislation. The legislation which the Parliament has considered has established a Universities Commission and a Commission on Advanced Education. If those commissions were to be turned into a single commission on universities and colleges of advanced education, the decision must necessarily be debated in this House. 
-There is investigation by  Mr Jones  and others how to effect it. They would be perfectly capable of coming to the conclusion that there were difficulties in the way. If the honourable gentleman would contain himself in patience and would see the immensity of the recommendations that will come down in triennial funding, he would realise that there are a great many anomalies as between the 2 commissions that have come into being which would probably necessitate a higher education body with perhaps a committee of the universities and another committee examining the needs of colleges of advanced education. I am not entitled to anticipate the decision. 
As the honourable member would recognise, we have just introduced a Bill in regard to that. He would also recognise immediately- this is the last point that I want to make on this matter- that there is a very fundamental difference. That is, we are totally funding universities and colleges of advanced education. We are being invited to increase our stake by the Technical and Further Education Commission in the funding of technical education. But up to the present, the major initiative in that field rests with the States. In those circumstances it is impossible to combine the 2 areas. There is no suggestion in the work of  Mr Jones,  Professor Karmel and  Mr Swanson  up to October that the Technical and Further Education Commission which is coming into being will be involved in that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I think it would be true to say that the Labor Government was elected on a program of means-tested tertiary allowances. At one stage we supplemented that program with a straightout emergency grant. I have received a report from a committee chaired by  Dr Williams  of the Western Australian Institute of Technology, which suggests changes in the level of funding and in the means test. I am not in a position to anticipate any Cabinet decisions that will be made on this scheme in the Budget context. So I ask the honourable gentleman to excuse me from giving him a definitive reply. However, the kind of suggestion that he has made is necessarily under consideration. Cabinet has several things to consider including an analysis of the whole structure of the means test by a reporter N. J. Thompson to make it fairer. That would be all that I would be able to tell the honourable gentleman at the present time. The question of tertiary allowances will be under consideration. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on Educational Turbulence among Australian Servicemen's Children by Lindsay Mackay and Brian Spicer of the Faculty of Education, Monash University. I might say that education turbulence means the disturbance of their educational careers, not misbehaviour. Due to the limited numbers available at this time, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
Pursuant to section 14(2) of the Schools Commission Act 1973, I present the report of the Schools Commission for the triennium 1976-1978 together with a statement on that report, and seek leave to have the text of the statement incorporated in Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the advice of the State Government or Catholic Education Authority concerned812 Government and 211 Catholic Systemic Schools had been declared disadvantaged at 21 May 1975. Each of those schools, after discussions involving staff, parents and, in some cases, students, submits proposals for projects to the 'Task Force ' or other such group appointed by the Government or Catholic Education Authority. Each Government and Catholic Education Authority has then submitted proposals to the Schools Commission. 
All proposals by Government and Catholic authorities for the use of recurrent funds have been approved and all declared schools have received supplementary resources through these means. All capital projects proposed by Government authorities and all except 7 of those proposed by the Board for Catholic Systemic Schools have been funded by the Schools Commission. The 7 capital projects submitted by the Catholic authorities but not yet funded are now the subject of further discussions with the authorities concerned. 
Under the Special Grants (Innovations) Program 3 450 submissions have been received. 
So far the Commission has recommended for funding 997 school level projects, 20 system level projects and 4 national level projects. To date 1 359 applications have been unsuccessful. The remainder comprise those still being assessed and those held in reserve should further funds become available as referred to in (5 ). 
All funds available to the Program have been committed although a surplus may develop if some offers of grants cannot be accepted. Some additional projects may therefore be funded later in the year. 
Projects not fully assessed will be held, if applicants agree, until it is known whether more funds will be available. Applications will not have to be re-submitted but some amendments may be required in the light of the delay which will now take place. Applicants will be invited to provide the Commission with revised information or alternatively the Commission's consultants will assist the applicant to prepare the necessary revision before a final assessment takes place. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$9,580,000. 
Since the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme was introduced in 1973, the level of benefits provided have been kept under regular review. As a result of an increase in the maximum Special Supplementary Allowance in 1975 from $304 to $450 the maximum level of assistance now available under the Scheme is $1150 per child. In addition to the increase in actual benefits the means test applicable to the Additional Boarding Allowance and Special Supplementary Allowance components of the Scheme have been progressively relaxed each year of the Scheme 's operation so that all or part of the benefits under these allowances are now available at much higher levels of family income than in the past. 
A further easing of the means tests may be obtained from a recent provision under which parents may choose to have their means-tested entitlements assessed on the average of their income for the past five years provided their tax liability has been so assessed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The main recommendations of the Schools Commission's triennial report for 1976-1978 are directed at giving equality of educational opportunity and raising the quality of education in government and non-government schools. 
To this end it set targets, created a schools recurrent resource index to determine the level of assistance needed by government systems and non-government schools and recommended funding levels within a framework of six specific programs. 
A more detailed summary of the Commission's major proposals is set out below. This summary is intended to give a quick glimpse at the main features of the Report. It need hardly be said that those who need precise details or a fuller story will have to go to the Report itself. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The current status of bodies appointed in the 1 973-74 financial year is set out below. Expenditure incurred on administrative costs is included. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Neither the Department of Education nor the Schools Commission has a record of any request for assistance on this matter. Australian Government funds which are provided through programs administered by the Schools Commission could be used by the Western Australian Education Department to purchase equipment but as with previous Government schemes of assistance there is no legal basis on which the Australian Government may assume detailed administrative control of grants to the State governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A number of the Acts of Parliament which I administer provide for Australian Government financial assistance, both capital and recurrent, to educational institutions. These Acts are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) A total of 1066 applications for General Buildings Grants have been received from non-government schools. The total value of all requests received was some $ 193.5m. 
946 applications for innovations grants have been received from non-government schools, amounting to a total value of$10,033,916. 
(a) Details of the General Building Grants Program are contained in the booklet published by the Schools Commission in December 1974 entitled 'Progress Report on General Building Grants Program'. The relevant details of grants offered to December 1974 to each of the 360 successful applicant non-government schools are given in pages 47 to 69. Details of a further 36 grants which have been approved since were contained in statements which I have previously supplied to each member. Further copies of the statements containing this information are available from the Schools Commission. 
In all 227 applications from non-government schools have been successful. Details of the grants which have been approved were contained in statements which I have previously supplied to each Member. Further copies of the schedules containing this information are available from the Schools Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Details of building grants to disadvantaged Catholic schools under the Disadvantaged Program are available in the Schools Commission publication, 'Progress Report on Disadvantaged Schools Program ' of December 1 974. 
Details of grants approved in Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania since the publication of that report are as follows: 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been two offers of capital assistance made to independent schools which have been totally rejected because the schools could not afford to raise their proportion of the total amount needed. 
Southport School, Southport, Queensland and Loreto Convent, Portland, Victoria. 
The total value of the offers made was $ 120,000. 
Southport School, Southport, Queensland, rejected a grant of $70,000 which was offered subject to the school meeting an estimated 50 per cent of the total cost of the project 
Loreto Convent, Portland, Victoria, rejected the grant of $50,000 which was offered subject to the school meeting an estimated 50 per cent of the total cost of the project. 
Education: Grants to Schools in Kalgoorlie Electorate  (Question No. 1973) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The Government primary schools within the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie which are receiving finance through the Schools Commission General Building Grants Program, and the amounts provided in 1974 and estimated to be provided in 1975 are: 
The non-government primary schools within the Electoral Division of Kalgoorlie which are receiving funds from the Schools Commission General Building Grants Program,  and the amounts provided in 1974 and estimated to be expended in 1975 are: 
The amounts are included in the tables above. 
NEAT Scheme (Question No. 1989) 
The answer to the honourable member's question on notice is as follows: 
The answer to this question involves programs and funding under the States Grants (Technical Training) Act 196S, States Grants (Technical Training) Act 1971 and in some instances funding has been continued under the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974. 
1 ) Yes. Under the States Grants (Technical Training) Act 1971 approval for programs was not given in any priority order. In its original submission under the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974 the Victorian Government accorded developments at Moorabbin and Dandenong Technical Colleges equal top priority in its capital works program. 
Yes. 
Yes. It was ranked fifth in the list of projects submitted. The Victorian Education Department advised that no funds were required in 1 974-75. 
Under the States Grants (Technical Training) Act 1971, $238,000 was advanced to the Victorian Government for development at the Dandenong Technical College. 
No capital funds have been advanced for this Technical College under the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974. 
For the information of honourable members I present the fourth triennial report on advanced education by the Commission on Advanced Education, together with a statement on that report. 
Pursuant to section 52 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service Act 1972-73 I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Teaching Service for 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My answer to Question No. 1803 appeared in Hansard (page 3535)on5 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2586 (Hansard, 5 June 1975, page 3545). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2789 (Hansard, 5 June 1975, page 3546/47). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is to be noted that of the categories listed under both sections (1) and (2) of the question, Victorian universities provide undergraduate education only for social workers. 
1 ) General recurrent grants to universities and colleges of advanced education are not specifically allocated by the tertiary commissions to individual courses and detailed expenditures by course are not therefore available. Because of the sharing of facilities, capital expenditure likewise is not available in such detailed dissections. 
However to increase further facilities for the training of social workers and social work planners beyond the level already provided in the 1973/75 triennial program of universities and colleges of advanced education, special supplementary grants have been allocated to colleges of advanced education in Victoria as follows; 1973 $95,000; 1974 $160,000; 1975 $185,000. 
As part of the same special program the University of Melbourne was allocated an additional $240,000 and Monash University $75,000. The grant to Monash University was later withdrawn following advice from the Vice-Chancellor of the University that it would not be possible to accelerate the introduction of the new course as proposed. 
A moderate growth is planned for these courses in Victorian colleges of advanced education during the 1976-78 triennium. 
La Trobe University proposes to introduce a course in social work beginning in 1 976. 
For further information on the matter, I would refer the honourable member to my answer to Parliamentary Question 2229. 
Publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia' (Question No. 2265) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following projects, which have received financial support through the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education are, in varying degrees, concerned with problems of identification of specific learning difficulties. Importantly, the projects are not concerned solely with methods of identification, in each case due emphasis has been given to the study of possible remedial treatment programs: 

 Mr R. C. G. Lea, Education Department, Victoria- 'Longitudinal reading study 1970-1974'. 

 Mr J. P. LeMaistre Windsor High School, N.S.W.-The ' WIMS ' project- structuring a learning environment consistent with the needs, interests and abilities of the nonacademic adolescent. 
Professor M. D. Neale, Monash University, Victoria, 'Predictive studies of learning disabilities'. 

 Dr C. Reye and Miss B. Le Gay Brereton, Spastic Centre of N.S.W.- 'The part played by visuo-motor skills and movement in the development of readiness for formal education'. 
Professor D. Spearritt, University of Sydney, N.S.W.- 'Identification and measurement of components of reading comprehension'. 

 Mr S. W. Woods, Western Australian Education Department 'The extent and cause of reading disability in the primary school'. 
The Schools Commission makes grants to the States for recurrent expenditure on primary and secondary education and the major impact of these grants has been the employment of additional teachers and specialist staff (including psychologists and guidance officers). 
The Schools Commission also makes grants to the States for special education teacher training courses. The aim of these courses is to allow teachers to improve their identification of individual learning problems and as a result enable them to prepare appropriate programs. 
However since recurrent expenditure and special education teacher training courses are general programs, it is not possible to attribute particular sums as being for persons employed in the identification of children with learning difficulties. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Interskola conferences are, I understand, oriented towards European countries. 
According to information contained in the report on the 1974 Interskola conference, the conference series was originated by  Mr I.  Findlay of the Aberdeen College of Education in Scotland in 1968. Interskola conferences have now taken place in Scotland (twice), Norway (twice), Sweden, Finland and Eire. I understand the 1975 conference is to be held in Bangor, North Wales. 
At the 1974 meeting, approximately 75 per cent of the delegates were Scottish. Other representatives were from Norway, Sweden, Wales and the Irish Republic. 
Financial assistance for the 1974 conference was provided by the Highlands and Islands Development Board and the British Council. 
My Department does not belong to Interskola and has not sent representatives to participate in Interskola conferences. Officers of my Department have contacted State Departments of Education on this matter and have been advised that no State Department has participated in Interskola activities. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Twenty-nine government and Catholic primary, secondary and technical schools in New South Wales and Victoria were included in the Inquiry. By agreement with the participating authorities, the individual schools will not be identified. 
The definition of a 'migrant' pupil varied from school to school. According to the definitions in use, 66.5 per cent of all pupils in these schools were 'migrants'. The proportion of migrant pupils in individual schools ranged from 28.6 per cent to 97.6 per cent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The following amounts have been paid to the States in 1974-75 under the provisions of the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act 1974: 
and (c) The Act does not require the States to submit, in respect of recurrent grants, details of the amounts they intend to expend in each technical and further education institution; nor would it be practicable for them to do so in relation to expenditure on salaries, the largest item of expenditure of recurrent grants. In respect of capital grants, payments are made to the States in connection with projects that have been approved by the Minister. The payments are in respect of actual expenditure made by the States on the approved projects or expenditure which they expect to make within a short time of the payment. The payments which have been made in 1974-75 in relation to major capital works are shown below. They are for State expenditures to complete projects which were commenced with funds provided under the States Grants (Technical Training) Acts; to undertake recently approved projects; and for the planning of projects to be undertaken in the near future. 
Further particulars of capital payments will be given in the statement to Parliament which the Act requires the Minister to make as soon as practicable after the end of the financial year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As none of the Victorian universities provide training for occupational therapists, speech therapists or physiotherapists, sections (b)-(d) of all parts of this question are not applicable to universities in Victoria. 
Enrolments at colleges of advanced education for 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
It should be noted that the question refers to technical schools in part 1 of the question and technical colleges in parts 2 and 3. 
1 ) In regard to the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Acts of 1968 and 1971 and the States Grants (Secondary Schools Libraries) Acts of 1 968 and 1 97 1 capital grants were made available for facilities in government secondary technical schools as well as government high schools but not for technical colleges. The State authorities are not required to provide detailed information on the amounts allocated to individual schools from the funds appropriated in the above Acts. Consequently, requests for information on the allocation of funds to particular schools must be directed to the Victorian Government. 
Amounts provided under the States Grants (Technical Training) Acts during the last five years are as detailed: 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the survey: Income and Expenditure Patterns of Australian Tertiary Students in 1974'. Due to the limited numbers available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
Pursuant to section 33 (2) of the Australian National University Act 1946-1973 I present the report of the Council of the Australian National University for the calendar year 1974. 
I suppose that I should begin my address by thanking the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for having mercy on my Department, the Department of Education. I listened very carefully to all his statements and I did not hear that he proposed any heavy cuts in expenditure on education. He made certain general observations about the lack of opportunities in education and he did that, of course, by ignoring reality. If people have lost their power to choose, how does it happen that there are 608 000 people undertaking technical education now compared with 400 000 people undertaking technical education when we came into office? Did those additional 208 000 people have a freedom of choice to undertake technical education as a result of the increased opportunities? Although the honourable gentleman suggests that the only way to give opportunities in education is by a form of tax concession which gives greater concessions to those in receipt of greater incomes, he failed to explain why making education free would not be a way of giving many people opportunities. 
When the honourable gentleman was referring to the amount of $1,350 which is the taxation exemption granted to all taxpayers and which reduces their taxation by $540, he stated that most people's education expenditure would be within that $1,350 and therefore there was no gain to them. This reminds me of the parable in the New Testament. It deals with the man who was engaged at 12 o'clock and who worked through the heat of the day and other man who was engaged late in the evening. The person whose education expenditure comes within the $1,350 exemption has not lost anything by the exemption of $1,350 being granted. The upper middle-class people for whom the honourable gentleman normally speaks would have the full $1,350 taken up in insurance, superannuation and matters like that. Then their educational expenditure would start to be taken into consideration. 
The honourable gentleman failed also honestly to admit that in granting a $200 concession instead of $150 concession for every young person in every form of education from kindergarten age through to the age of 25 years, the rebate from tax was increased from $150 to $200. So to begin with there is an actual $50 cut from tax. I want to congratulate the Leader of the Opposition for not repeating his normal story about a confidence trick in taxation. A taxation rebate is the reverse of a confidence trick. I have only to look at the sort of tax form with which we have been provided for years to see the position. When it deals with a statement of deductions for a spouse or for children, it says this: 'Maximum deduction for each dependant'. It goes on to state that that deduction is $364 for a spouse, $260 for a first child and $208 for a second child. During all the years in which I have spoken at trade union meetings I have found that when people have claimed the $364 deduction or the $208 deduction, they imagined that $364 or $208 was cut from their taxation. In point of fact, it may have been that some people were cutting from their taxation 364 times 5c, others 364 times 10c and still others 364 times 65c. That was the confidence trick. I do not say that governments introduced that as a confidence trick but it acted in that way. Most taxpayers misread it. Now when they claim $400 for a wife or $200 for a child they will receive the full $400 or $200 off their taxation. It will be a rebate. It will not be a rebate for one person of 364 times 65c and for another person 364 times 10c. 
I invite honourable gentlemen and particularly lady members of the Parliament to read very carefully the speech of the Leader of the Opposition because it contains an interesting passage. When he dealt with the $1,350 rebate which is allowed to all taxpayers, it could be imagined from what he said that that was the end of it; that is, that the deduction of $400 for the wife and $200 for each child were not entirely outside of the $1,350 rebate. Of course, it is quite easy to say that the Budget will solve inflation and to deal in futures. It is quite easy for the Leader of the Opposition to say that the Budget will not solve inflation and also to deal in futures. What was weak in the honourable gentleman's speech was the complete lack of analysis of the new taxation proposals. While professing that he had all sorts of cuts in expenditure to offer, making no comment on how small they were in relation to a $23,000m expenditure he was not willing to face the fact that the acceptance of the Matthews proposals would mean a $2.7 billion loss to revenue. That is the reason why in the careful study of these proposals the present Government did not adopt them. 
I think that the saddest part of the honourable gentleman's speech was his reference to the coal situation. If there is anything which represents irresponsibility it is the whole arrangement made by the Queensland Government in relation to coal. There is a complete failure on the part of that Government in its royalties policy to recognise that with the booming of the price of oil there has been an enormous increase in the value of coal. The royalties which it obtains from coal are minimal. The profits which are passing out of the country to overseas owners are very great indeed. The tax proposed by the Australian Government on the export of coal is in point of fact the exaction of a reasonable royalty for the benefit of the Australian community which we can do only through the imposition of an export tax but which the Queensland State Government could do through its royalties. 
The careful evasion by the Leader of the Opposition when talking about increases in Government expenditure and when talking about a spendthrift Government completely ignored every utterance that he has made when State governments have been pressing for increased expenditure. If they were Liberal Party State governments he supported them. The reimbursement to the State governments of Australia will rise from about $2.4 billion to $3.2 billion, an increase of about $800m. This makes possible their expenditure programs. It has some kind of a relationship to the employment levels because it was found that when State governments expenditures were cut or blocked unduly there was a rise in unemployment. There is a strange procedure on the part of the Leader of the Opposition. He puts Governments expenditure into some sort of a position as if it stayed, somehow or other, in the pocket of the Commonwealth Treasurer. If $406m of welfare housing or $306m of educational building is engaged in, as is provided for in this Budget, are there no private builders who are employed in these constructions? Do they not make any profit out of this? Does this have no relationship to their business activities? Is there not a transference of resources in any way at all to the private sector? Of course there is. 
The question which arises is: Are these expenditures justified? The matters upon which the Leader of the Opposition concentrated were, I suspect, not the matters upon which he would really concentrate if in power. He avoided speaking about cuts in any field where he felt there would be a backlash because the expenditure was popular. There was nothing about health. There was nothing about social services. There was nothing about the Liberal promise of abolishing the means test. There was nothing whatever about cuts in education. The Leader of the Opposition, on various occasions, such as during the speech which he made at the National Press Club luncheon, he has said some very mysterious and interesting things. He has said that a Liberal government would abolish compulsory equality in education. What on earth is the meaning of 'compulsory equality in education'? 
There are 2 philosophic spokesmen for the Liberal Party. At least, they attend Liberal Party conferences and make utterances on education. I refer to Professor James McAuley and Professor Leonie Kramer. Both are professors of English and Australian literature. Nobody knows of thenentry into Australian schools but they make utterances to Liberal Party conferences about what is happening in schools. But they make these statements and I suspect that that they are among the formulators of the policy of the Leader of the Opposition. But the interesting thing about their statements, like this statement about ending compulsory equality in education, is that they are purely literary statements. As I say, both of these people are professors in the literary field. The get hold of the Schools Commission report. They take two or three sentences in the Schools Commission report which are entirely egalitarian. Then, because as professors of literature they are very much at the mercy of the written word, they imagine that all over 
Australia in State departments of education and in schools people are poring over the report, looking at every little sentence and applying it. Canberra Grammar, for instance, has had $500,000 in capital and something like that amount in recurring grants over the last couple of years. Do honourable members imagine that people at that school spend all their time poring over the Schools Commission report and saying: 'That is our philosophy'? The Catholic education authorities who have received very substantial grants over the last couple of years- perhaps in excess of $220m- presumably run their schools on an essentially Catholic philosophy. At least Professor James McAuley had the logic to lash out at certain New South Wales Government proposals and actions, with 'Hear, hears' from the Liberal Party which, in this context, was forgetting that it was a State Liberal government to which the professor was referring. The grants which the Commonwealth makes remind me of the text in the Bible which states that the sun shines on the just and the unjust. I imagine that the Catholic schools continue with their philosophy and that each State government continues substantially with its philosophy. What we are making possible is the upgrading of defective educational facilities. 
I invite honourable members of the Liberal Party who have had these geniuses at their conferences to go through these speeches and see whether they have yet discovered that technical education exists, that technical faculties in their own universities exist, and whether the child with these sorts of gifts has a right to an education. I respect very much what these people say about scholarship, but not every child in education is going in for what one would call the kind of classical scholarship to which they are referring. Yet all these sorts of things are being advanced in an attempt, on the fringes, to belittle the Government's efforts in education, which are attempts to make possible the best of the thinking of the State governments and of the nongovernment sectors and also to encourage in the new Budget the educational expenditure of parents. 
As I have said, outside the amount of $1,350 there is an educational component in the allowance for every child except the first. In the educational allowances we have ended the old system of a differential whereby if the educational concession were $250, as is proposed in the Budget, somebody would get back 250 times 10c but somebody else would get back 250 times 65c. 'To him that hath more shall be given; from him that hath not shall be taken even that which he hath' was meant to be a spiritual principle, not a financial one. But the concessional system of deductions has made it a financial one. I congratulate the Treasurer on abolishing that by establishing a flat rate of 40c in the dollar concession on educational expenses for those whose educational expenditure is outside the amount of $1,350 which has been allowed for. 
The Leader of the Opposition attacked Government expenditure with generalisations. He burnt his fingers once over Medibank so it was like a ball flying outside the off stump- he shouldered arms and let it fly past. But in one of his radio announcements not so very long ago he said that Medibank at $ 1,400m was half the deficit, quite forgetting that he was thereby suggesting that, at the moment, health expenditure was nil and that Medibank came in and added $ 1,400m. Health expenditure at the moment is $ 1,000m and if he wants to use arguments against Medibank in relation to the deficit he has only $400m to play with and not $ 1 ,400m. 
There were the usual magnificent generalisations. The Leader of the Opposition was going to encourage the trade unions to do this, that and the other. There are of course something to be said about psychology. I think much of economics is dependent simply on the degree of discipline in the community. In that respect I agree with him. During the war, for instance, the Allied Works Council got all sorts of people working in Darwin without great additional wage incentives for them to move there. They were prepared to accept that discipline because there was a common concern about the prospect of invasion. But we will not get anybody to move to Darwin at the present time to work for the Darwin Reconstruction Commission because there is no comparable factor which would lead a person to go there unless induced by all sorts of incentives. It is quite clear, therefore, that it is the psychology or, if you like, the discipline in the community which makes certain things possible. 
After all, there is a miraculous cure of inflation to be seen in history. It is a quite remarkable thing. If we like to look at Weimar Germany back in the 1920s we find that the mark had reached the rate of 130 billion to the United States dollar. Within 3 months the German Government had got it to 4.2- not 4.2 billion but 4.2 units of the German mark to the United States dollar which was the pre-1914 situation. Of course there was complete annihilation of the existing currency. It was the concern that was felt in the community that caused such drastic action to be taken. Again I come back to the point that it was the degree of discipline in the German community which made so amazing a transformation possible in a short time, just as I think one can argue that between 1921 and 1923- in the post war collapse- it was the degree of indiscipline of the psychology of the community that put the mark to the rate of 130 billion to the dollar. 
Nothing in the Leader of the Opposition's speech- it was very largely a rodomontadewould induce the unity or discipline in the Aus.tralian community to solve anything. There were all sorts of partisan statements. There was a miraculous cutting of expenditure with very little of it defined, and the amount that was defined was comparatively insignificant. There were just postulates of vast confidence in the private sector, and the honourable gentleman had the total cooperation of the trade union movement instantly in wage restraint. All this is depicting everything happening as nicely as it is possible to happen. The speech passed as an analysis of the Budget. At least it got the Leader of the Opposition out of the difficulties of explaining the difference between concessional deductions and straight out rebates. That would have been one of the most interesting parts of his speech. He vaguely finally suggested that there was some support on the part of the Opposition to rebates. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of a survey conducted in 1973 by the Department of Education in conjunction with the Australian Union of Students, entitled:  Why Students Reject Tertiary Places. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:- 
The advertising budget for the Department of Education for 1 975-76 is$204,000. 
The major types of advertising covered by this amount are: 
Advertising for schemes of student assistance (publicity on the availability of assistance, eligibility, benefits, where to apply) and overseas schemes of awards and fellowships. 
Advertising in connection with the activities of the Canberra Technical College and the Interim A.C.T. Schools Authority. 
Advertising for departmental staff vacancies. 
Expenditure figures for the 5 years prior to 1975-76 are as follows: 
1970- 71-$46,000 
1971- 72-$38,100 
1972- 73-$70,800 
1973- 74-$96,200 
1974- 75-$179,700 
Financial Assistance by Department of Services  and Property  (Question No. 2682) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures projecting Ph.D. enrolments in Australian universities in future years are not available. However estimates of research higher degree enrolments at each university for the years 1 975 to 1978 are shown in Appendix J, Table 1, of the Universities Commission's Sixth Report, a copy of which has been made available to the Right Honourable Member 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purposes of this BUI are to make special long service leave provisions for those New South Wales and South Australian teachers who were employed in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory respectively in 1973 and who elected to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service before 1 January 1974; to enable provision to be made for the employment of teachers at technical colleges in the Aus.tralian Capital Territory; to alter the name of the Service to the Australian Teaching Service; and to make other amendments to the legislation arising from the provisions of enactments which have been made since the teaching service legislation was last amended. 
In relation to the long service leave conditions for the teachers who transferred from New South Wales and South Australia to the Teaching Service, the effect of the BUI will be to preserve the long service leave conditions which the teachers would have enjoyed under State legislation which was in force immediately prior to their joining the Teaching Service and, where appropriate, treatment of future service as if it were State service for the purpose of that legislation. While preserving the eligibility of the teachers for long service leave in accordance with the conditions which were operative under the appropriate State law at the time they joined the Teaching Service, the Bill permits them to have their long service leave entitlement assessed in accordance with the Australian Employees' Furlough Act, including future amendments to the latter Act. The Bill does not confer any eligibility for any improvements which might be brought about by changes in a State law which came into effect after the teachers concerned had joined the Teaching Service. The benefits which the Bill confers are limited to a particular group whose position was affected by the Australian Government's decision to accept direct responsibility for the provision of primary and secondary education in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory. It is similar to the legislation which was introduced in 1973 by which special superannuation arrangements were made for this group of teachers. 
A second purpose of the Bill is to allow the Commissioner of the Teaching Service to make available teachers to the technical colleges established in the Australian Capital Territory. Within the Australian Capital Territory, technical education has been provided by an arrangement between my Department and the New South Wales Department of Technical Education. In the main, the full-time technical teachers employed in the Territory have been employed by the New South Wales Department. As part of the decision to establish an Australian Capital Territory Technical and Further Education Authority, the Government has decided that the teaching staff of the technical colleges in the Territory should be employed under the Teaching Service legislation. The Bill makes provision for this by a variation to the definition of an Australian Government school and by providing that a prescribed authority may be one which is established for a public purpose in accordance with the provisions of an Act, regulations made under an Act, or a law of a Territory. 
In considering the other amendments necessary to the legislation, the Government has taken the opportunity of reviewing the title of the Teaching Service and, in accordance with its general policy, has decided to vary the title of the Teaching Service to the Australian Teaching Service. The Bill makes provision for this. Other changes introduced by this Bill relate to sections 8, 30 and 37 of the principal Act. These sections are being varied to take into account the provisions incorporated in the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-74. Division 5 of Part III is repealed to take into account the provisions of the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973. I believe this legislation should be given speedy passage by the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I have been subject to quite a number of attacks by the Victorian Minister for Education and, against my wont, I have decided to retaliate, drawing attention to the various activities of the Victorian Government in challenging grants to non-government schools. On Victoria the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education has devoted a whole section of its report to maintenance of effort. Page 201 of the Richardson report shows that Victoria has got its capital expenditure on technical education from its own resources down to the abject level of $728,000 in a year, which is what you might expect as not a very good performance from Tasmania. It is perfectly clear from the table on page 201, which give figures over 5 years, that the more money granted by the Commonwealth to Victoria through a policy which was begun under our predecessors for technical education capital expenditure, the less Victoria has spent out of its own resources, so that it is doubtful whether there was a net advantage out of Commonwealth activity at all. 
The Victorian Minister has complained about a cut of $9m from $5 8m to $49m in the capital grants for Victorian schools. He has omitted to mention an increase of $21m from $72m to $93m in recurring grants and he has omitted to mention the record level of 'as of right' reimbursement grants that Victoria has been given, which amount to an additional $184m. If Victoria is concerned at the loss of $8.8m in capital it can easily make it up out of its own 'as of right' grants. I would say this about  Mr Thompson:  He is totally opposed really to earmarked grants at all. He would like all of Victoria's funds not to be specified for education or for any other purpose but to be in the form of general grants such as those mentioned on page 19 of the Payments to the States and Local Government Authorities, the publication circulated with the Budget. This paper shows a record level for Victoria's own 'as of right' grants.  Mr Thompson  has no reason whatever to complain about a sharp increase in recurrent grants. The cut in capital expenditure is very largely due to the fact that the Government cannot accept the 4 education commissions making recommendations which compete with one another for building labour and building material. The other thing the Government finds difficulty in explaining to itself is why any independent school in Victoria can get about 50 per cent more for every $ 1 of capital expenditure than the Victorian Government can get by building through its Department of Public Works and notwithstanding its own experience when it went outside its own Department of Public Works to rebuild Princes Hill High School after it had been destroyed by a firebug. It was rebuilt in very short time. 
We want to assist the Victorian Government in every way possible to make the finest capital expenditure on its schools. Because the Australian Government has faced particular problems with building material and building equipment and the competing recommendations of 4 commissions which have recommended an expenditure of $6,026 billion on education we have asked the 4 commissions to look again. We are having a holding program while they do this. It is not a sign that we want to diminish support for Victorian education. We believe that the commissions got education out of politics. As far as this chamber is concerned I think they have done so; but we have this pseudo-constitutional confrontation with the States all the time, and  Mr Thompson  plays it as hard as ever. If he wants to play it hard, I propose to play it hard back. 
If the honourable gentleman were to look at page 45 of Budget Paper No. 7, Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities, he would see that the recurrent grants to Western Australia have been increased by 50 per cent, from $17m to $25.7m, so I am totally at a loss to understand how a State Minister can make such a statement. He must have reversed the years and thought that this year's grants were last year's and that last year's grants were this year's. In that case he would be somewhat near the amount of the cut as he calculated it. As it is, the grants have been increased by 50 per cent. The Minister has also said that the cut of capital, which is undoubted, from $15m to $1 lm for bis schools would mean a serious position for Western Australian education. Last year, that is 1974-75, the State was given a record reimbursement grant of $279m. This year the record is eclipsed, with a figure of $375m. If the Minister is worried about the loss of $4m in capital, I think $96m ought to give him a chance to replace that amount out of his own resources. But as the statement reads, when an assertion is made that a 50 per cent increase in the grants to the States for recurrent funds is a cut, I can only call it evil misrepresentation. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the panel to advise on arrangements for amalgamating the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education dated August 1975, together with a statement on that report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) This information is not held by Australian Government authorities. The honourable member may wish to approach the Victorian authorities direct. 
The certainties upon which the States are entitled to proceed are what this Parliament enacts. There have been no promises given to any of the States beyond the Karmel funding which was for $784m in the 2 academic years 1974 and 1975. That promise will be fulfilled to the letter up to 31 December 1975. Because the triennia have been deferred in the case of all 4 commissions, at the moment the only other definite matter upon which the States can proceed is what is contained in the Budget. As compared with the last financial year, in this Budget the recurrent grants to New South Wales for education rise from $84m to $122m. It is on recurrent grants that teachers might be paid and that most of the other activities apart from actual school building are conducted. I am flattered by the statements of  Sir Eric  Willis. Repeatedly he has said that Commonwealth grants represent no more than 10 per cent of New South Wales educational expenditure, that they represent merely the icing sugar on the cake. Now he is suggesting that although the icing sugar has got thicker it has caused a crisis down in the cake. 
New South Wales has a sovereign government and can decide how it spends its reimbursement, but its 'as of right' reimbursement has increased from a record $737m to a record $980m and it is perfectly clear from that State's utterances that the State Government does not intend to spend any of that extra $243m on education. The grants from the Commonwealth for technical and further education have seen a 44 per cent increase in capital grants and a 77 per cent increase in recurrent grants. I referred a while ago to the $784m of Karmel funds over 2 years. I draw to the attention of the House that the funds of the Schools Commission on this financial year are $47 lm. If that were projected at a biennial rate it would be $942m, which shows that the tempo of grants on top of the Karmel fund grants has increased. The New South Wales Government as a sovereign government need not spend any of its extra $243m on education, but that is its decision. If it likes to cling to its railway deficit of $170m that is its decision. If it likes to defer Medibank so that it has to meet greatly increased expenditure on health, that is its decision. 
When it projects all these decisions and alleges Federal cuts, clearly in the field of recurring grants the statements are quite untruthful. The Commonwealth Government has never been responsible for New South Wales teacher scholarships. We never have financed them. In the field of advanced education, in the last 6 months of this year recurring grants to New South Wales are much less than they will be in the first 6 months of next year. We realise that the States need to know what they are going to get beyond 30 June next year for the full academic year. Cabinet has given the instruction that they are to be informed as early as possible, and that will be very soon after the Treasurer returns from abroad. So they will have complete security of knowledge of what they are going to get through the academic year 1976. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of Education for 1974. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act 1967-70, I present the report of the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education for the year 1 January 1974 to 31 December 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1M4) Grants made to educational institutions in the electorate of Grey from 1 January 1974 to 3 1 July 1975 are listed below under each program area of the Schools Commission. 
GENERAL RECURRENT GRANTS 
In this financial year Commonwealth capital grants to the building of technical colleges are worth $24m, and the States are matching that sum with $14m. The matching grants vary. In the case of Victoria, the Commonwealth contribution is 90 per cent- that is, $7,400,000 as against $700,000-whereas in South Australia the contribution by the Australian Government is about 20 per cent; that is, $1,300,000 to $4,560,000. There is no agreement with the States about the maintenance of effort. 
The position is that the Technical and Further Education Commission in its report, which has not been adopted, did recommend that there should be an agreement with the States whereby the States maintained effort. There is no agreement to maintain effort. So the extraordinary position arises in which the smaller State of South Australia is putting in a contribution of $4.5m, or more than the contribution of $4m being put in by New South Wales, and nearly 7 times as much as the contribution being made by Victoria. The State of Victoria at present seems to be pursuing a policy whereby it leaves the bulk of the capital expenditure on technical education to the Federal Government. I would say that, at present, that is not contrary to any agreement, but it is clearly a weakness in the present form of Australian Government assistance to the States for technical education purposes whereby there is no agreement about the maintenance of a matching effort, the Commonwealth grants can become substitutionary rather than additional. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed that a grant of $20,907 was approved under the Australian Assistance Plan for payment through the Western Metropolitan Adelaide Region for Social Development to the Adelaide Migrant Action Committee. The grant was to provide for the expansion of a voluntary home English teaching program for migrants and related research and publicity. The greater part of it was to meet the cost of salaries of a research worker and two contact liaison officers. 
The Department of Social Security discussed the application with my Department on 22 April 1975 (in accordance with a procedure which requires prior consultation with respect to any project for funding under the Australian Assistance Plan which may have an education content). It was explained that, prior to the migrant education function being transferred to my Department, the Migrant Action Committee had sought funds for the salary of a full-time coordinator for its home-tutoring program from the Minister for Immigration and subsequently the Minister for Labor and Immigration and that the request has not been approved as such an appointment would normally be made to the State Department of Education as part of the co-ordinated home tutor scheme rather than to an organisation operating independently of it. The Committee had been further informed that as it was involved also in providing a community service generally, financial assistance might be available from the Department of Social Security. In these circumstances my Department saw no reason why a request by the Committee for a grant under the Australian Assistance Plan should not be considered. 
In principle, yes. The Department of Education assists the Committee in its home tutoring scheme by way of providing text books, home tutor kits and instruction of its tutors at the Migrant Education Centre, Adelaide. 
Expenditure by the Department of Education on the home tutor scheme in 1 974-75 was $4,284 for printing, $650 to voluntary organisations for administrative costs and some $35,000 reimbursed to the State Departments of Education for co-ordination and instructors ' salaries. 
Pursuant to section 59 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973-1974, I present a statement on financial assistance granted to each State through Schools Commission programs during the 1974 calendar year. 
I would mention that in relation to the inservice education program it has not been possible for all States to provide the information about all individual courses which is stipulated in section 59( 1 )(u). Nevertheless, this report overall is remarkably comprehensive and is a significant contribution to the provision of comprehensive information on educational programs for public use. 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated costs of salaries and running expenses for the 1 975-76 financial year of the authorities mentioned is as follows: 
A disadvantaged school is a school which is agreed by me and the State Minister to be disadvantaged. The whole intention of the Karmel report in its recommendation on special funding for disadvantaged schools was that those special sums of money should be additional. The Helen Street State School to which the honourable gentleman refers received about $49,000 under the disadvantaged schools program. It would be an abuse of the system by the State Government if that $49,000 were all that was spent. The intention is that the State Government should spend on a school the normal amount which it would spend and if a school is in a bad way it is assumed that the State Government would use either its own funds or our general funds to finance whatever is needed to be done and finance provided under the disadvantaged schools program is extra and compensatory. 
Although we are informed that in the case referred to by the honourable member finance provided under the disadvantaged schools program is being spent it is pretty clear that what is really happening is that this money is being used as a substitute for what would have been spent anyway and nothing additional or extra is being provided by the State Government. I would draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that the State of Victoria has already drawn $45m capital and $63m recurrent from the Karmel funds. I believe that if the State did not have any of its own funds to allocate to a disadvantaged school- and State governments' own as-of-right grants have been at record levels- it could have used some of the general grants. I am afraid that there was complete reluctance on the part of the State of Victoria to take part in any way in the disadvantaged schools program. This program can be defeated by a State government spending money provided by the disadvantaged schools program but not making available anything extra or additional by way of what would have been normal funding. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the establishment of the Australian Maritime College and to prepare the way for detailed planning and development of the College. Present education and training arrangements for the Australian maritime and fishing industries are quite inadequate. The gaps and deficiencies in existing facilities and courses have long been the subject of comment, culminating in the Summers Report which pointed to the need for a national, wellequipped maritime college. The Government accepts that there should be such a college and has already announced its decision to establish the college at Launceston. Steps are already under way to select a suitable site there. 
The Australian Maritime College will give courses for deck, engineer and radio officers and will have many of the characteristics of a college of advanced education; but it will also be concerned with the provision and co-ordination of courses at technical college level for ratings, fishing boat crew and others. It will be a new and unique institution in the education system of this country, and there are many details of its functions and governance which will call for careful planning. In this planning process, it will be particularly important to involve those who know the special needs involved- the relevant unions, the ship owners, the fishing industry- as well as educationists. For this reason the present Bill includes provision for an Interim Council for the College, which will make recommendations with respect to a wide range of matters relating to the establishment of the College, as set out in clause 7 of the Bill. The Interim Council's membership will include the range of interests I have just mentioned. 
Because planning for the College is still at such an early stage, the present Bill is, in essence, a temporary measure to provide the basis on which the fullscale planning and development can proceed, leading up to a more definitive Act at a later stage. The Bill is, in this sense, similar to the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act of 1970, which paved the way for the development of that Institute. There can be little need for me to elaborate on the need for maritime training or on its urgency. My colleagues, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  naturally have a special concern and interest in this; and recent maritime disasters have underlined for all of us the importance of providing the best possible training and education for personnel in the maritime area. There is a wide range of needs, from advanced navigational studies to short practical training courses, which can be met by the Australian Maritime College. With the establishment of this College, the Australian maritime and fishing industries can be said to have come of age. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
$30,000,000 was provided during the triennium 1972-74 for school library facilities including books. Government schools received $22,576,338 and $7,423,662 was allocated to non-government schools. 
The individual State governments expend their funds according to their own priorities under an overall approved program. 
During the financial year 1974-75 for non-government schools $1 19,856 was provided for books within the overall agreed program but decisions on titles or topics of the books purchased under the program are a responsibility of the school authorities. 
The June 1975 Schools Commission Report indicated that during 1 974 and the first months of 1 975 over forty-two pilot library building projects were approved for non-government schools including a large outer suburban school with a high percentage of migrant students and generally having very poor facilities which has been provided with a library and resources to the level recommended in 'Guidelines for Library Services in Primary Schools'. 
In June 1974 migrant education was transferred to my portfolio. I have not held discussions on the matter referred to with the Minister for Labor and Immigration but as Minister responsible for migrant education I recognise the arguments for increasing foreign language content not only in school libraries but in public and regional libraries generally. This is a broader issue however which goes beyond my immediate responsibility. Responsibility for library services generally is within the portfolio of the Special Minister of State. Library services in foreign languages are seen also as part of community education insofar as it relates to migrants, and this functionally is the responsibility of the Department of Social Security. The Prime Minister announced on 1 1 March 1975 the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. The Committee will report to the Special Minister of State. Its terms of reference include inquiry into specialised library services including service to migrants of all age groups. One of the problems which will need to be considered is of course the availability of foreign language books and their continuing supply and I understand that the Committee is giving attention also to this aspect. In the meantime my Department is maintaining contact with both the Committee of Inquiry and the Department of Social Security. 
-First of all, I should like to make a comment on the arrangements and then on a deputation which waited on me on this matter. In his announcement on 8 September concerning the relocation of the Schools Commission, together with other bodies, in AlburyWodonga the Prime Minister stated that a minimum of 12 months notice will be given to staff when the compulsory transfer of positions is involved. I should like to emphasise that positions and not necessarily people are involved. In the case of the Schools Commission positions in the organisation will be compulsorily transferred from Canberra to Albury-Wodonga at a time to be determined, probably towards the end of 1976. In relation to the staff occupying those positions a number of matters apply. Firstly, each staff member will be formally advised of the date of transfer of his or her position to AlburyWodonga. This advice will be given at least 12 months prior to the date of the transfer of the position. The members of the staff will have 6 months to decide whether they intend to transfer with the position. This period is intended to enable members of the staff and their families sufficient time to assess the personal, social, economic, educational and other implications of the transfer. The maximum assistance practicable will be provided to members of the staff by way of information on the conditions to apply with respect to a wide range of matters such as available housing and associated finance and rental provisions, settling in and settling out allowances, provisions for special leave and visits to Albury-Wodonga, available educational and cultural facilities and so on. 
Consultative machinery involving representatives of the authorities being transferred, staff associations, the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation and the Public Service Board has already been established to consider the matters already mentioned. At the end of this 6 months members of the staff not wishing to move to Albury-Wodonga will be transferred to the unattached list. They will retain their salary classifications and will continue to perform the duties of their present substantive positions until the appointment of a replacement or the transfer of the position. During the second 6-month period members of the staff have the opportunity to secure another position. Assistance which might be given to members of the staff seeking alternative employment in their present location is being studied and special consideration may be necessary in cases such as employees who elect not to move because of closeness to retiring age. 
I would say to the right honourable gentleman that those who waited on me indicated that it was certain that two-thirds of the officers will not be transferring because they find the problems of leaving their houses, leaving their associations, a wife leaving her employment and so on too great. A new matter has arisen which does concern me about this. Many of them, of course, are having children educated at the Australian National University and it was envisaged that the university of Albury-Wodonga would be being developed. In the slowing of the rate of educational development associated with the Budget the Albury-Wodonga university is not proceeding immediately and this has created for a good many people a problem which I think needs re-examination. A second factor is that the Hawker and Phillip secondary colleges will be opening next year. They are an advanced form of secondary education that many of these employees desire their children to enter and there is no equivalent in Albury-Wodonga, so some of the things that were once in phase and in coordination have ceased to be so. I have had close discussion with the deputation which came to see me and I do want a re-examination made of these matters. I am not in a position to give an immediate reply. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Inquiry into Schools of High Migrant Density. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Social Security has informed me that  Ms Learner  was appointed on 27 May 1975 as a consultant to the Social Welfare Commission.  Her  appointment is for a period of two years to establish whether there is a need for a body such as a National Council for Social Welfare Education in Australia to co-ordinate welfare education. If the need for such a body is established,  Ms Learner  will be asked to make recommendations concerning the structure, composition and functions of the body.  Ms Learner  has not been engaged to provide advice on the course content of education programs. I have written to the Minister for Social Security to request that  Ms Learner  consult with the appropriate education authorities. 
The kind of activity referred to in the question is not being pursued by the Curriculum Development Centre. The Centre's chief concern is the development of curriculum and educational materials for use in schools. 
Department of the Special Minister of State: Advertising Budget (Question No. 2863) 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement relating to funds for the Education Commission for the 1976 calendar year. 
-Some weeks ago I tabled in the Parliament a report of the financial assistance granted to each State in 1974, the report of the Schools Commission as is required by section 59 of the States Grants (Schools) Act 1973-74. 1 was amazed to see  Sir Eric  Willis's statement that it was impossible to dissect Commonwealth grants from ordinary State expenditure and determine that in any specific school a certain amount of money assigned to that school came from the Australian Government. All I can say is that  Sir Eric  Willis is unaware of the information which his officers are supplying to the Schools Commission. If he is correct in saying that the honourable member for Robertson is incorrect then his officers are misinforming this Parliament. 
I am going to be quite specific on this matter. The honourable member for Robertson said that the Avoca Beach Primary School had had $10,000 worth of capital construction and that the Caves Beach Primary School had received $89,600 from the Commonwealth. On page 6 of this report of the financial assistance granted to each State, it is stated that that is what the Schools Commission was informed by New South Wales officers. The honourable member also said that the Gosford High School and 
Henry Kendall High School had received respectively $86,500 and $62,967 for capital construction. That is what is on page 9 of this report. He said that at Kanwal Primary School and at Killarney Vale Primary School there were respectively $387,107 and $324,388 of Australian Government money spent on construction. That is stated on page 128 of this report. He said that Umina Primary School had received $136,398, as stated on page 8, Woy Woy High School $274,280, as stated on page 10, and Wyong High School, 2 grants of $20,000, as stated on pages 10 and 129. Those are the last schools I want to mention. The information provided by the honourable gentleman to the newspaper and repudiated by  Sir Eric  Willis was the information provided to the Schools Commission about those specific schools by officers of the New South Wales Department of Education as they are required by law to do. Therefore I am going to write to the editor of the newspaper, sending him this report and drawing his attention to the passages concerned. I also am going to write to  Sir Eric  Willis about the misinformation that he provided in rebuking the honourable member for making public the information which  Sir Eric  's own Department has given. 
The only other thing I want to say about this is that Australian Government funds to the schools in 1974 and 1975 amounted to $784m. A statement which I will be tabling shows that next year the schools will receive $465.2m.  Sir Eric  Willis is quite entitled to the view that this is not enough. All I want to say is that the $784m and the $465.2m are additional to the efforts of State governments and of the non-government education authorities. Therefore, every cent of it ought to represent betterment. The constant misrepresentation of these sums of money by State Ministers may sooner or later convince the Treasury that the effort is not worth while. 
-The persistent line of discussion of the Victorian Minister for Education is to suggest that if a report is made to this Parliament, as was the Schools Commission report, he is entitled to receive all of the money referred to in the report as assigned to Victoria and that there is some compulsion on the Australian Parliament to adopt the report. The only expenditures that  Mr Thompson  was entitled to assume he could make out of Federal grants were from the funds for the biennium recommended by Professor Karmel and enacted by this Parliament. Of the $784m the Victorian State schools received $81m in capital and $69m in recurrent funds.  His  reference to $9.2m being made available in the first 6 months of this coming year seems to me to be a kind of mystic suggestion. In the cash flow of funds the initial payments for capital will usually be about one-third of the final amount. In point of fact, Victorian State schools will be receiving $29,250,000 in the calendar year 1976. In addition recurrent funds for Victorian State schools will be about $56m, making $85m in all. In this present calendar year and the last calendar year, therefore, Victoria received $ 1 50m for State schools and in the coming year it will receive $85m. 
I am completely at a loss to know how an responsible Minister of the Crown can somehow or other call a grant additional to the expenditure of the State a cut. What the Victorian Minister means is that he expected to get more if the Federal Parliament had adopted in its full force the report of the Schools Commission. What he is getting is an addition to the State's effort. He is getting something in the vicinity of $235m over 3 years for his State schools as an addition to the State's effort. His comments on this as a cut is an example of skilful misrepresentation to the electorate and to the public of Victoria. 
I regret that I cannot give the honourable gentleman details of capital expenditure by all States over the last few years, but they are set out in the Technical and Further Education Committee report. I want to make this observation on capital expenditure in Victoria. A few years back out of its own resources it spent $ 1 ,960,000. In the next year expenditure was cut to $1,400,000. Next year it was cut to $728,000. Over that same period Commonwealth grants for technical education buildings rose from $3.5m to $6.5m and they have risen further in the current Budget. It is a fact that the greater the grant the Commonwealth gives to Victoria for the building of technical colleges the lower is the State's expenditure out of its own resources. If the Victorian State Government set out deliberately to offset the value of Commonwealth grants for improving technical education in Victoria by way of constructing buildings it would do, I think, exactly what it is doing. 
Pursuant to section 15 of the Universities Commission Act 1959-1974 I present the Universities Commission's recommendations for 1976 together with a statement by me relating to those recommendations. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of the recommendations have been placed in the Parliamentary Library, 
In reply to the honourable gentleman I would draw his attention to the speech in which the honourable gentleman who is now the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  originally introduced this form of legislation when he said that it was desired to have one teaching service available for the use of the Australian Government anywhere in outside Territories such as the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and Christmas Island, sometimes anywhere in Australia, in the Territories and in Papua New Guinea. I do not want fragmented names with an overseas teaching service and a territorial teaching service. We think that the name Australian Teaching Service is appropriate because we agree with the Leader of the Opposition when he was the Minister for Education when he said that the name should imply a unified teaching service. I have explained the objections to the word ' Commonwealth '. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Wilson's  amendment) stand part of the clause. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Schools Commission Act 1973 I present the Schools Commission report for 1976 together with a statement by me relating to that report. I also present a short statement by me on the Government's funding policy for the 4 national education commissions. 
Motion (by  Mr Beazley)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
In the biennium 1974 and 1975 the Australian Government grants to nongovernment schools amounted to about $233m. The grants proposed by the Schools Commission for the one year 1976 amount to $157m plus about $9m in the 2 Territories, making $ 166m in all. The honourable gentleman asked me how the per capita grants- I take it that that is what he meant- compare with those by the States. For the coming year only 4 States have declared what their grants will be. New South Wales might be taken as a normative State. It will be granting $108 to primary students and $180 to secondary students in non-government schools in a flat rate grant. As the honourable gentleman knows, the proposals of the Schools Commission for next year virtually make a triennium of the Schools Commission grants of 1974 and 1975. However, there is a slight modification accepted by the Government which brings it back into line with existing policies upgraded. 
There are 6 levels. Four of the 6 levels, which comprise 85 per cent of the non-government schools, exceed the grants proposed by New South Wales. In level 3 the primary grant is $ 1 27 and the secondary grant is $199. In level 4 the primary grant is $156 and the secondary grant is $246. In level 5 the primary grant is $ 1 84 and the secondary grant is $292. In level 6 the primary grant is $2 12 and the secondary grant is $338 per pupil. Levels 1 and 2 comprise the schools with greater resources, or 1 5 per cent of the schools. In level 1 the primary grant is $71 and the secondary grant is $106. In level 2 the primary grant is $99 and the secondary grant is $153. Therefore, in 85 per cent of the cases of non-government schools the proposed grants of the Australian Government will exceed those of the New South Wales Government very considerably. 
in reply- I want to assure the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  that our removal of the word 'Commonwealth' is not based on the same objection as Queen Victoria had when she was opposed to the Commonwealth of Australia being called the Commonwealth of Australia because the word 'Commonwealth' was associated with Oliver Cromwell and the Ironsides. It might not be a bad educational name to have considering that Oliver Cromwell tried to put up an Eton and a Harrow in every county and to establish a system of universities which did not in fact come into being in England until 300 years after his death. But that is not the point. A strange amendment proposed by the Opposition would eliminate these words: 'Australian Government School' means a school conducted by Australia, by the Administration of a Territory or by a prescribed authority, and includes a school conducted in Papua New Guinea by a prescribed institution. 
What is still at this moment called the Commonwealth Teaching Service provides 250 teachers on secondment in Papua New Guinea. Some of them will staff purely expatriate schools. Most of them are staffing indigenous schools, but the Government of Papua New Guinea appears to have indicated that it would like purely Australian schools to continue. 
There is a problem about the word 'Commonwealth' in the world now and that is its association with the Commonwealth of Nations. Very clearly, with Papua New Guinea in the Commonwealth it is going to be confusing to have Commonwealth schools instead of Australian schools in Papua New Guinea, because the people in Papua New Guinea think of us as Australia; they do not think of us as the Commonwealth. By and large, the feeling is that Australia should now be called Australia. Canada does not call itself a dominion any more, although it may constitutionally be the Dominion of Canada. New Zealand does not call itself a dominion any more. I think these words have been superseded in modern usage. They once implied dominion status; they once implied colonial status. The general policy of the Government is to eliminate the word 'Commonwealth' and substitute the word 'Australian'. If those in the Teaching Service Uke to continue to call themselves the Commonwealth Teachers Union or the Commonwealth teaching profession, that is their affair, but the name that has been chosen by the Government for the reasons that I have set out is Australian Teaching Service. I therefore cannot accept the amendments that are designed to reinstate the word 'Commonwealth'. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clause 1. 
This Act may be cited as the Teaching Service Act 1975. 
The Commonwealth Teaching Service Act 1972- 1 973 * is in this Act referred to as the Principal Act. 
The Principal Act, as amended by this Act, may be cited as the "Teaching Service Act 1972-1975. 
in reply- I think some substantial points in the speech of the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  need to be answered. The right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  has been labouring to prove who is the most ancient mariner when it comes to advocating a maritime college. I am one of those who regret that the Liberal Party did not regard him as the ancient mariner but merely as the albatross around its neck and removed him from leadership. The testimonies that he was giving himself for the appreciation in Tasmania for the Liberal Party, of course, sit very ill on the results of the election in 1972 following which the Liberal Party was without a Tasmanian seat in this Parliament. The former Liberal member for Denison departed from the State saying that it was a Labor cesspool. So there are some strange features about that. 
First of all, I would like to answer the point raised by the honourable member for Bass and the right honourable member for Bruce, who both spoke of the Maritime College as being a college of advanced education. It is not going to be a college of advanced education in the sense of one that is conducted by the State in Tasmania. It is going to be drawing its students from all over Australia, so the decisions in education in this College will not be vested in the Tasmanian Government or in institutions of the Tasmanian Government as they are in a college of advanced education in Tasmania. I know that the Tasmanian Government regards them as autonomous but the Tasmanian Government is primarily concerned about the recruitment of students from that State to its higher educational institutions. This College will not be recruiting its students from Tasmania. It will be recruiting them from all over Australia so it has aspects which will be quite unique. It will be a national institution. The right honourable member for Bruce had no recognition of that in any part of his speech. I think the comments that there was a retroactive inspiration from something he said in March 1974 to the appointment of this Commission in September 1 973 are quite childish. To tell us that we delayed the establishment of the institution for 17 months when our predecessors did not establish it in 23 years is even more childish. 
The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  mentioned the need for a training vessel. I should like to inform the honourable member that that is an inherent part of the intentions for the Maritime College, as outlined by the Summers report, and is currently being developed further by interdepartmental planning. We recognise that that is essential. At today's meeting between the Maritime College interdepartmental committee and the merchant marine industry, that is the unions and the employers, there was a general acceptance that Launceston is a feasible site for an effective Maritime College and that the unions and the employers will co-operate in the further planning of the College. I should like to say one other thing about the discovery of a likely site in Tasmania. I cannot recall the actual date of my visit to Tasmania well over a year before the Bass byelection was dreamt of, but on television and in the Press I spoke about the need for this institution to be in Tasmania. I will not say that a Government decision caused it to be sited there. It is an idea which has exactly the same status as the ideas of the Liberal Party that were mentioned as coming later. The action of establishment is what counts. 
The honourable member for Gippsland mentioned the interim council's function of advising on the site of the College. That relates only to the detailed determination of a precise site at Launceston.. The general decision that Launceston is the site is not in question. The honourable member for Gippsland mentioned also the question of the limitations of the education facilities now available at Launceston. It is not intended that all the educational requirements of the Maritime College will be met by the existing facilities. The Maritime College can be expected to make use of those science, engineering and other units that are readily available on the Newnham campus of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education and to make its own arrangements for whatever other educational units are appropriate. The Newnham campus of the College of Advanced Education has many courses and facilities that could be extremely useful to the Maritime College. I would say also that the technical education facilities at Launceston, if they are to service this College, will obviously have to be upgraded. 
The whole question of the available education facilities in Launceston is currently under consideration by the Karmel committee of inquiry into post-secondary education in Tasmania. I toured the north of Tasmania and was concerned at something that I had not known previously which is the vehemence with which the north and north-west of Tasmania think that educational facilities are concentrated in the south. It was for that reason that the committee was established to consider the distribution of tertiary and post-secondary educational facilities in Tasmania. It is a top level committee of inquiry which is proceeding. The point is that it will now take into account in its decision on the Maritime College how any facilities which can serve the Maritime College will need to be upgraded. So a number of co-ordinated inquiries are taking place at the same time. I gather that this measure is welcomed by both sides of the House and I will not reply at any greater lenght. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3 1 10  (Hansard,  1 October 1975, page 1598). 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee on Technical and Further Education for the period 1 July 1975 to 31 December 1976 together with an accompanying statement. 
I claim to have been misrepresented. On page 3 of today's  Australian  there is an article reporting the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  the Federal Opposition's spokesman on immigration, as saying that a Federal Government report critical of migrant education had been virtually suppressed and quoting the migrant newspaper  La Fiamma  as describing the report as 'the gravest scandal in migrant history'. On 13 October 1975  La Fiamma  ran an article on page 1 about the report of the inquiry into schools of high migrant density which I tabled in the House on 7 Octoberfor the information of the honourable member for Warringah, the 'suppressed' report. It was tabled in the Senate by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The article in  La Fiamma  appears to have been based upon my Press release of the same date, 7 October. It drew attention to the fact that in the last few years increasing evidence has become available on the educational plight of immigrant children and that increasing pressure has been applied to have the situation remedied. 
There was also an accompanying editorial which referred to the situation described in the report as 'the gravest scandal in migrant history'. There was no suggestion in either the article or the editorial that the Federal Government or its policies were to blame. It is worth noting that, by arrangement, the report was tabled in the New South Wales Parliament by  Sir Eric  Willis and in the Victorian Parliament by  Mr Thompson.  If anything, the report reflects upon State governments. Charges of the suppression of the report are clearly unfounded. Put together, copies of the report, the article in the  Australian  and my Press  release of 7 October will show that there has been a complete misrepresentation. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Australian Council on Awards in Advanced Education for 1974. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to set up, in place of the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education, a Teriary Education Commission assisted by 2 Councils which are to advise the Government on the development and support of higher education in Australia. The establishment of a Tertiary Education Commission has been a possibility for a number of years, but the importance of greater co-ordination has recently become more apparent. Since 1965, when the advisory body on advanced education was set up in parallel to the Universities Commission, a number of significant changes have taken place. The panel, whose recommendations the Government has accepted in deciding to establish the Tertiary Commission, has pointed out these factors: There has been very considerable growth in tertiary education, particularly in the advanced education sector, which has matured and is now comparable with the universities sector in terms of the resources committed to it; teacher education has been accepted within the advanced education program; tuition fees have been abolished; and the Australian Government has taken on full financial responsibility for tertiary education. A great deal of consultation takes place between the 2 existing commissions, but their formal responsibilities remain separate, and no amount of consultation can guarantee the degree of overall co-ordination and rationalisation in tertiary education programs which are now clearly desirable. 
The panel in its report has made a valuable attempt to delineate the main distinctions between universities and colleges. These include different patterns of legal basis, relation to Government, vocational or academic emphasis, degree of research commitment, and the nature of courses provided. Even so, these distinctions are clearly very difficult to define with precision. Many characteristics are shared across the 2 groups of institutions, just as there is considerable variation within each group in the size and activities of particular institutions, and demarcation is sometimes blurred. A number of different views were put to the panel about the nature of the advisory arrangements which should be established. The main alternatives are set out in the panel's report. In general, the proponents of the various possible systems were agreed on the importance of giving due recognition to the characteristics of existing institutions and maintaining appropriate distinctions in any process of rationalisation.  (Quorum formed) 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Before calling the Minister I would remind honourable members that when a quorum is called for no member may leave the precincts of the chamber. This has happened on 2 occasions in respect of members of the Opposition in recent weeks. I ask that the Whips remind honourable members of that duty. 
-So far as I know, the Senate has not accepted, rejected or requested anything in relation to the Budget. What it has claimed is the right to dissolve the House of Representatives. But having regard to the question asked by the honourable gentleman, I would say that by about the middle of next month all pay of teachers in the Northern Territory, all expenses to move teachers in the Northern Territory from their schools to their homes, the allowances of 1 3 000 Aboriginal children, the expenses to move Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory to their homes or to feed them if they are not sent to their homes, a double allowance in the middle of November for 73 000 tertiary students. 2000 post-graduate students and quite a number of isolated children will not be paid. The position in relation to certain Catholicschools in the Territories is that capital funds that were to be granted will not be able to be granted until the Budget is through. I do not know what attitude the Senate will take to the Schools Commission recommended funds of S465m. It will be remembered that when the Karmel recommended funds were before the Senate they were rejected by the Senate. The Country Party changed its attitude and so they got through the Senate, but at all stages the Liberal Party voted against $700m for schools, so it might be assumed that it will vote against $465m for schools. But that remains to be seen. 
Pursuant to section 5 of the States Grants (Science Laboratories) Act 1971 I present a statement of payments authorised under section 3 of the Act during 1 973-74. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows- 
I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question 3304. (Hansard 15 October 1975, page 2 188). 
The Senate has not accepted the Budget; it has not rejected the Budget; and it has not requested any amendment to the Budget. The Constitution gives the Senate those 3 options. It has exercised none of them. It has refused to consider the Budget except to say in its resolution that it will pass the Budget. Therefore it affirms that the Budget is worth passing. However, it attaches a condition to passing the Budget, namely that the House of Representatives should be dissolved at the behest of the Senate. 
Let us look at the political operations that underlie this action. It is supposed, according to the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  to have been taken after surveying the great issues on which he declares the Government guilty. Of course, any Opposition will declare the government guilty on any day of the week. On such a statement as that we could have an election every month. The Opposition has sounded a whole lot of things politically. For instance it is concerned with the results of the Gallup polls. If the state of the gallup polls is not favourable to the Opposition, of course, the Opposition in the Senate would not monkey with the Budget. The Opposition wants to know the answer to such questions as: 'What will our supporters say if we reject Supply?' So the Opposition takes another market survey designed to find out what its supporters would say if it were to reject Supply. The Opposition, having received what it considers to be favourable answers to all those questions, then discovers that it has principles, one of which is to command the House of Representatives to dissolve itself. But the House of Representatives will not dissolve itself. 
Behind this action is a fear that there is to be a half Senate election. Honourable gentlemen opposite know that those people who have been stuffed into the Senate in lieu of deceased or resigned Labor senators will not hold their seats. They have a pretty shrewd suspicion that they might not do very well in the elections for senators from the Territories. Therefore, there is the possibility that they might lose control of the Senate and not be in a position to go on as they have been going on with a sustained campaign of obstruction to legislation of a kind that has never been seen before in Australia 's history. 
-Do not talk about the worst government. The honourable member is one of the people who rejected the provision of $700m for Australian schools. Do not give us any stuff about thinking that it has to be bad legislation that the Senate is rejecting. It is not bad legislation which the Senate is rejecting. The Senate has declared that it will pass this Budget if the House of Representatives obliges by dissolving itself. The House of Representatives will not be dissolved. The Senate can, if it likes, obstruct all the Supply of the country, but the House of Representatives will not be dissolved. If the Opposition is so convinced that it has public opinion on its side, why are the Liberal and Country Party Premiers falling over themselves to say that if the constitutional half Senate election is held a bit early- it is quite a constitutional time to do so- they will not issue the writs? The reason is that honourable members opposite are dead scared that if the Senate goes to the people on the issue of rejecting Supply their control of the Senate will be prejudiced. They do not believe that the people will uphold the right of the Senate to reject Supply. If there is to be any public determination of issues that is the one that should be determined. 
I stress that the Senate has carried out none of the constitutional functions which are legitimately reposed in it by the Constitution. It is not putting an amendment into the Budget; it is expressing an opinion about the Government. It is a straight assertion that the Government in the House of Representatives is to be dependent upon confidence in the Senate. Honourable members opposite do not say: 'We think your Budget is indefensible and we will not pass it.' On the contrary, they say: 'We will pass the Budget. We think, purely tactically in terms of the election, that the noble Senate will pass the Budget so that we do not have the odium of obstructing the country while deciding when we think there should be an election.' Honourable members opposite ought to beware of tampering with these procedures in this way. There have been occasions in the past on which lower 
Houses have refused to be dissolved by kings or by upper Houses- and this one will not be dissolved. 
Honourable members opposite normally speak about the Senate as being democratically elected. So it is. In 2 half terms the Senate is democratically elected. Therefore it is not strictly analogous with some of the State upper Houses. It is of course not at all analogous with the House of Lords which once claimed to reject a Budget. However, the Senate is not what it ought to be. On the comments of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Senate is not what it ought to be. It has within it members who should not be there. They are there because of a violation of a constitutional convention which began when proportional representation was introduced to the Senate. We have seen these techniques before. This is the first time that the Leader of the Opposition has had to operate in one of his major activities with a split among the newspaper proprietors. When he set out to destroy and defame Gorton he had nearly every newspaper proprietor in the country supporting him. When he set out to replace Snedden it was carefully orchestrated - 
-When the Leader of the Opposition set out to destroy a former Prime Minister he had the co-ordinated support of newspaper proprietors. When he set out to destroy a former leader of the Liberal Party he had the co-ordinated support of the proprietors of newspapers. I remember once in a previous debate saying to him that he could take a small issue, weave it and weave it and make it seem great. That is his technique in debate. However, he can only make it seem great in the country if he has the support of a co-ordinated cacophony from newspaper proprietors. At this moment when he is gravely affecting business some of them think that he is going too far. Even on the Liberal Party side there are some who are beginning to come to the conclusion that they have put another flat tyre on their front wheel. Honourable gentlemen opposite have told us all about our leader. Our leader has sat here while the Liberal Parity has had 5 leaders, while it has tried to find somebody with political nous to lead it. The Leader of the Opposition, who has co-ordinated this campaign with the Senate, knows very well that the Senate is not exercising its functions; it is on strike. It refuses to consider the Budget. There is no such provision in the Constitution. Nobody wrote a provision into the Constitution to say that the Senate may accept the Budget, reject the Budget, request amendments to the Budget or refuse even to look at the Budget. What it is doing at the moment is refusing to look at a Budget which it says it will pass, thereby admitting that it is a good Budget. 
Let us look at the effect of the Senate's tactics on education. In the Appropriation Bills $48m has been allocated for schools in the Australian Capital Territory and more than $36m for schools in the Northern Territory. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has had a great deal to say about facing the people. I would like to see him go up to Darwin and make speeches at the present time about the tactic of obstructing the Budget. I think he will be much more discreet than that. An amount of $5 8m has been appropriated for the Australian National University. Altogether $342m has been allocated for educational services. Obviously the Senate does not object to these things. It does not object to any of the provisions of the Budget or any of the appropriations. It has merely come to the conclusion that it has good timing for an election. 
There is another political point behind all this, and that is the National Country Party's instinct for survival. One thing is perfectly clear: Like the Democratic Labor Party, the Country Party is on the way out. It is very definitely on the way out in upper Houses. In my own State there is one thing on which I agree with the Liberal Party. I agree with its actions, co-ordinated as they happen to be by accident with the Australian Labor Party, of totally elminating the Western Australian Country Party from this Parliament. In Queensland the Country Party has tried to amalgamate with the DLP in its struggle for survival. It is very much afraid that if the majority is lost in the Senate- the majority would be lost in a half Senate election- there will be passed through this Parliament a redistribution Bill conforming to the principles of redistribution contained in the legislation which the High Court has recently upheld as valid- that is, that there may be a variation of 10 per cent above and below the quota. From the Country Party's point of view, this is quite disastrous. The Country Party has Western Australia arranged as a Parliament ought to be arranged. When the Leader of the National 
Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  talks about facing the people he believes in facing the people with the other side batting on a wicket that has been chopped up with pickaxes and his side batting on one that has been flattened by steamrollers. Let us look at the position in Western Australia. In the upper House there are electorates varying from 86 000 electors on the roll- guess whose- to 6000 on the roll- guess whose? Of course, the electorates with 86 000 on the roll are Labor and those with 6000 on the roll are Country Party, and it is right that a Country Party vote should be 14 times as valuable as a Labor vote! 
I am glad to have the Country Party's endorsement. For the lower House there are electorates with 28 000 people on the roll- guess whose- down to 2000- guess whose? Again there is a ratio of 14 to 1. In Western Australia the changes of government are caused by mineral discoveries. A sweet little Country Party pocket borough is arranged with under 2000 electors, someone discovers nickel at Kambalda, workers come into it and the electorate rolls over until the next distribution at which they can push Kambalda into the electorate of Kalgoorlie. That is their idea of an upper House. 

 Sitting suspended from I to 2 p.m. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department exchanges views on this matter with other countries through international organisations interested in education in rural areas. I believe that Australia has a considerable contribution to make to international discussion on this topic, particularly on schemes of financial assistance to isolated children, correspondence education and use of radio for educational purposes in rural areas. Australia has recently hosted (October 7-16) a Commonwealth Educational Broadcasting Conference at which delegates from many countries of the Commonwealth did discuss the role of broadcasting in education including the provision of education to remote areas. The education program of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in which Australia is actively involved, includes two specific projects currently being implemented related to education in sparsely populated rural areas. They are: 'Basic Education and Teacher Support in Sparsely Populated Areas'; 'Alternative Resources and Technologies for Learning'. 
Both projects are part of the program of work of the OECD Centre for Educational Research and Innovation (CERI) Australia intends to participate in each of these projects as pan of its involvement in the CERI program. 
Australia has already contributed to international exchanges on this topic in another part of the OECD/CER education program. The Australian project which has been accepted by OECD and included in the Early Childhood Education program is: 'Evaluation of Pre-School Services for Geographically Isolated Children in Queensland'. 
Officers of my Department are currently making enquiries on details of the activities and membership of Interskola so that these aspects can be examined in relation to the activities of organisations such as OECD and their relevance to Australia assessed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to make adjustments to the approved program of grants to State universities for the 1973-75 triennium to take account of variations in costs over and above those which were allowed for when the program was adopted in 1972. For many years it has been the practice to provide supplementary grants to meet the cost of increases in academic salaries. When the Australian Government assumed full responsibility for the funding of universities and abolished tuition fees, it entered into an arrangement with the universities which extended this principle to cover other salary and non-salary costs. The additional funds proposed in this Bill amount to $22.2m and relate to movements in costs which have occurred since the adjustments made in legislation enacted in the last session. 
Honourable members will be aware that, as a consequence of the general economic situation, the Government has decided to restrict new capital expenditure in the 1 975-76 financial year. Accordingly, it has decided not to proceed with a limited number of building projects which were included in the 1973-75 triennial program but which have not yet gone to contract. Details of these projects are contained in the report by the Universities Commission entitled  Recommendations for 1976  which was tabled in the Parliament on 14 October 1975. Amendments are therefore proposed in this Bill to reduce the grants available for these projects to the level of funds already spent for planning of the projects; where no expenditure has occurred the projects have been deleted from the Principal Act. The reduction in expenditure amounts to $ 10m. 
During 1974 a fire occurred in the Clinical Science Building at the Royal Brisbane Hospital and caused damage to a teaching hospital project of the University of Queensland. Since the Australian Government has assumed responsibility for funding of the university projects, it also has accepted the responsibility of compensating universities for losses of this nature. Consequently, an amount of $38,920 has been provided in the Bill for that university. 
In summary, the effect of this legislation is to increase the funds available to State universities in the 1973-75 triennium to $1,1 64m compared with the program of $894m which was originally adopted. I wish the Bill a speedy passage through the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wilson)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 15 of the Universities Commission Act 1959-1974 I present the sixth report of the Universities Commission dated May 1975. A pre-print copy of this report was distributed to all honourable members during the winter recess of Parliament. 
Living allowances for university students are now about $57m. The payment for fees would be about $60m. Living allowances for advanced education would be about $36m and fees would be $13m. Living allowances for technical education would be $19m and fees would be $21m. That means that living allowances amount to about $ 1 12m and fees to $94m, making a total of $206m. The last arrangements for payment of the living allowances had to be made at the end of last week. They involved the setting up of computers to pay the students. In November it is normal to make a double payment to cover November and December. It has not been possible to make the double payment, so there will be only a single payment. Of course the problem concerns student addresses during the holiday period. Students have been notified by me that if the money becomes available in December the cheques will have to be sent to their term addresses as the task of location and the setting up of computers to trace them would be impossible. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Schools Commission Act 1973 I present the report of the Schools Commission for 1 976- 1 978. This report is tabled in substitution for the preliminary edition of this report tabled in the Parliament on 3 June 1975. A small number of amendments of an editorial nature have been made in the report now being tabled. 
For the information of honourable members I present the following documents: 
The report of the Commission on Advanced Education for 1976-78; 
The recommendations of the Commission on Advanced Education for 1976; 
The report of the Committee on Technical Teacher Education for 1976-78; and 2 Ministerial statements relating to these reports. 
The report of the Commission on Advanced Education is tabled in substitution for the draft version of this report tabled in this House on 1 9 August 1975. Due to the limited number available reference copies of the report of the Committee on Technical Teacher Education have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
'THE AUSTRALIAN PRESCRIBED 
in reply- In replying to the Opposition the best thing I could do would be to take as my text one of the intelligible passages from the Opposition's latest statement on education which says that there is inadequate coordination between the various commissions and committees which advise the Government and that at the moment 5 separate commissions advise the Government on education. I presume that the Opposition has added to my four, the fifth- the Children's Commission, which comes under the Prime Minister's Department. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  made me feel like George I when he referred to the way that I would be controlling the universities through this measure. He said that there was a danger in my controlling the universities and colleges of advanced education. I remind the honourable member: 
The King to Oxford sent a troop of horse, For Tories own no argument but force: With equal skill to Cambridge books he sent, For Whigs admit no force but argument. 
In this legislation I am not seeking control of the universities. If the Government were trying to introduce a philosophy such as the honourable member accused it of doing no doubt the Government would have some form of control. But this is purely a machinery Bill. 
The honourable gentleman contradicted himself by drawing attention to the absence of definitions of 'universities' and 'colleges of advanced education'. If the Government attempted any definition it would be imposing its views. The honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins)  emphasised that a university in a State is the creation of the Crown through the State and that a college of advanced education in a State is the creation of the Crown through the 
State. The only ones that the Australian Government has created and which are not subject to all these mystic controls that the Opposition is always imagining are the Australian National University- which is as free and independent as any other university, except that it has considerably more money- and the Canberra College of Advanced Education, where we have direct constitutional power, none of which has been assumed to do any controlling. If the Government had adopted the definitions of the honourable member for Sturt what sort of a mess would we find ourselves in? 
He said that universities represent research and higher learning whereas the others are vocational. Medicine is a vocation. There are medical faculties in universities. Dentistry is a vocation. There are dental faculties in universities. Engineering is a vocation. There are engineering faculties in universities. There happen to be dental faculties in colleges of advanced education and engineering faculties in colleges of advanced education as well. Teaching is a vocation. There are educational, faculties in universities. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  comes from Western Australia where there is a tertiary education commission without any of the mystic results that he fears about blurring distinctions and heaven knows what. He drew attention to a number of differences between the 2 institutions.. The Government has not defined anything. Within this Bill there is a council of the universities. It will deal with the list of universities in the schedule. Why are they universities? Because the States have called them universities. The council of colleges will deal with the colleges of advanced education in the schedule. Why are they colleges of advanced education? Because the States have so called them. 
It is not true to say that research does not go on in colleges of advanced education. We now have 25 post-graduate course awards every year. It is not true that colleges of advanced education do not award degrees. Among the colleges of advanced education there are a' considerable number of mutual suspicions. I do not know why people become worried about these things, even if what the Opposition fears or why the Opposition fears it is true. It is alleged that six of the great colleges of advanced education plan to follow the University of New South Wales, which was once an institute of technology and shot out through the roof and became a university. So what? This is what is declared by the Western Australian Institute of Technology, the South Australian Institute of Technology, the New South Wales Institute of Technology and the 
Queensland Institute of Technology. If they do so, it will be because the State governments in those places have so decided. It is not for me to decide. 
I think that a very great deal of ignoring of the significance of my early references to teachers' colleges has been a characteristic of the Opposition debate. It is not just a simple question that we have added to colleges of advanced education the teachers' colleges. The legislation really comes into fields where both universities and colleges of advanced education are interested. Diplomas in education are awarded by colleges of advanced education, bachelor of arts degrees in teaching are awarded by colleges of advanced education, diplomas in education are awarded by universities, and bachelor of education degrees are awarded by universities. We can be involved in very heavy expenditures. I think that the Opposition is still living in the pristine innocence which existed when it was the government as far as tertiary education funding is concerned and when the Commonwealth Treasury did not really have to worry about the matter. There was an inbuilt safeguard. In recurring funds the States had to find $1.85 for every $1 found by the Commonwealth. Capital funds were on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis. 
So when the Universities Commission went to a State that shall be nameless, the UnderSecretary to the Treasury said: 'Don't you come down here recommending large expenditures. The State Government cannot pay them.' The 6 State Treasuries had a solid vested interest against any undue rise in tertiary education expenditure. But what is the position today with the State governments whose wisdom must be pouring in? I shall tell honourable members what their wisdom pouring in will mean. It will mean that money will be pouring out. Armidale would not have had a snowball's chance in hell of getting a library for its teachers college and another one for the University of New England in that little town if the Government of New South Wales had had to share in the financing of them. But the pressure for them came on when the bill could be sent to the Commonwealth. 
A number of things have been done which have changed the problem. We have introduced indexation. The original triennial estimate for universities for 1973, 1974 and 1975 was $ 1 ,0 1 8m. When I became Minister for Education the previous Government had set up a committee of inquiry into academic salaries under  Mr Justice  Campbell.  His  award came later. I forget what it cost immediately but I think it was a cool $48m. With increases in academic salaries and the rises in the cost of building, to that $l,018m through indexation was added $262m and $8m was added for new projects. So $ 1,288m became the university allowance over the triennium. The teachers' colleges were added. I will not go into what the estimate for colleges of advanced education was before but the $655m that I think was originally the triennial grant, if teachers' colleges are added to it, rose by about the same amount as it did in the case of universities. But when the Commission set to work to inquire, taking everybody's suggestions and then recording them in its report, what happened? The $l,288m of the Universities Commission, as it was upgraded in the last triennium, became $ 1,780m. The $893m for colleges of advanced education became $ 1,680m. 
These were enormous claims on the Commonwealth's resources for tertiary education. I came to believe that the cargo cult existed in 2 places- in Papua New Guinea and in Australian academe. These were very great claims on our resources indeed. The thing that is worrying about them is the jump in the building claims of the Commission on Advanced Education from $262m in the last triennium to $593m. With all of these tremendous developments that had been taking place- the overlapping of vocational and research in both places, the development of liberal arts in colleges of advanced education, the turning of colleges of advanced education into, among other things, teachers' colleges- we got anomalies. A college of advanced education in Armidale has 700 teacher trainees in it and the university at Armidale has 2100 teacher trainees in it. So the distinctions are very blurred and overlapping to say the least. There is a need for the efficient expending of every dollar. 
I am afraid that indexation means that the State governments are not terribly concerned about keeping the price of a building down since the bill can be sent to uncle Commonwealth. I am also afraid that they have not got the old safeguards on their own part of the expenditure in it. Therefore there must be a high degree of coordination between these 2 tertiary Commissions if they are to recommend realistically the very great finances that are being appropriated now and will be appropriated in the future for tertiary education. It should be remembered that this is not the whole bill. I know of course that vicechancellors are forever speaking- or some of them are, especially some of those who have been quoted- about the privileges and distinctive position that they should have. The real nature of this will be determined by decisions not made by us. I understand that I am to meet a deputation today that wants the training of nurses done in a particular institute which is to become part of a Victorian university. I think the States are all for it. There are 35 000 nurses in training. It costs $3,000 a year per head to train them. That represents a cool $ 105m to be passed on to the Commonwealth if the States can push that expenditure into the fields of advanced education or universities which otherwise they might have to meet at least jointly with the Commonwealth in the field of technical education. 
It is amazing when it comes to sending the bill to the Commonwealth that the States do not mind about centralisation. They will push the bill in very smartly. That is why I think we have to have a clear headed and well co-ordinated body. The legitimate distinctions, whatever they are, between universities and colleges of advanced education will be maintained by the States. We are not controlling the bodies but insofar as this Commission is to have the expertise in dealing with their distinctive problems we have a council of the universities which will deal with the universities and a council of the colleges that will deal with the colleges. But vitally, on both of those councils will be a commissioner for capital projects who will see to it that the competitive bidding for labour and materials between the 2 sets of institutions, which could drive the price up through the roof, will not take place. 
I invite the honourable member for Moore to look at our own small city of Perth. We have a recommendation from the Commission on Advanced Education involving $26m worth of buildings for the West Australian Institute of Technology and from the Universities Commission for $13m worth of buildings for Murdoch University, and they are practically neighbours. Imagine them bidding for the labour and material resources of Western Australia and one has a complete argument for the need for coordination and rationalisation, not for imposing scholastic standards. This is a machinery Bill, not a philosophic Bill. It is for seeing to it that there is an elimination of waste as is called for dramatically by the Liberal Party in that education statement from which I just quoted. 
The Bill establishes machinery. Were it to go further in providing a special role for universities or for colleges along the lines apparently envisaged by some of those mentioned by the honourable member for Stun- he quoted the vice-chancellors-we might justly be accused of imposing a philosophy. The honourable gentleman, in his amendment, claimed that there is no provision for consultation. Just let me read clause 7 ( 2)of the Bill. It states 
For the purpose of the performance of its function under this Act, the Commission shall consult, as appropriate, with the Technical and Further Education Commission, with universities and colleges of advanced education and with the States and may consult with such other persons, bodies or authorities as the Commission thinks necessary. 
The Commission has a positive obligation to consult with the States. The honourable member for Sturt also claimed that the Bill gives the Government power to establish by regulation a unitary system of tertiary education. We cannot recite ourselves into the possession of authority over education. This is a States Grants Bill. There is only one direct Commonwealth power in education and that is the power to grant benefits to students. 
The notional fee payment by the Commonwealth is now $94m- $60m to universities, $ 1 3m to colleges of advanced education- part of the universities' distinctive characterisitics have been based on being considerably dearer- and $2 1 m to technical and further education institutions, making a total of $94m. Student allowances and living allowances for universities, amount to $5 7m- $3 7m for student allowances for colleges of advanced education and about $19m in student living allowances for technical education. But those payments are our direct power. Nothing else is our direct power and there is nothing in this Bill that can impose anything. We follow a listing of universities given by the States. We follow a listing of colleges of advanced education given by the States. It is a device for finding money and funding them. Within their autonomy they determine their courses; they determine their capital expenditure; they determine all those actions which are their proper independent educational functions. We are running a highly decentralised education system. I am not Minister for Education outside the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory; I would properly be described as the Minister for educational grants. In all their several fields what universities and colleges of advanced education do with those grants is very largely a matter of their own decision. That there shall not be any wasteful overlapping of courses at the point of determining the grants needs to be at least one aspect of the matter. 
Of course, many institutions will have separate courses without there being wasteful overlapping. I am not even arguing that it is wasteful in Armidale although it might look suspiciously like it and it might be a good thing if that teacher set-up were in the university where it does not want to be. I am not arguing in regard to that  institution, but sometimes opposition to the rationalising of the entry of a teachers college into a university is because the staff of the college feel that they will lose out and that they do not have the qualifications to become pan of the university. That is a trade union consideration; it is not an educational consideration. There are a lot of those sorts of considerations in the field. I think we have not been ungenerous. We have tried to shield tertiary education institutions from the impact of inflation and I believe the proposed Tertiary Education Commission will be an instrument for maintaining their independence, for following the States' determination of universities and colleges and for producing a better system. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Wilson's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-In supporting the motion that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  do take the Chair I remind the House- I am sure that all who were in the last Parliament will agree with me- of his great technical competence as a  Speaker.  He was a very fair  Speaker.  There was very great clarity in his rulings. While the turn of political fortune may mean that he will cease to have the Speaker's chair as a result of the election in this House there is nothing in his record that deserves defeat.  His  last action was to vindicate the rights of this House against what was an act of very great discourtesy. Had there been only one  deputy  to swear in both Houses we would have been cooling our heels in this chamber waiting for the process to be finished in the Senate. I would like to know why such a discourtesy, never offered, to this House before in my 30 years in this Parliament, took place. But it is consistent with the attitudes shown towards the rights of the House by the holder of that office. 
There is a great importance in the Speakership, but this importance is slurred over. No reference was made from the other side to the importance of the speakership in vindicating the rights of this Parliament. There is a tendency of mind in text books to talk about a military raid on Parliament as something done by Charles I and Cromwell. The last military raid on an English speaking parliament took place in Australia in 1917 under the orders of William Morris Hughes, who was the then Prime Minister. The  Speaker  of the day, although of the same political persuasion, did not co-operate; neither did the Clerks of the House. But a servile majority of the House of Representatives was prepared to vote to vindicate a military raid on itself which its own  Speaker  and its own  Clerk  did not support. So I say that in Australia the tradition of vindicating the rights of this House in the formation of a government and its rights  vis-a-vis  the Crown is very defective. I believe that the correspondence of the honourable member for Corio with the Governor-General, with the Queen and then with the Governor-General again will last in this country as significant documents beyond the chances and changes of any election because they are documents of the greatest significance and the principles incorporated in those documents are principles upon which proper parliamentary government in this country will have to proceed. I believe that abroad there are very few observers of the Westminister system who would not vindicate what was done by  Mr Speaker  Scholes. 
For those reasons I have pleasure in seconding his nomination to the Chair. However, knowing of course the composition of this Parliament and the likely election result I can only say that personally I very greatly regret that the Liberal Party did not choose a much more competent man as its nominee for  Speaker  and one in whom we would have much more confidence. I refer to the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles ). 
I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 3, 1 shall move: 
Whereas section 5 1 paragraph 26 of the Constitution confers on the Parliament of Australia the power to make laws with respect to 'The people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws'; and 
Whereas the Australian people at a referendum of May 1967 indicated overwhelmingly their view that this Australian Parliament has a special obligation to make laws for the advancement of the people of Aboriginal race; and 
Whereas the State Parliament of Queensland has passed a law, the 'Aurukun Associates Agreement Act of 1975', disposing of Aboriginal land to Tipperary Corporation, Billiton Aluminium Australia B.V., and Aluminium Pechiney Holdings Limited without any reference in the Act to the Aboriginal inhabitants having a standing as parties to the Agreement, notwithstanding a reference to Aboriginal people in Queensland generally receiving the benefit of a royalty; 
Therefore in the opinion of this House, legislation should be introduced protecting the rights and standing of the Aboriginal people in the tribal lands affected by the Agreement, and providing for the recognition of traditional Aboriginal owners in the Aurukun area as those Aboriginal people who have common spiritual affiliations to a site on the land and who are entitled by Aboriginal tradition to forage as of right over that land; and providing for the recognition of traditions, observances, customs and beliefs as applied in relation to the people of Aboriginal race at Aurukun, and to sites and areas of land at Aurukun. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. In view of the revelations in the United States, before a congressional committee, of the payment of bribes, gratuities and contributions to party funds by major American businesses to countries foreign to the United States, will the Prime Minister support legislation designed to make public the sources of party funds? Will he propose at the Premiers Conferences similar legislation in the States in view of the interest of these firms in resources which the States possess? In view of the fact that the Lockheed Corporation is revealed as a major source of this sort of corrupt action, will the Prime Minister cause an investigation to be made into its activities in Australia where it has been the major supplier to civil airlines and defence forces? 
-Firstly I express the appreciation of the Opposition for the courtesy of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in circulating early the information that he would give to the House so the matter could be studied. I hope that the precedent he has created will be followed by other Ministers. It is gratifying to note that the coalition Government has finally accepted that our decision to replace the DDL with the patrol frigate was the only possible decision to make in the best interests of the defence of Australia. If honourable gentlemen have any curiosity about the vessel I suggest they look at the  Defence Report  1975. On page 16 they will see a picture of the missile frigate in question. 
The Government's decision is all the more gratifying considering the violent criticism that honourable gentlemen opposite offered when we announced our decision to consider what is clearly the better weapons system- the patrol frigate which is now known as the FFG or guided missile frigate. However the Minister for Defence was less than gracious in his reference to our decision to consider the FFG. He gave a passing but concealed tribute to the acumen of the then Defence Minister,  Mr Lance  Barnard, when he said: 
We are joining this program on very advantageous conditions. 
The simple fact is that those very advantageous conditions were obtained by  Mr Barnard  and were strengthened by his successor,  Mr Morrison.  The terms and conditions of the memorandum of arrangements covering the purchase of the frigates are unprecedented for an Australian defence acquisition and unprecedentedly advantageous. While rightly paying tribute to officers of the Department of Defence for their negotiating ability, I feel it is proper to note that the coalition did not give evidence in the Fill travesty of an ability to obtain very advantageous conditions. I draw the attention of the House to the statement on this matter of the former Minister. It is in the  Defence Report  1 975. It states: 

 New destroyer project. Final commitment by the Australian Government to proceed with the guided missile frigate project will not be made until early 1976 and is dependent, among other things, on the results of a US Government review of the construction program. 
We had options on the 2 vessels, but certain American decisions had to be made. The report continues: 
In the meantime development in the US is proceeding satisfactorily, particularly at the land based test site where test and evaluation programs are being conducted for the major combat systems. Requests for tender proposals for USN guided missile frigate and the RAN ships were issued concurrently to US shipbuilders in April 1 975. Current planning is for delivery of both ships to the RAN by 1982. 
The present Minister made an almost identical statement. 
I wish to say one thing about Woomera which has been a very important area for Australian defence science since it was at Woomera that the Ikara, probably one of the best anti-submarine weapons in the world, was developed. The British Malkara, an anti-tank weapon, and the Blue Streak rocket, which is now completely outmoded but which in its day was quite significant, were developed there also.  Mr Barnard  had announced that the Woomera range would go on to a care and maintenance basis.  Mr Morrison  felt that there could be some additional uses for the range, including Fill exercises and tank live firing exercises. The present Minister's statement acknowledges this possibility.  Mr Morrison  had planned that a team of 3 top scientists review the work of the Weapons Research Establishment and Woomera with a view to future uses. This was in the pipeline on 1 1 November 1975. It is regrettable that the decision to abolish 700 jobs at Woomera and Salisbury has been taken without a thorough and expert examination of the potential uses of Woomera as announced by  Mr Morrison  last year. The previous Government intended to appoint a task force of outside experts to examine whether the work of Salisbury and Woomera could be diversified into other useful activities involving the defence forces. 
The Minister's announcement today is precipitate and the finality of a decision is unnecessary. Woomera is a facility of superb potential and its contribution to Australia's defence science has been unique. There is no reason whatsoever at this stage to condemn Woomera to death along with the jobs of 700 highly trained technicians. I am afraid it is a piece of cosmetic cost saving by the Government which will undermine the true wealth of this nation, namely, the expertise and experience of our best trained workers. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
-The Minister for Defence will be aware that the re-equipment, remodelling and modernisation of HMAS  Perth  has made it entirely different from its former sister ships. Will the Minister indicate whether modernisation and maintenance of essential defence equipment has been postponed by the Government? In particular, will he state whether the modernisation programs for the 2 guided missile destroyers HMAS  Hobart  and HMAS  Brisbane  which were to be given half life refits this year at Garden Island, has been postponed? If that is the case, will he state what effect this will have on the defence preparedness of the ships considering that one aspect of the refit authorised by the previous Government was to install vital electronic warfare equipment in the 2 destroyers? 
-The statement of Government policy which we are debating had a great many claims to originality that were not original. For instance, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  spoke about the development of a joint Services base at Yampi Sound. On 23 August 1974, the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Lance  Barnard, made that statement. In the field of education, the combining of the Tertiary Education Commissions was announced last year. I had the general impression that it was opposed by the Opposition of that time. Now it comes out in the statement of Government policy as Government policy. I congratulate honourable gentlemen opposite on that adoption, because it is common sense. The 2 tertiary commissions reached the state where, making recommendations quite separately, they were making tremendous competitive claims on the capital resources and the labour available in the Australian community. I do not need to go all round Australia to see how they would have competed for building materials and labour in the implementation of their last report, but merely take my own State of Western Australia as an example. The original recommendations were for $26m worth of buildings for the Western Australian Institute of Technology and alongside that, $ 1 3m worth of buildings for Murdock University. Now with the combination of the 2 commissions with a subordinate council for each sort of education, but with a common capital construction commissioner, there are prospects of rationalisation. We pointed this out last year and it did not seem to arouse any enthusiasm from the then Opposition until the time came when it had to face the costs of the alternative. When it faced the costs of the alternative, of course, it adopted our policy. 
I do not wish to go into the Yampi Sound question, but I wish to make one or two points about defence. When David Fairbairn was a member of this House there was one interview which he granted which one might almost say was strategically a lucid interval. He spoke about the liability of the North West Cape base to nuclear attack. There is a delicate balance of theory about whether North West Cape would be subject to a nuclear attack or not. There are those who point out that it may be a factor in the chain of guiding missiles for total destruction of Soviet Donets Basin cities and if it were engaged in such a function it would be logical to expect that, desiring not to be annihilated, the Russians would strike at the base. On the other hand there are those who hold that if a nuclear war breaks out there will be a continual effort on both sides to stop it escalating, and if they destroy one another's communications systems there will be nothing to stop the war escalating, because if one lives in hopes of reversing the tendency to use more and more nuclear missiles and to get some kind of agreement over the hot line, one will have to presuppose that one's enemy can communicate with his submarines or whatever are the vehicles by which the attack is being carried through. What I want to talk about is the facile way in which Government spokesmen tend to assume that the United States will rush to our rescue, because these spokesmen always treat the Australia-New Zealand-United States treaty as a firm alliance. The undertaking- I have not got the precise words- is that both sides will consider their constitutional processes if a threat develops. When I was very young and in first year at university, we had a book - 
-It is a very long time ago. We had a book which is still highly relevant to the present world. It was titled  Treaties Defeated by the Senate.  It was a very illuminating study of United States constitutional processes in foreign policy. It worked up to the great chapter on President Wilson trying to take the United States into the League of Nations and ratify the Treaty of Versailles after he had been the key figure in all the negotiations in Europe and was accepted by all his allies as speaking with a confident voice for the United States. Nothing that he proposed became in fact the foreign policy of the United States. 
There is a very great deal of comment on Angola at the present time. Angola is an instance where the  President  of the United States desired what would be called in this country 'a strong forward policy'. He desired intervention in the Angolan situation. He did not get such a policy of intervention accepted by the American Congress. There was a time when the Press of this country followed the Press of the United States in constant ridicule of Charles de Gaulle. De Gaulle was the first significant foreign affairs spokesman to recognise the significance of China's fear of the Soviet Union. China, studying the possibility of her own destruction, decided that the United States could not destroy China but that the Soviet Union could, and that the Soviet occupation of Hungary and Czechoslovakia was a claim to supervise other communist powers in the way that everybody supervised China in the nineteenth century. China, finding this prospect intolerable, broke with the Soviet Union. In the developing tensions, this obliged the Soviet Union to concentrate a couple of million troops on Russia's Far Eastern border. De Gaulle was the first one to see that, temporarily anyway, the freedom of Europe might be riding on this diversion. The stream of ridicule directed at him continued in the United States for a couple of years until it came to the mind of the United States  President-  it happened to be Nixon at the timethat this might very well be correct, and he decided to go to Peking. 
But there was one other factor that France had to face, and it comes to this constitutional process. The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation alliance is every bit as strong or, if you like, every bit as weak as the ANZUS pact. The NATO headquarters was in France, and it finally came to the point where de Gaulle needed to ask a straight question: 'If, because of the presence of these headquarters, or because of the position of France in the alliance, the Soviet Union were to land a few nuclear missiles on France, would the United States retaliate on her behalf?' I am not going to say that the answer was no, but the answer was profoundly unsatisfactory from France's point of view. Anybody who is not a complete fool would know for instance that the United States is not going to sentence to death 10 million New Yorkers because a nuclear weapon had been used on France. There began to be in de Gaulle's mind a fear that subordinate allies of the great nuclear powers might be used as testing grounds of one another's will. France did not want to be in that position; therefore it cleared NATO out of France completely. France has not left the NATO alliance but it has cleared NATO headquarters out of France and proceeded to develop at great speed, its  force de frappe,  its own independent nuclear deterrent. The very large French naval forces in the Indian Ocean, which at first sight is an ocean that appears to have absolutely nothing to do with the strategic defence of Fance, are there simply so that nuclear missiles on submarines or on other vehicles are deployed on Soviet Donets Basin cities so that if the Soviet Union were to use nuclear weapons on France, France might have this deterrent to be able to retaliate and not be beholden in any way to the United States of America. 
It has become part of the mythology in this country that we have an automatic guarantee that if the Soviet Union were to land one on North West Cape the United States would retaliate on our behalf and sentence to death some millions of New Yorkers, San Franciscans and others. I do not overdraw this because I think the nuclear balance has become fairly strong. It has become stronger than the Cold 
War atmospheres of the past. Basically: the survival of large numbers of people in the world depends on Washington and the Kremlin remaining sane. But statements still tend to be completely overdrawn about the nature of the guarantee that we have from the United States when all that we have is an undertaking to consult the constitutional processes. For all those who wish to be too dogmatic about consulting the constitutional processes, I can do nothing better than to recommend my youthful textbook  Treaties Defeated by the Senate. 
I was a little horrified to hear the Minister for Defence reduce the status of Her Majesty's Australian Navy to what I can only call Her Majesty's prawn patrol. Here we have these magnificent ships. The ones that are to come will cost $150m. HMAS  Perth,  a Charles F. Adams class destroyer that went through a tremendous reconstruction, though a relatively small ship is probably now one of the most powerful weapons systems in the world. I am sure that it would cost about the same amount as the proposed new ships. Presumably HMAS  Brisbane  and HMAS  Hobart  will be similarly converted in due course. These are immensely powerful ships. They are prestige items. The function of the Navy, if it is to retain its dignity, must be the defence of Australia. Its function is not the policing of fishing grounds. What the Minister really revealed was the very great need in this country for what there is in the U.S.A.- a coastguard, or, alternatively, a properly equipped marine police. 
-Good. I think it would be very unfortunate if the role of the Navy were to be downgraded in this case. The need for a coastguard or a properly equipped marine police is related to other forms of services which seem to me to depend upon police intelligence, such as drug or other forms of smuggling. There is in Australia a need for that sort of service. A very great deal has been said in a controversy in which I got myself involved in Western Australia, unwisely perhaps, about defending our west coast. It became gloriously obvious that large numbers of people still think of Cockburn Sound as the 'No. 8 British coaling station ' which was what Admiral Henderson conceived it should be. It originally was proposed as a Navy base because Admiral Henderson thought of Gibraltar, Malta, Alexandria, Aden, Bombay, Trincomalee, Singapore, Cockburn Sound, Sydney and Wellington. There was the chain of 10 bases where British ships could coal in their function of patrolling the world. Then we are told about our great empty coastline which requires surveillance. 
The more the Minister has stressed that it is the Soviet Navy he is concerned about and that it must be kept under surveillance, the stranger the kind of commentary that he has been making appears to me to be. I think it is generally accepted that the submarine missiles of the Soviet Union do not have the range of the submarine missiles of the U.S.A. but they are sufficient. It is as Mercutio says in Romeo and Juliet: 
No, 't is not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door, but 't is enough, t will serve: ask for me tomorrow, and you shall find me a grave man. 
A missile that can carry 4200 nautical miles is sufficient. So if the Soviet Union actually wished to attack Cockburn Sound- I am not suggesting that it would at the moment- it could do it from off Capetown, from the Antarctic, from 2000 miles north of Singapore or from 800 miles east of Wellington, New Zealand. The conception that  Sir Charles  Court has, that something should be patrolling up the coast, seems slightly outmoded as a form of defence. But if we wish to have a supervision of the whole coast of Western Australia, for $60m we could set up a satellite that could keep the whole of the western coast, the Indian Ocean coast, under constant and permanent surveillance. A sum of $60m may sound a lot but after all the 2 ships which we of the Labor Party considered when we were in government and which the Minister for Defence has confirmed, cost $150m each. Defence hardware today is of that order of expensiveness. 
-Yes. I do not have time to dwell on the last point I wish to mention. I want to make a point following the answer by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to a question he was asked. I am not sure that he was strictly in order in answering the question because we have a notice of motion on the matter listed for general business Thursday No. 3. I refer to Aurukun. I have come to the conclusion that our doctrine of assimilation is impertinence; our doctrine of integration is impertinence; every doctrine that we have imposed on the Aborigines is a piece of impertinence. We have assumed that Aborigines ought to be our subjects or our citizens. Who gave us the right to make that assumption? I believe that things will come straight when we begin to look at them for what they are entitled to be- a distinctive nation. They never asked to be absorbed into our system. They are getting a taste from the Queensland Government of what they always have had at the hands of Australians- the assumption that if we want something they happen to be occupying they can move on, and if there is any agreement they are not parties to the agreement. We act all the time on the assumption that they are a conquered people. We have never acted on any other assumption than that they are a conquered people. 
We began to reverse some of that. The first educational decision made by myself and taken to the then Prime Minister was that Aborigines had a right where they so chose to an education in their own language as the medium of instruction. If you deny the right of a people to an education in their language, as the English for a long time denied the Welsh an education in their own language, you are quite patently acting on the assumption that they are a conquered people. I see that the light is on indicating that my time limit has just about expired. I merely want to make this one point. It may well be that, irritating as it was, the principle of having an Aboriginal embassy right outside our doors was the expression of something which, as far as people of genuinely Aboriginal culture are concerned, was valid- that they are a distinctive nation and have the right to approach us from their own assumptions and on their own basis instead of eternally having imposed on them our ideas and our values about what they should be and what should happen to them. 
I ask the Minister for Defence a question. It rests upon his reported decision to increase the size of the Australian Army from 3 1 500 to 38 000 persons, at a cost between $72m and $90m. Is it a fact that the advice given to him is that such money would be better spent equipping the Army with weaponry which was perceived to be necessary in the Middle East conflict of 1973? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. When he announced in the House the $50,000 aid to Guatemala after the earthquake in that country which rendered one million people homeless- a sum of money which was somewhat less than very poor countries gave for relief in Darwin-he said that there would be a possibility of some further assistance being given if any request were made. I ask the honourable gentleman whether there has been any advance on the $50,000. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Exchange of Notes between the Australian and United States Governments of 13 January 1969(renewed 10 July 1969) relating to the Study of Ionospheric Propagation in relation to Long Range Radio Paths still in force; if not, when did it expire. 
How many (a) Australian and (b) United States personnel were engaged in work (i) at Norfolk Island and ( ii ) in continental Australia under the terms of the Exchange of Notes as at (A) 31 January 1969, (B) 30 April 1969, (C) 31 July 1969, (D) 31 December 1969 and (E) the end of each quarter thereafter during which the Exchange remained in Force. 
Did the work conducted under the Exchange involve the study of the earth's magnetosphere by means of whistling atmospherics; if not, what did the work conducted involve. 
Will he make available the results of work conducted under the Exchange. 
What was the total cost to Australia of executing her part in the Exchange. 
-When the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  introduced this Bill he was gracious enough to say that of the $476m expenditure for schools $45m dated from the Liberal legislation of 1972 and $43 lm from the decisions of the Whitlam Government. That may be some indication in one year of the increase in expenditure that was put into education. The Minister, however, did make a remark to the effect that the Federal Minister for Education will consult with the States as to what constitutes a disadvantaged school. I only make a comment on this because the Minister apparently believed that he was saying something new. As Minister for Education in the Whitlam Government I could not have told honourable members what the disadvantaged schools of New South Wales or Victoria were. I might have guessed at them in my own State of Western Australia. Act No. 214 of 1973, the States Grants (Schools) Act, which passed the Senate only after a homeric struggle, with the Liberal Party voting against it at all stages, provides this definition:  'Government disadvantaged school' means a government primary school or, a government secondary school, in a State which the State Education Minister Tor the State informs the Minister, in writing, is a disadvantaged school, and which is declared by the Minister, in writing, to be a disadvantaged school for the purpose of this Act: 
So necessarily the initiative under our legislation was coming from the State government. I should like to inform the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that what he said is not new. It is the existing system. 
It would be fair to say that the Commonwealth funding of schools administered a shock to the whole system. It brought in concepts that they ought to have had, for instance, that one of disadvantaged schools, but which they did not have. In the enrichment of education which ensued from this increased expenditure acknowledgements were always made by" the Catholic education authorities, and never acknowledgements made by the State education authorities, of the advance in their education which we know took place. I am going to suggest why. Before there was any Commonwealth interest in education whatsoever, before there was even a Commonwealth brass razoo given to universities, every educationalist who visited this country said that Australian education was the most bureaucratic and the most centralised and stifling bureaucracy they had seen in any comparable country in the world. The systems they were talking about were the State systems. With a gasp of relief, many of the State authorities switched the accusation onto the Commonwealth the moment we began to find significant money for their schools. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that although these slogans have been thrown around unchallenged the Commonwealth structure that was set up by us was neither bureaucratic nor centralised. The Schools Commission does not consist of Commonwealth bureaucrats. If Father Martin, the Director of Catholic Education in Victoria, had to give an objective assessment of the needs of State schools, he did so. He did so with independence, not as a Commonwealth employee instructed in the sense that Laurie Sheers could be instructed by his Minister in Victoria in the directions of the findings that he would make. The Schools Commission is not a bureaucratic body and it does not have a bureaucracy under it. The grants were made to the Catholic education authorities, to individual independent schools and to State education authorities. Although there were some specifications about a certain expenditure on disadvantaged schools and a certain expenditure on education of the handicapped, the vast bulk involved expenditure on which the States or the Catholic education authorities were free to decide. The result was something that had not happened before in the States. In Western Australia, as the honourable member who just spoke may well remember, a Country Party Minister for Education,  Mr Lewis-  I have always paid the highest tributes to him- with perhaps the best Director of Education that Australia has ever seen, the late  Dr T.  L. Robertson, objectively put educational facilities where there was a need. But everybody who knows anything about education knows that normal State procedure is for powerful political personalities to put the best and the most expensive high schools in their electorate, irrespective of whether there is the number of children there to justify them. The standard procedure of the States in areas of disadvantaged schools was to let them rot. There was no political backlash from this. In the poorer areas, where the poorer schools invariably are, there is not an articulate, critical population. They could be sold slogans such as 'schooling is much better than when we went to school', and that was good enough. The school could be a thoroughly disadvantaged school and there would be no political loss about it. In precisely the same way there was no political demand for, and no political kudos to be obtained, when we put every Aboriginal child in secondary education on a scholarship which might range from some $250 to $2,000 a year. There was no demand for that from the Aboriginal community, and in wide sections of the Aboriginal community among the parents there was no understanding of what was happening to their children. But when we have a body like the Schools Commission consisting of independent educationalists making assessments regardless of the political convenience of their political masterseither the Australian Minister for Education or the State Ministers- then there is an objective assessment of the needs in certain areas. 
And do not be confused that you are running across the deepest convictions of the most articulate Australian parents. It is almost standard in Australia for a parent to regard education as a weapon of his child's advantage- 'I am a good parent if I fight for my child 's advantage over that of all other children'. This has led to the development of some of the finest independent schools in the country. It is there that a child gets an education which gives him an advantage over everybody else. But the nation has not got the slightest interest in such a concept. The nation has not got an interest in the concept of advantage for some children's education; it has got an interest in the concept that education should be an instrument of every child's dignity and advancement. That really is what the Schools Commission's work was about. That is why, in the grants to the independent schools, where in 1972, at the secondary level only- I will not keep commenting on the primary level- there was a 68 per capita per secondary student a year to the wealthiest school, or the school with the highest resource level, and to the school with the lowest resource level in the independent structure a flat rate across the board, now in this legislation, which was our legislation, drafted by our government before it fell, the per capita basis ranges from 104 to 338 according to the school's resource level. But do not think that large numbers of people love you for that. 
Honourable members should remember the controversies of November and December 1973. The interesting fact which I found was that the 40 schools classified A out of the 9500 schools in the country could make more noise than the other 9460 schools put together because they had articulate parents who knew exactly what they wanted for their children and could argue for them. In fact, none of them lost but not all of them were ve.ry happy to see the chances of other children being brought up to their level. It ran across, for instance, the convictions of the Anglican Church, of which I am a member but which has made a slight amendment to the Gospel as far as its schools are concerned, so that it is as follows: 'Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to those who can pay $2,000 a year'. The position in the Catholic schools, where they try to reach the poorest child, was that they had, of course, a very great burden of education, and they had not made an amendment to the Magnificat to this effect: 'He has put down the mighty from their seat and exhalted the humble and meek; he has filled the hungry with good things and the rich have got the same amount in flat rate grants across the board'. This does not happen to be what the Magnificat said. Yet we found that in certain church sectors when we started to carry out the Magnificat in education people did not always appreciate it. They had slightly amended what the Blessed Virgin Mary said was God's policy. 
This legislation maintains for this year- and I hope we will always maintain it- what I will call indexation cost supplementation. The measure that the Labor Government brought in provided $462m and it is cost supplemented up to $476m. The introduction of indexation for universities, colleges of advanced education and schools by my Ministry was not popular with the Treasury. It made education a rather privileged sector, screened against changes in cost structures, and this was not altogether liked. However, it gave a good run to the children of the country. The States have not always wanted to reveal weaknesses and we had some amazing experiences. When we became the Government the Commonwealth expenditure on technical education in a triennium was $36m. In our triennium it became $171m, which was a considerable lift. But when the Richardson report was brought down and the authors wanted to illustrate it with photographs of the slums which many State technical colleges are, there was a rush to make sure that none of these photographs were published. Of course we did not flout the views of the States but I was given this interesting information: 'If you publish that the Leader of the Opposition will get hold of it'. So we spent time concealing need because someone might have got a political discredit. It did not matter tuppence that a particular technical college was a danger to life in the event of fire- and this was established by some photographs showing great stores of paint at the only exit. If the Leader of the Opposition saw that photograph he might have said something about it- and that was far more important than having an objective report of the colossal needs of technical education! 
The Schools Commission concept, or the Technical and Further Education Commission concept for that matter, of analysing needs cuts across this view and keeps the spotlight on educational needs. Of course, this becomes dreadfully expensive. In the 1971-72 biennium, before we became the Government, Commonwealth expenditure on schools outside the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory- I exclude those the whole time- was $U2m. It spent $41m on State schools and $71m on nongovernment schools. In the Karmel biennium of 1974-75 the expenditure was $784m. The $41m previously spent on State schools was multiplied by 13 or more and became $550m and the $71m on non-government schools was multiplied by more than 3 and became $234m. This $476m added to that $784m means that in this triennium, the Karmel triennium, Commonwealth expenditure on schools will be $ 1,260m. That represents a sixfold increase, at least in dollar terms, over the previous triennium, and in real terms a fivefold increase or slightly more. So with further indexation still to come- as the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  said, there will be supplementary legislation before this year is out- there has been a very great Commonwealth commitment to schools. 
Honourable members need to understand some of the realities within the States because we are now getting a picture of the lovely unified States where everybody has the same idea and they are all marching to get the same policy from the Commonwealth. That is not so. 
I hope that the 'hear hear' gentleman some day has the experience of being on the Australian Education Council where one sits with the 6 States Ministers for Education. One finds very quickly that the Commonwealth's position of requiring the States to maintain their efforts in education, then receiving the Commonwealth grant on top of it was, in fact, the State Education Ministers' charter of emancipation from the Treasury. The Treasurer could not say to him: 'Cut your additional expenditure' when he could say: 'Ah, but it is a condition of the Commonwealth grant still to come that we maintain our effort and then the Commonwealth expenditure comes in as an addition'. Obviously, that is the State Education Minister's charter of independence from the State Treasurer and all the Education Ministers liked it. One learns that privately, of course, over the cups of coffee, not publicly at the meeting. They all liked it but there was an exception. I shall not name him but he had anticipations of being Premier at some stage. 
Well, his expectations have been achieved, I put it that way. He did not want this ear-marking of money for education because if he preferred to spend it on beef roads that was what he wanted to be able to do. He did not anticipate that he would still be the Education Minister battling against his Treasury. He anticipated that he would be Treasurer and Premier and that he would be making the decisions, and so any commitment or earmarking for education was not quite along his lines. 
I urge the Minister to stand by certain things. I urge him to try to defend- he will find himself battling with the Commonwealth Treasury if he does- the question of indexing or maintaining cost supplementation. I urge him to defend not only in this legislation but elsewhere the principle of accessibility. So that we could make education accessible to children in remote areas we introduced the isolated children's grants. So that we could make education accessible to the children of widows and others who are in 5th and 6th forms we introduced a special grant for children at those levels. The assistance should have been extended to 4th form students because this is the stage at which most children are compelled to leave school. At least more than 20 000 students received this grant on the basis of need to enable them to complete their secondary education. 
In an attempt to try to make education accessible we extended the grants to all Aboriginal children in the secondary education areas. When children from Cambodia and South Vietnam were cut off from the sources of funds they were given isolated children's grants, tertiary scholarships, post-graduate scholarships or various other forms of grant to meet their needs. The previous Government took this action to try to maintain the accessibility of education to people who were hit by economic or some other form of tragedy. I hope that the Minister will maintain this assistance. 
Thirdly, I hope that the Minister will maintain the idea of weighted grants to enrich education in areas where there is the greatest need; for example, the establishment of a beautiful library in a Catholic school in a slum area. The Minister will not have to make the decision in respect of state schools because the State Minister will do that. But at least the Minister will be able to make a decision in respect of weighted grants for disadvantaged areas. 
The last thing I want to say is that in the biennium before we came to office the all up expenditure by the Commonwealth on education for the handicapped was $5m. In the biennium just completed the all up expenditure on education for the handicapped- that is for research at universities and everywhere else- was $67m. This has made a very great difference to the qualifications of teachers who handle the problems of handicapped children and to the knowledge of where we are going. All these things have been long overdue additions to the structure of Australian education. By and large this is what this States Grants (Schools) Bill is about. I congratulate the Government for making the promise to continue the policy and for now carrying out that promise. 
-When I heard the speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in introducing this Bill and read it afterwards I asked myself: 'Where have I heard this glorious prose, these ringing periods, these majestic sentiments before?' So I went back to the speech that I made when I introduced the Bill originally and found that it was exactly the same speech with one slight difference, which the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  emphasised when he spoke a moment ago. I am glad therefore to see that trade union principles still exist in the Commonwealth Teaching Service structure and that nobody has gone to the trouble of writing a different speech for the new Minister, even if he happens to be of the opposite political party. 
However, the word 'Commonwealth' has reappeared. I congratulate the Minister for restoring that socialistic and entirely revolutionary term which Queen Victoria fought so hard to ensure should not be in the Australian Constitution because it was redolent of Oliver Cromwell. Even Oliver himself had not much liked the word but it was pressed upon him by the levellers who had very much the same idea of monarchy as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has of  Sir John  Kerr. They could prove their scriptural orthodoxy by pointing out that it occurs in St Paul's Epistles to the Corinthians where he refers to the Commonwealth of Israel.  Sir Robert  Garran has revealed that the reason the word was adopted in Australia was that it came from the Epistles to the Corinthians. Anyway, 'Commonwealth' is a socialistic expression and that is why the levellers fastened on to it. The expression also has revolutionary overtones. It is an amusing paradox that 'Commonwealth 'happens to be a word. that the Leader of the Opposition dislikes, and therefore it was eliminated from much of our legislation. But in ideological terms one would have thought that the more radical party would go for the word 'Commonwealth', and that honourable gentlemen opposite would be strenuously trying to eliminate it. 
Having said that, there is no need for me to go into details about the superannuation rights that have been adequately touched upon by the honourable member for Moore. The Commonwealth Teaching Service has certain important functions to perform. It still requires some dedicated persons to go to Papua New Guinea. I hope that it will still recruit people with a real sense of mission for that purpose to go into the secondary education structure of that country. The Service also requires in the Northern Territory teachers of very high quality, with similar dedication to deal with disadvantaged peopleespecially the Aboriginal sector of the community- and with perception and compassion to deal with children who suffer the disadvantages of isolation in the Northern Territory. It is an important teaching service. 
In my time as Minister the Service recruited and retained many able teachers from South Australia to teach in the Northern Territory. Teachers have also been recruited from New South Wales and elsewhere to teach in the Australian Capital Territory. As the previous speaker said, the Bill is not in any way controversial, and we will not delay the Minister in getting his speedy passage of the Bill. In view of this the speeches will be short from this side of the House. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Is it the intention of the Department of Defence to take over Lawley House for Department of Defence uses? 
My question which I address to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is based on the fact that apparently the casualties in Lebanon in less than a year are about 4 times the rate of casualties of the worst year of the Vietnam war, that Arafat's statement that he will prevent partition is interpreted as an intention to genocide of Christians and that there are Syrian troops in Lebanon. Is the Minister prepared to take up these issues before the United Nations as a threat to peace, or is he satisfied with the situation in the United Nations where Israeli school text books can be discussed as a threat to peace, but not Lebanon- a situation which seems to be explicable in terms of the old Middle East metaphor of straining at gnats and swallowing camels? 
I move: 
That- 
Whereas Section 5 1 paragraph 26 of the Constitution confers on the Parliament of Australia the power to make laws with respect to 'The people of any race for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws'; and 
Whereas the Australian people at a referendum of May 1967 indicated overwhelmingly their view that this Australian Parliament has a special obligation to make laws for the advancement of the people of Aboriginal race; and 
Whereas the State Parliament of Queensland has passed a law, the, 'Aurukun Associates Agreement Act of 1975', disposing of Aboriginal land to Tipperary Corporation. Billiton Aluminium Australia BV, and Aluminium Pechiney Holdings Limited without any reference in the Act to the Aboriginal inhabitants having a standing as parties to the Agreement, notwithstanding a reference to Aboriginal people in Queensland generally receiving the benefit of a royalty; 
Therefore, in the opinion of this House, legislation should be introduced protecting the rights and standing of the Aboriginal people in the tribal lands affected by the Agreement, and providing for the recognition of traditional Aboriginal owners in the Aurukun area as those Aboriginal people who have common spiritual affiliations io a site on the land and who are entitled by Aboriginal tradition to forage as of right over that land; and providing for the recognition of traditions, observances, customs and beliefs as applied in relation to the people of Aboriginal race at Aurukun, and to sites and areas of land at Aurukun. 
The operative pan of the motion is the request for legislation to be introduced protecting the rights and standing of the Aboriginal people affected by the Aurukun Associates Agreement Act 1975 of the Parliament of the State of Queensland. Although in some cases mining will not take place under that agreement until 1982, the Bill was hastened through the Queensland Parliament in the hurly burly of the Federal election campaign. It was thrust through without proper consultation with Aurukun Aborigines by the Queensland Government. The responsible Minister in the Queensland Government is the honourable R. E. Camm, the Minister for Mines and Energy. In the course of the debate on 4 December 1975 he claimed that there had been adequate consultation and Aurukun Aboriginal consent to his agreement. That Minister's performance was depressing. 
Under the arrangements of the Queensland Government some royalties are payable into a welfare fund for all the Aborigines of Queensland as a result of mining at Aurukun. When it was pointed out to the Minister (a) that nobody would regard it as compensation for the owner of a property if that owner were European to inform him that his property was being disposed of for the benefit of all the people of Queensland and he would have his share in that, and (b) that it would be perfectly easy to use the royalties in a welfare fund as a means of reducing the payment of other consolidated revenue into the fund, to no ultimate real benefit to Aborigines, the Minister made a priceless reply. 
Queensland  Hansard  for 4 December 1975 at page 2538 records  Mr Camm  as saying: 
Would the honourable gentleman say that the benefits of Mt Isa should go only to the people of Mt Isa? 
The questions to be answered were really: Firstly, do you regard the Aborigines of Aurukun as having any title to the land of Aurukun; and secondly, have they been fully informed about what is happening to this land and do they consent to the arrangements? 
It would be fair to say that Queensland follows the classic Australian pattern in acknowledging no Aboriginal land rights- I accept what is now happening, and has been happening for some time, in the Northern Territory- and regarding Aborigines in fact as a conquered people who may be dispossessed with impunity from what they regard as theirs. Therefore the answer to the question 'Do Aurukun Aborigines have any title to Aurukun land?' would in honesty be a simple 'no'. That simple answer is not given. It is an assumption acted upon. What a man believes is not the principle he professes but the assumption on which he acts. In any event, if the land title were acknowledged, as the Minister indicated, since a Queensland Act of 1898 states that 'the ownership of land does not give ownership of minerals on or under the surface of the land', these minerals could be disposed of by the State government as it saw fit. Three per cent of the net profits of the project would be spent for the benefit of 50 000 Aborigines in Queenslandminiscule individual benefit. 
A good deal of the debate in the Queensland Parliament turned on whether proper consultation had taken place. Aurukun has a Presbyterian mission and the board of the Presbyterian missions asked the Premier of Queensland 'to withdraw the Bill pending consideration of it by the Aurukun community' and 'to ensure that the negotiated rights of the Aboriginal people are safeguarded'. I will not repeat any of that debate, but the question at issue did go to  Mr D.  Longland, the Queensland Ombudsman. In a report tabled in the Queensland Parliament he said that the Aurukun Aborigines believed that they had not been consulted enough. He pointed out that they were not implacably opposed to mining. I quote verbatim what he said: 
They are firm in their stand that implementation should be delayed for adequate consultation, participation and explanation. The councillors- 
That is the Aboriginal councillors - admit to a measure of consultation . . . 
They say that consultation took place to the point where agreement was for prospecting, on a promise there would be further consultation before mining commenced. 
It was claimed that this had not happened and that the developers arrived and commenced preparatory mining undertakings without permission. 
One turn the debate took was innuendo against the missionaries and this, to me, had a familiar ring. I noted this when I was a member of the select committees on the grievances of Yirrkala Aborigines and the voting rights of Aborigines. Aborigines were assumed by some officials to have no thoughts or opinions of their own, and the missionary was blamed for 'stirring'- a great word in the Australian outback. It was I who advised Yirrkala Aborigines to petition the House of Representatives and to do so on a bark painting. The local missionary, then the Reverend Edgar Wells, got the blame. The lawyers who advised the companies were legitimate but anybody who advised the Aborigines was a 'stirrer'. 
The Government of Queensland might well sing small in the presence of the Presbyterian missions at Aurukan and Doomadgee. The Government's own Queensland Institute of Medical Research studied the syndrome of protein calory malnutrition in Australian Aboriginal children and published the academic consequences in the school work of the Aboriginal children as well as the health consequences in the form of growth retardation and anaemia. At 2 missions where infant feeding was supervised and nutritional deficiency in pregnant mothers prevented, the children showed normal growth patterns suggesting the  Caucasian  growth patterns also apply to Aboriginal children. The 2 missions where this desirable result existed were Aurukun and Doomadgee. These 2 missions left Queensland Government settlements for dead in terms of effectiveness for Aboriginal child health though their resources were less than Government settlements. The differentiating factor was mission dedication. 
I quote the conclusions of David G. Jose, M.B., B.S., M.R.A.C.P., and John S. Welch, B.Sc, after the study of 2 250 Aboriginal children. They said: 
The authors also wish to pay tribute to Sister A. Cameron of Aurukun mission and Sister I. C. Black of Doomadgee mission, the results of whose dedicated work in health and infant welfare over many years are recorded in this paper. 
The paper was a searching study. The children showing proper growth showed the normal distribution of academic abilities, not retarded academic abilities. Aurukun Presbyterian mission, which has been derided in this context, carries the burden of caring about the Aborigines, the burden of understanding them, the burden of listening to them, the burden of applying inspired thought to their needs. I suggest no infallibility of the mission but its results show its superior level of action to that of the Queensland Government and that it is worth respect. 
Aborigines are a pastoral people living off the land in their Aboriginal state. Land was and is sacred to them. I took with me to Europe to meet the principals of the Swiss company owning mining rights at Gove 2 young Aboriginal men. One had a name which meant 'Horizon at sea, rock'. The other had a name which meant 'movement of the octopus, reef. In Aboriginal belief in that area the earth spirit enters a woman to fashion the child when the woman first feels the quickening. The place where she first feels the quickening is sacred to that child. These young men were named after the place. The anthropologist Roheim long ago commented concerning Aborigines of the central Australian desert: 
Like every other human being he loves his home dearly. Their faces will brighten up when they speak of the place where they  'Rataperama'  (became incarnated), or of other places of mythological fame, and they will call them  Tmarra knarra  or  Ngurru Puntu  a big place. When one arrives at the big place in question, it is only a few trees and rocks, with perhaps a little water to account for its reputation. Yet  Ltalaltuma  for the Aranda or  Ilpila  for the  Gumu  has the same emotional value as London for an Englishman or Paris for a Frenchman. 
Human beings born or conceived in an area may be identified with the supernatural beings who created the landscape. Aboriginal religion is transcendent. It seeks to explain the origin of all things and indicates man's identity with all things and with creation and the creative idea, or dreaming. Our land titles derive from proclamations of the sovereignty of George III. A dreamtime origin of a title is no more mystic than the idea that George III by the grace of God owned it all. But George Ill's legatees have had more fire power. What we are talking about is not justice, but conquest. We cannot reform our ancestors or reverse the past, but we can infuse justice into the situation. We can be sensitive- to other ways of thought and respect other forms of title. 
At Aurukun the Aborigines want a decent standing. Mining for bauxite is not making a hole in the ground; it is creating a moonscape by razing the whole surface. Any standing for Aborigines has to be deliberately enacted. The late Harold Holt had a Parliament unanimous in his support for a referendum to confer power to legislate for Aborigines. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Eraser)  has written to the Queensland Premier in this matter. When I was a member of the Select Committee on aboriginal voting rights, our committee came down the Queensland coast taking evidence. Any vehement assertion that Queensland had the finest Aboriginal policy in the world hit the front pages of the Press under big headlines. Intelligent, analytical criticism was invariably spiked by the Queensland Press. The State has, I fear, been systematically brainwashed in this way and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  visits withering phrases on critics of this policy. Withering phrases will not exorcise the health research, unacknowledged by the Queensland Government, of course, not written for popular consumption, which I have cited and which is, in a way, a great tribute to Aurukun mission. We all, including  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  have humbly to learn how to deal with Aborigines and we might begin by listening to them, acknowledging land rights and treating them unsentimentally and with dignity. The resolution asks for that. 
I said we derive our titles to land from George III. His instructions to Captain Cook were to show the Aborigines: 
Every kind of civility and regard and . . . with their consent take possession of convenient situations in the country in the name of the King of Great Britain. 
His instructions to Governor Phillip were: 
To conciliate their affections, enjoining all our subjects to live in amity and kindness with them. And if any of our subjects shall wantonly destroy them or give them an unnecessary interruption in their several occupations it is our will and pleasure that you do cause such offenders to be brought to punishment. 
As to other colonies, notably Canada, George III spoke of the 'great frauds and abuses in acquiring the land' of Red Indians and other natives. We in the Opposition believe that the Aurukun land affair constitutes an abuse and consequently urge this action on the House and the Government. It has taken a long time to carry out George Ill's humane instructions to Cook and Phillip. We might make a beginning here today. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the proposal to alter the flow of traffic using the West Coast Highway in the Cottesloe-Swanbourne area of Perth. 
If so. can he say whether there are proposals to (a) divert traffic by the construction of a new road through land presently occupied by the Army, or (b) to relocate persons whose homes will be demolished if traffic is diverted through Servetus Street. 
Have approaches been made by the Western Australian Government seeking the release of lands in Swanbourne for either the relocation of people affected by land resumptions, or alternatively for the diversion of the road through Army land. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether the consultants' report and recommendations on the southern extensions of the West Coast Highway in the Perth Metropolitan area has been received by the Western Australian Government. 
As Commonwealth financial assistance is likely to be sought for the development of the project, when will an environmental impact study be commenced by his Department. 
-The right honourable the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was my predecessor as Minister for Education. I was therefore interested when the right honourable gentleman spoke about the importance of technical education and the need for a new emphasis on technical education in Australia. When I became the Minister for Education, Commonwealth expenditure on technical education was $19m a year. We raised that amount to $71m a year, a 350 per cent increase. In my time as Minister for Education, we made technical education free and student enrolments at technical colleges rose from 400 000 to 70S 000. 1 would think that a 75 per cent increase in enrolments in 2 years showed a considerable re-orientation of Australian education towards technical education. However, I think that the Prime Minister's distinctions between technical education and other education need very careful examination. 
A study by the Canberra Technical College showed that of 880 apprentices, 16 per cent, which would be more than 120 apprentices, had reading ages totally inadequate to do a technical course. When apprentice week was being held, I, as Minister for Education, looked particularly at the reading material required by apprentices. For instance, a motor mechanic apprentice used company manuals- manuals from Ford, Holden, Austin, Toyota and all the various motor firms. If a reading age of 15 is required to understand an Australian income tax form, which I understand is the age required for understanding that form, it would require a reading age of much more than that to understand a motor manual. Again, if a young person is training as a chef at the Canberra Technical College or as a horticultural apprentice of any kind, the tertiary text books that are required are of full university level. There is no way in the world by which a modern technical student can get by without a high level of literacy, numeracy and power of expression- the things that are called academic. There is no escape from this. A thoroughly efficient academic education which confers on the student literacy, numeracy and the power of expression is absolutely essential. 
Let us not draw false distinctions between technical education and other education. As I say, an increase in enrolment from 400 000 students to 705 000 students is quite significant. I think that the Government has gravely underestimated the continued rising demand, notwithstanding what the Prime Minister has had to say. I admit that the increase of 300 000 students who have enrolled over a couple of years must level out. Perhaps I could best use the expressions of the Technical and Further Education Commission itself in relation to this matter. The Commission writes: 
A rate of enrolment growth of the magnitude experienced by TAFE systems in recent years must be expected to level off at some time. Also, some scope exists to increase the utilisation of existing capital facilities of TAFE throughout the day, week and year, and to make greater use of unused industrial facilities. After allowing for this, the Commission has concluded that it would be irresponsible to plan on the basis of an increase of any less than 85 000 additional enrolments over the triennium for which further capital faculties will need to be specifically provided. 
I would like to say something about the States in relation to this matter. They have had responsibility for technical education. When I became Minister, we were concluding a triennium in which the Commonwealth had granted $36m over 3 years to the States for technical education buildings. That was immediately increased to $46m. The States could not, would not, or at any rate did not, spend the money. Of that $46m provided over 3 years, which in all conscience was a small enough amount, $39m was spent. Three States returned $7m unspent. The 3 States were New South Wales, then under a Liberal government; Queensland, then governed as it is now; and Victoria, then governed as it is now. The other States spent their money and some were asking for more. The Technical and Further Education Commission under Professor Richardson advocated an expenditure for capital facilities of $234m in 2'A years. There was no way in the world in which I could logically convince the Treasury that States which could not spend $46m in 3 years could spend $234m in  Vh  years, and I did not attempt to do so. The position was reached of course where there were not the safeguards in this form of education that there had been in the Schools Commission. 
I engaged in a television debate on this matter with  Sir Eric  Willis. I must say that he was a man who was very difficult to look in the face because he had such dazzling cheek. He said that the Commonwealth grants were a nice piece of icing on the cake. So I drew his attention to the fact that with regard to capital expenditure on technical education in New South Wales, 10 Commonwealth dollars were being spent for one State dollar. So the icing in that respect, anyway, was 10 times as thick as the cake.  Sir Eric  very graciously said: 'Well, I will admit the icing was very thick and very sweet'. The icing on technical education which the Prime Minister particularly picked up with regard to Victoria was that for capital construction of technical colleges 4 Commonwealth dollars were being spent for one State dollar. In South Australia the situation was almost the reverse; 3 State dollars were being spent for one Commonwealth dollar. I think the depressing conclusion that one would come to with regard to the field of technical education was that the States of New South Wales and Victoriatremendously important States- were using Commonwealth grants of a capital nature for technical education as a substitute for and not additional to their own expenditure. There was no provision in the legislation about the maintenance of effort by the States such as existed in the Schools Commission legislation. I think that the last  speaker,  in making his remarks on academic education, forgot a very important thing: It may be my opinion that someone ought not to study law because the country has enough lawyers - 
-As the honourable gentleman suggests, it may already have too many. But that ought not to be my decision if I am Minister for Education. People have the right to choose their careers. Admittedly greater pressure was put onto the resources when universities, colleges of advances education and technical colleges were made free. I dislike the rather flimsy suggestion that there has been too great an emphasis in these fields, when the experiment of 1974-75 of making tertiary education free, is, after all, very new. 
I think that the interesting thing is the position taken by the States in this matter. Under the old system for universities or colleges of advanced education, the Commonwealth found a dollar for every dollar found by the States. In the recurring expenditure, the Commonwealth found a dollar for every $ 1.85 found by the States. So the Treasury was never critical of Universities Commission reports or of Colleges of Advanced Education Commission reports because before the Treasury got a look at them, 6 State Treasuries had engaged in a blocking activity. I will not name the State nor the Under-Secretary of Treasury who, whenever the Universities Commission visited his State, would say: 'Don't you come down here recommending great expenditure on universities or colleges of advanced education. Don't forget you have only got to find a dollar and we have to find $1.85'. When the Commonwealth became the exclusive authority to finance tertiary education, my, what a transformation came over the scene. I was perpetually bombarded by  Mr Thompson  and  Sir Eric  Willis when he was Minister for Education. They even advocated that the Teachers' College in Armidale, a city of 15 000 people, should get a $lm library and that the University of New England, a few miles away in the same city and training 3 times as many teachers as the Teachers' College, should get a $1.5m library. The idea of any Under-Secretary of a State Treasury advocating such expenditure before it became a matter of sending the bill to the Commonwealth is fantastic. It always amused me that the standard comment from the then Opposition benches while I was Minister for Education was how responsible the States were and how irresponsible the Commonwealth was. Of course this was States grants legislation and the States were spending the money themselves. This legislation involved grants to the States. 
My immediate successor as Minister for Education,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle, for whom I have a very great deal of respect, nevertheless used to tell a marvellous little story about the wastefulness of Commonwealth expenditure. She told the story of how some school in a remote area where television reception could not be received had obtained a television set. I should like to explain that we did not decide who got television sets. The grants for providing equipment in schools were made to the States. If the States themselves did not know the areas within their own borders which received television reception, that was hardly our responsibility. In any event, I think there was a vast advance in education during our period of office. 
I know that if we say the words 'free enterprise', we ought immediately to genuflect. I am quite prepared to genuflect to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I should like to say something about free enterprise in the book trade and about inflation. Certain unions, because of demarcation disputes, left the concrete running in university buildings, including university hospital buildings, so it all had to be chopped out. That drove up the cost and was a factor in inflation. But the boys involved were pikers compared with those in the Australian book trade which surely must be one of the most unscrupulous in the world. When we came to power, $A100 was equal to US$119. Within 9 months, $A100 was equal to US$148.75. We in the education field sat back confidently to watch the fall in the price of books. Did we see it? We certainly did not. The book trade simply pocketed the difference. As an alternative to reading the Budget when I was ill recently, I bought an Agatha Christie whodunit to read in bed. The English price marked on that book was '30p which is equal to 48 Australian cents. The marked price for retail to the Australian market was 95c. A member of my household who had befriended a naval officer in Australia and who wished to present him with that current annual Jane 's Fighting Ships- a technical naval publicationsaw that it was marked at $72 a copy in Australian bookshops. He bought it in England by post, paid the freight and all charges to have it delivered to Australia and it cost only $31. This case is very typical of the position regarding highly technical or educational material. I am not surprised that organisations like the Canberra Parents and Citizens Association can pay the fares of book buyers to Britain, pay their accommodation costs in Britain, pay the freight on the books and bring them to Australia for very much less than they can buy them in Australian bookshops. I know all about inflation and I know what the economist theorists say about a revaluation upwards being an answer to inflation. I think revaluations upwards and cuts in tariffs in many cases simply added to the pocketing of the sums of money that were earned by the people retailing. In the field of education this situation was very serious indeed. 
The Government has what is called a rolling triennium instead of a fixed triennium. Under the fixed triennium- the system which existed under our predecessors and in respect of which we introduced indexation in 1974- the allocation for universities was $1,1 06m. Indexation put that figure up by $306m. There were some new initiatives but by and large the expenditure was locked off from the impact of inflation. Equally, in the field of advanced education the expenditure envisaged for the triennium was $462m. We took on board the teachers' colleges and then that figure became $842m under the impact of teachers' colleges and indexation. So they were immunised. 
That was what is called the fixed triennium. The Government has rejected the fixed triennium as unwise and it says it has a rolling triennium. There are 2 possible explanations of the rolling triennium; it is the rolling stone that gathers no moss or it is the snowball which in rolling gets larger and becomes an avalanche. The Universities Commission does not seem to be terribly optimistic that it is the snowball that is envisaged over the next 3 years. The Universities Commission was very moderate in its estimates for the triennium. We had to suspend the program for the triennium basically because of the leap in the recommendations for technical and further education capital from $46m in 3 years to $2 3 4m in  2lA  years and then the recommendation of the Advanced Education Commission to double the expenditure from $840m in a triennium to $ 1,680m and envisaged $584m worth of capital. To take as an example, one which my colleague from Swan would know quite well, WAIT, the Western Australian Institute of Technology, alongside Murdoch University, the Advanced Education Commission recommended $26m worth of building for the Western Australian Institute of Technology and $13m was recommended by the Universities Commission for Murdoch. WAIT is a quite developed place; Murdoch is a new place and the $ 13m was easier to justify and was a more moderate figure. But my point is that in a small locality there were 2 institutions competing for labour and materials. 
We suspended the triennial program- not getting rid of it or replacing it with a rolling one but because the sums asked for, especially on the capital side, were too great- and we tried to make an arrangement between the Commissions so that they would not compete with one another for capital. 
I do not need to stress that problem. Anyone who looks at the graph on page 5 of the report of the Universities Commission will see the depressing fall that it anticipates in capital construction. This is serious. Do not make distinctions between technical and university education. There are many technical faculties of the utmost importance in universities- veterinary science, engineering, medicine and so on. 
Sociology is unpopular in the Soviet Union. I hope the honourable gentleman has not the same reasons for making it so. 
I ask the Prime Minister Was the Fretilin radio at any time informed that the wave length upon which it was operating was identical with an Australian Government defence wave length? Does the suppression of this radio mean that the Government recognises Indonesia as the legitimate authority in East Timor and that the radio has been suppressed for inciting opposition to it? 

 -Mr Chairman, I think the honourable member for 
Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is mistaken in his origins of the turtle farm project. It originated not during the period of the former Labor Government but before that Government came into office. I do not say that is a criticism of our predecessors. I do not believe that the failure of a particular Aboriginal project proves anything when these are initial experiments designed to give the people management of their own business affairs. I wish to make an observation, because it seems to me that there are too many hear, hears' in this chamber whenever anybody suggests that some aspect of affairs, especially those related to Aborigines and mining projects in the Northern Territory, should be handed to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. 
Honourable gentlemen opposite have stressed again and again the sound instinct of the Australian people as shown in referendums. The honourable member for Griffith in concluding his speech referred to a gallup poll indicating what the Australian people wanted. The biggest gallup poll on Aboriginal affairs that we have ever had was the referendum of 1 967. It has been the only referendum where an affirmative vote was carried in every polling place in Australia. The decision of the Australian people was that this national Parliament was responsible for the Aboriginal people. There is no reason why anybody in this Parliament should say 'hear hear' when other people in this Parliament suggest that some of these responsibilities for the Aboriginal people should be handed to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. There has been a very clear declaration, and I believe that there is a reason for that very clear declaration and that this Parliament has never yet really taken into consideration what that reason is. 
We have spoken about advancing Aborigines in civilisation. We have spoken at various times about assimilating Aborigines.  Sir Paul  Hasluck gave very refined definitions of what 'assimilation' meant. We have spoken about integrating Aborigines. We have spoken about all the decisions we will make on behalf of Aborigines at the drop of a hat. But I believe that the reason for the emphatic decision of the Australian people was the plain view that Aborigines are entitled to a new basis of treatment, and that new basis of treatment is compensation. Do not let us be mealy-mouthed about the fact that the Aborigines are a conquered people and have always been treated as a conquered people. When I was Minister for Education the first decision that we made regarding Aborigines concerned their right, if Aboriginal parents nominated it, to an education in their own languages. When the Welsh were denied an education in their own language in primary schools they regarded this as a symptom of their conquest by the English people. It was an aspect of being treated as a conquered people. 
I remember that during the last World War we could write articles about how the Germans in certain occupied areas, the Sudeten areas of Czechoslavakia, suppressed the Czech language. We said: 'Oh dear, how dreadful', quite failing to realise that in all our dealing with the Aborigines we had suppressed their languages, we had denied them their right to be considered as a distinctive people. They are a distinctive people and they have the right to be considered as a distinctive people. We have dispossessed them of land through a mystic rigmarole, that George III, by the Grace of God, owns it all. That is just as mystic as the idea that the Aborigines own it because of some possession in a dreamtime. But one set of mysticism was backed by guns and the other set of mysticism was not backed by guns, and that determined where the land question lay. 
We have been in the process, in the last Parliament under the previous Government and now in this Parliament under the present Government, of acknowledging Aboriginal land titles. When I first raised this question of land titles in this chamber in August 1952 I was told that it was impossible to devise a tribal title. When I was a member of the select committee which inquired into Aboriginal voting rights, one expert after another from the Attorney-General's Department in Darwin or anywhere else said: 'You cannot devise a tribal title'. Now we know that we can devise a tribal title and that we can regard Aborigines as having some kind of collective ownership. That procedure of giving them ownership ought to be carried out with the utmost sensitivity without, every time when some mining company's interest may be involved, saying: 'Let us hand this over to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory because we know that they will surrender to mining companies at the drop of a hat'. Some people say: Let them decide whether Aborigines have sacred sites or not'. This is happening in our own Northern Territory. We have a much more problematical relationship with the States which do not acknowledge and, as far as I can see, will not acknowledge Aboriginal tribal titles. Whatever we are aiming to do for the Aborigines, we have to regard it as axiomatic that we owe them some compensation. 
If one goes into the north of my State of Western Australia one sees rock paintings, which do not date back out of the lifetime of people now alive, of Aborigines chained together and being pushed into gorges. In the north of my State there are extermination policies that are comparatively recent, and there are such policies within living memory in Queensland. These people are owed compensation. If we can make that the basis of our thinking instead of integration or assimilation or some other nice arrangement that we have, I think we will get a different approach. I do not believe that just throwing money is the answer to anything. There are some problems with which Aborigines cannot cope. When the report on voting rights for Aborigines was being debated in this chamber I did not believe that the first thing that should happen to Aborigines was that drinking rights should be extended to them. The first rights which they were given by the Commonwealth and the States were fornication rights, so that it was no longer a crime for a white man to cohabit with an Aboriginal woman. Then they were given drinking rights and voting rights. The glorious attraction of those 3 points was that none of them cost the Treasury a brass razoo. The Commonwealth and the States have been very much slower in giving Aborigines anything that would cost the Treasury anything or in acknowledging their title to the ownership of anything in Australia. 
I am not making an attack on the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  but I believe that he has made this fundamental switch- I know that his predecessors had, whether they would put it in these words or not- to the fact that we owe the Aboriginal people some distinct compensation. As I mentioned at the outset, it was for this reason that the matter of Aborigines was delegated to this Parliament. The Australian community has been terribly suspicious of granting any powers to the Federal Parliament in all the referenda that have been held over the years, but suddenly there was this emphatic protest at the whole course of Australia's relationship with the Aboriginal people. We really need to make a scientific attack on this question. We can tie ourselves in knots when we are trying to deal with this problem. 
When it was revealed to us when we were in Government- it came through the education sectionthat large numbers of Aboriginal children in the Kimberleys were being born with brain damage, I wrote to the then Prime Minister and he asked for a conference of 3 Federal Ministers and 3 State Ministers. It transpired that a State civil servant, a resident medical officer, was given finance to recruit young doctors. We could do that in our relationship with the State of Western 
Australia. There were doctors in the Northern Territory who wanted the recruitment of doctors who were not committed permanently to being State or Federal civil servants, but we found that under our own Public Service Board regulations what we were doing by giving grants to Western Australia we could not do to make a scientific attack on Aboriginal health in the Northern Territory. I think that we can look at the need for recruiting the ablest young doctors to go and deal with Aboriginal health. There are too many areas in which we get reports of brain damage through pre-natal malnutrition or for other reasons. I think that one other reason why the Australian people gave this Federal Parliament power to deal with Aborigines was that they believed that at the national level there could really be a scientific attack on Aboriginal needs. That is the way in which we ought to try to assess these estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
-The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  spoke of Victoria's capital expenditure on education. He described how the ability of the Victorian Government to construct educational buildings was being reduced because, more than almost anybody else on earth, the Government had sought to reduce the pupil-teacher ratio. I would say that a more significant reason is that Victoria has the Victorian Department of Public Works to construct its schools. Let me give the honourable gentleman a simple illustration. I shall not call them educational reformists but there appear to be a number of young gentlemen who believe the best thing to do to Victorian schools is to burn them. Victoria has suffered terribly from fire bugs. One of them burnt down the Princes Hill High school.  Mr Thompson,  the Victorian Minister of Education, in a moment of inadvertence said: 'We will rebuild that school in 2 years'. The head of the Department of Public Works said: 'No, you will not. It takes 5 years to build a high school'. 
Because  Mr Thompson  had publicly committed himself, for once he was allowed to go outside the system. He happened to use a building consultant,  Mr Evan  Walker, who later became a Labor Party candidate but who is a world expert on the construction of schools. The school was built in less than 2 years. Money was returned to the Victorian Government and the school received an architectural prize. I should say that in school buildings the dollar goes a shorter distance in Victoria than in any other State. In point of fact, in the construction of schools the record of the Victorian Government for its Educational Department buildings as compared with independent schools is quite disgraceful. The Commonwealth dollar invested in libraries for both government and non-government schools went far further in non-government schools because of the rigidity of the Victorian capital system. The other thing was a complete tragedy in what were the record grants given for the construction of technical schools. In the triennium $46m was provided for the construction of technical schools. Of this amount $7m was unspent. The 3 States which could not spend their money were New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. In the greater grants for capital in the last year of complete expenditure which I remember as Minister, for every 10 Commonwealth dollars spent on New South Wales technical education buildings there was one State dollar. For every 4 Commonwealth dollars spent in Victoria on technical education buildings there was one State dollar. In South Australia, for every one Commonwealth dollar there were 4 State dollars spent. South Australia actually used the Commonwealth grants as an addendum. The other States used the grant as a substitution. I think that was a real tragedy. 
The honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson)  made a number of allusions which I need to comment upon. Neither the writers of the  Bulletin,  the honourable member for Tangney nor anybody else knows objectively whether standards of literacy and numeracy in Australia are advancing or receding. The United Kingdom carried out exact tests on 1 1 -year olds in 1948. These tests were repeated just before the Plowden report in 1965. The English reading age of 11 -year olds advanced by 17 months in that time. Since then they have apparently stood still. That is a tragedy because there are greater demands on the child skills today than there were in the past. If one had a reading age of 9 in 1949 one could read the London  Daily Mirror.  But even the London  Daily Mirror  required a reading age of 13 in 1974. Similarly, all the newspapers of the United Kingdom have advanced. In 1 949, 10 per cent of jobs in the United Kingdom could be held by a person who could simply sign his name. More recently, only 4 per cent of jobs could be held by such people. A person who died last year had filled in seventeen times as many forms as one who died in 1945. So clearly there are greater social demands upon one's capacity to read. 
The honourable member for Tangney spoke about pre-school education. When the Australian Labor Party came to power it had the rather ambitious aim of spreading in 6 years preschool education on the Canberra level throughout Australia. I think it would take at least twelve. One thing we did was to try to get preschool teachers. They received no tertiary allowance when we came to power. We put them onto tertiary allowance without means test. They were the only tertiary students who did not face the means test. That test has now been restored. Whether that is justified or not, it will not have the tendency to accelerate the recruitment of preschool teachers. The honourable member for Tangney apparently has an illusion about the Schools Commission. He thinks that its job is to see about reading, literature and numeracy standards in schools. The Commission does not administer schools. There are the State and private structures of schools. They state their needs. The Schools Commission recommends on those needs. The Commission does not go into the school room to determine teaching methods or decide whether what is being done is good. Then the honourable gentleman seemed to speak with some hostility about expenditure on tertiary and post-secondary education because it reduced the expenditure on primary and secondary education. If the Commonwealth fully assumes the burden of tertiary education, surely the honourable gentleman recognises that it releases State funds. If the State Government of Western Australia no longer has to finance the University of Western Australia or the Murdoch University does it then not have funds it can spend in some other area? Obviously it has: So the honourable gentleman 's point was quite false. 
The only question I would like to ask concerns the triennium. When the previous Government could not face the tremendous recommendations of the Technical and Further Education Commission, which recommended a quintupling of capital expenditure, and the recommendations of the Commission on Advanced Education, which recommended a doubling, we suspended the triennium for a year with the intention of restoring it. We intended to restore the triennium, not to replace it with a new concept. The intimations that were made by honourable gentlemen opposite were to the effect that they would restore the triennium. Everybody would have assumed that they were talking about the triennium of the past. 
The triennium that we inherited when we came into power was one in which we determined expenditure- I will talk of universities only- over 3 years. We adjusted it so that there would be an indexation. The triennium for universities comprised expenditure of $1,0 16m, as left by our predecessors. We brought in indexation to allow for increased building and other costs, and the result was an additional $300m which had to be found. Indexation started in 1974 and applied to all the commissions. It was fair enough to assume that when this Government said that it would restore indexation after its year's suspension that that was what it was talking about, but then we began to hear that indexation did not encourage economy and now we have what is called the rolling triennium. 
There are 2 sorts of rollers- rolling stones that gather no moss and the snowball that rolls and greatly accumulates. I am sorry to say that the rolling triennium is obviously not the snowball that rolls and greatly accumulates because the rolling triennium is simply an annual fixation of what is to be received. It is adjusted each year. It is not the triennium which the Government said it would restore. It is not the old triennium of the past and it is not our triennium which was this Government's earlier concept plus indexation. It is in fact the annual fixing of expenditure for the commissions and it is precisely the same as the triennium which was suspended, the triennium which we introduced when we could not face the enormous increases in expenditure that were recommended and we asked for a second set of recommendations. I hope that the Government will restore the triennium, at least its own, so that the commissions will know where they stand over the 3 years. I am afraid also that in a period of inflation, if the Government is to do anything effective it will need to restore indexation as well. 
I ask the Minister for Health whether it is a fact that more than a decade ago Professor Ida Mann of the University of Western Australia discovered a cure for trachoma which almost eliminated trachoma at that time from Aboriginal children. Is her method or any better method being applied in the Northern Territory? Can any action be taken to recruit doctors to work temporarily as a task force, as they do in the north of Western Australia, without committing them to joining the Commonwealth Public Service, to attack trachoma and other health problems among Aborigines in the Northern Territory? 
-Two key issues are raised in this matter of public importance. One is the idea of a definite commitment by the Government and the other is the appointment of a select committee of the House of Representatives. I am sure that you,  Mr Speaker,  will recall that over many years successive governments of Australia followed a definite commitment, which was originally entered into by the Chifley Government in 1946, to eliminate tuberculosis. Having nailed its flag to the mast, that tuberculosis had to be eliminated, the Commonwealth Government as an entity found differing strategies from time to time as to what course to take in this regard. What was then revolutionary in Australia's treatment of disease was the idea that if a man was suffering from tuberculosis he could leave work, his family would be supported, he would get a full income and, therefore, he would not be under economic pressure not to obtain treatment. 
It is an unhappy fact that this idea was not extended originally to the Aboriginal community. One of the reasons why it was not extended to the Aboriginal community was that if the European basic wage was given to Aborigines over many of the years since 1946, they would be receiving, as sufferers from tuberculosis, an amount far in advance of what they had been receiving over a great part of that time. The amount they had been receiving would not have been a quarter of the European basic wage of that era. It is probable that because these strategies were not applied with the same resolution to the Aboriginal community in relation to tuberculosis, almost the only sufferers from tuberculosis in the Australian community are Aborigines. That is one aspect of the subject now before us. If the Government makes the decision, without as yet knowing how to implement it, that it is going to eliminate these scourges from the Aboriginal community and nails that flag to the Commonwealth mast, from time to time it will develop the strategies which will achieve that result. 
The second aspect of this resolution is the idea that a select committee of the House of Representatives should be established. I remind the House that a select committee of the House of Representatives revolutionised the constitutional status of Aborigines. I refer to the Select Committee on Voting Rights of Aborigines. A select committee of the House of Representatives made recommendations which are in the process of revolutionising our concepts of Aboriginal land ownership. This was a select committee to inquire into Aboriginal land rights. There was also a select committee to investigate grievances of the Yirrkala Aboriginal people and it began the process of the rectification of some of their grievances. So, if there is a Government commitment and an all-Party committee of this House to monitor what is being done and what should be done, I believe we will have real traction in the assault on the debilitation of the Aboriginal community by these diseases. 
The appropriations for Aboriginal affairs have been greatly increased. It is true that in the current Budget it was envisaged that there would be a cut of $33m in the appropriation for Aboriginal affairs. It now stands at a cut of $8m. I realise that with an inflation rate of 13 per cent the cut is bigger than $8m. Generally speaking, in the years of the Labor Government and before that the Commonwealth has appropriated much greater sums for expenditure on Aboriginal affairs. But the fact remains that as soon as there is some sort of scientific survey of the health of the Aboriginal people what is always revealed is disaster. The resident medical officer for the Kimberleys, a servant of the State Government of Western Australia, revealed late in 1974 in a seminar that half of the Aboriginal children of the area were born with brain damage. Action was taken by the Whitlam Government, in conjunction with the Government of Western Australia, to set about the rectification of that situation. We now have the results of a survey conducted in the Northern Territory. 
When  Dr Spargo  in Western Australia was given some financial aid that enabled him to recruit a force of young doctors who did not have to commit themselves to becoming Commonwealth or State civil servants but who could go to the Kimberleys as a task force- they might have been on the job for only a year, 2 years or 3 years -and tackle at the work place the problems of Aboriginal diseases there began for the first time to be a task force on the spot. This could not be done in the Commonwealth sphere- not in the time before the Whitlam Government fell, anyway- because there were problems with the Commonwealth Public Service. But those can be rectified. 
I draw the attention of the House to an article in the  Canberra Times  on this subject. It reads: 
If the health services around here - 
Referring to the Northern Territory- were delivering the same sort of health care to animals instead of to Aborigines, the RSPCA would prosecute them ', Professor Fred Hollows, the director of an eye-health survey and treatment team at present in Central Australia, says. 
The article continues: 
Tracoma- a curable eye disease also known as 'sandy blight '-which can lead to blindness, was raging, more than half the Aborigines under 21 having active trachoma follicles. Of the 139 children under 1 checked, the figure was 62 percent 
Virtually all the black adults seen - 
These people were in the Yuendumu area- had scarring of their eyelids and across the eyes. 
One in five of the children had perforated eardrums, easily the lowest rate of all the black communities visited. The perforation rate was usually at least one in three, 70 per cent of children under 1 1 being affected in one area. 
The article goes on to say: 
The figures show central Australian Aborigines to be crippled by ill-health, with diseases and conditions of a sort almost eliminated in white Australia. 
Referring to the blindness figures, the article states: 
The blindness figures were understated in many communities, with hopelessly blind elderly people not attending for examination. At least the same number of people in each community were blind in one eye. 
With adult Aborigines in these settlements, virtually all had trachoma scarring and the development of a pannus (a white band, actually a scar, spreading down the eye). Other eye diseases and conditions, often operable, were also marked. 
With the figures on perforated eardrums, it was noted that younger people were more affected than older people. 

 Dr David Moran, who was working with Professor Hollow's team, is reported as having said that poor education, virtually a total absence of housing, toilets or clean water, high unemployment, racial tension, gross poverty and the inability of existing medical services to cope were the problems. He made this significant statement: 
Medical care systems in the area run against the thinking of such bodies as the World Health Organisation in that they are developed 'from the top'- with expensive institutions and centralised clinics- rather than ' from the bottom '. 
Most of the Aboriginal people live outside of these central areas and prefer health care near to their homes. Patients should be treated as close to their homes as possible in the smallest, cheapest, most humbly staffed and most simply equipped unit that is capable of looking after them adequately. 
The report in the  Canberra Times  of 19 October goes on to say that it was one thing to put magnificent hospitals in places like Alice Springs and Katherine but Aborigines could not use those institutions. I remember opening a library conference in Australia at which one of the matters discussed was how the wage earning, workingclass, underprivileged Europeans in Australian cities were afraid to approach libraries, which they regarded as part of the institutions of authority, and inquire of a librarian about a book. If that is true of people of inadequate background, inadequate education and so on who are European, how much more is it true that Aborigines do not sense that they need to go in to report at clinics that they have such things as leprosy, serious as that is, let alone some of the lesser things, such as trachoma, which by slow development can cause blindness. I draw the attention of honourable members to the fact that Emeritus Professor Ida Mann of the University of Western Australia discovered a cure for trachoma which is used all over the world and which, wherever it has been applied in Aboriginal communities, has effected a cure. It is singular that she has not been honoured for what was a discovery of world significance. 
I was interested to note that a Senate committee inquiring into the subject of Aboriginal health had this to say: 
That governments should publicly announce goals for Aboriginal health improvement, and dates by which these goals should be achieved, and that all government activity in the health field should clearly relate to the achievement of one or more of these goals. 
That is, in other words, a request to nail the flag to the mast. There were suggestions in the report in the  Canberra Times  that Aboriginal people, including some whom we would regard as witch doctors, require training and have asked for training in simple health procedures, that their own people have confidence in them, that they could carry out these simple health procedures and that very often they would prevent the development of more serious conditions. Trachoma is really an unnecessary scourge. It causes blindness. It is a disease that can be cured. We know the cure for it. It has been effected here. I realise that there are reasons for the existence of this condition- not living in houses, flies shifting the disease around and so on. Nevertheless the fact remains that if treatment were available on the spot there would be a vast reduction in the incidence of these sorts of illnesses. 
We cannot possibly say that we cannot adjust our health services to meet the needs of a people who may still be isolated and remote. Many of the problems of Aborigines have developed because they do not have any tradition of stationary living. Nomadic people do not have the hygenic problems of people who stay stationary in a settlement. When people whose hygienic ideas were developed in moving on from place to place and never living with the consequences of a community being at one place for any length of time the hygienic problems were not acute. But the moment, with such traditions, they became a relative stationary population disaster ensued. Leprosy, for instance, could not spread, except when they were brought together in settlements, without other measures being taken. 
What we have is a monument to a number of things. We accept that Australian medical practitioners do not go to European rural communities in the numbers that are needed, but that does not necessarily mean disaster in country areas. We have solved this problem over a number of years by permitting foreign doctors who were not allowed to practise in the cities to practise in the country. By some strange device known only to the Australian Medical Association their scientific qualifications disappeared when they came near the General Post Office of a great city and reappeared when they moved away from it. But when this inadequacy of medical force is applied to the Aboriginal community it becomes entirely disastrous. Yet I think that experience has shown that if one does not ask doctors to commit themselves over long periods of time one will find that there are many bright young ones with new ideas and new methods who are keen to go and get experience under the conditions that exist in Aboriginal communities. On a temporary basis with a constantly changing personnel in a task forces one can get a force that can tackle the problems of Aboriginal health. That is the purpose of this appeal. I believe that a select committee of this House would find many health strategies of value for the Aboriginal people. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement on behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
-May I suggest to the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  that he reverse the role of performer and audience in relation to his children's reading matter. If I understood him correctly, he said that it was a delight for him to read to his children from all the modern publications that were now used in schools. The real way of advancing children's reading skill, basic to education, I would suggest to the honourable member, is for them to read to him. Research on this aspect has been supported by the Thomas Coram Child Centre at London University which has just completed a very interesting study of British schoolchildren in Dagenham. The group of children selected had a comparable socioeconomic background. The best readers in the area were those who read regularly to their parents at the time of the study. The next best were those who read occasionally to their parents at the time of the study. The next best were those who had read regularly to their parents when in infants classes. The next best were those who had read occasionally to their parents when in infants classes. The poorest achievers in reading were those who had never read to their parents at all. This would suggest that the best experiment for the honourable member for Brisbane to try would be not to read to them but to encourage the children to read to him. I am sure that the honourable member for Brisbane will find using this method that there will be an advance in the children's reading age. 
I wonder how soon it will be before the honourable member for Brisbane finds out that there is no Commonwealth expenditure on education in the State of Queensland. The honourable member will not be invited by Queensland State Government authorities to the opening of anything which has been built in Queensland with Commonwealth money because Commonwealth money will not be acknowledged to exist in Queensland. The honourable member will have a chance of being invited to the opening of Catholic schools whose authorities acknowledge Commonwealth grants but neither he nor  Senator Carrick  will ever have acknowledged by the Queensland Government any Commonwealth expenditure on any State schools. I admire the honourable senator's enthusiasm for Queensland and what the State will get in respect of technical and further education. However, if the honourable gentleman cares to compare last year's Budget payment to the States with this year's Budget payment to the States he will find that once more Queensland has not completely spent the capital that was available to it from the Commonwealth for the construction of technical and further education colleges. This is additional to the fact that, with the adroitness for which the Premier of Queensland is notable, that State is concealing technical education in colleges of advanced education. The more technical education work which Queensland puts into colleges of advanced education, the more the entire tab is picked up by the Commonwealth; whereas, as the honourable member so rightly observes, if this work is categorised as in the field of technical and further education, there is a State obligation to maintain its effort. 
The honourable gentleman will find that the States are not very keen to carry their obligations, especially in the field of technical education. I noticed the hopeful statement made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  when introducing this Bill, and no doubt it was the same speech as was made by  Senator Carrick  in the Senate. The Minister said: 
The prime responsibility for technical and further education rests with the States and these amounts are supplementary to the States' own efforts in this area of education. 
If Queen Mary had 'Calais' written on her heart, I would have this expression which the Minister used written on my heart because, in the field of technical and further education, in the cases of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria while I was the Minister, the more the Commonwealth did in the field of capital grants for TAFE the less they spent of their own resources. A position was reached where $10 in Commonwealth funds was being spent on technical colleges in New South Wales for every $1 being spent by the State for that purpose. I am speaking now of capital funds. In Victoria $4 Commonwealth funds was spent for each $ 1 provided by the State. A State which did play the game was South Australia which spent $3.50 for every $1 provided by the Commonwealth. 
I quite agree that it would be very good if we could induce the States to continue to maintain their TAFE capital effort, including the field of residentials for technical education. But we need to be careful about some of these comparisons. To begin with, when we are cheerfully comparing what is to be spent this year with what was spent last year it might be wise to look at what was finally appropriated last year to see whether the States actually spent what was available. Otherwise we would be comparing what was actually spent with what the Government hoped in future to make available and not with what was made available to the States in the last financial year. I will always remember being denounced for providing inadequate capital grants for technical education amounting to $46m in a triennium when 3 States had returned $7m unspent because they did not have the organisation to do the authorised building or possibly because basically they were not then interested in TAFE. 
The other matter on which we need to be on guard when speaking about technical and further education expenditure, is how much of it represents a real advance and how much represents a desperate attempt to catch up with enrolments. In my period as Minister for Education, enrolments in technical and further education rose from 400 000 to 705 000. So, the increase in capital from $24m to $35m for technical education is in part an effort to accommodate this greatly increased enrolment. In our period in office we were not under-estimating technical education. We came into a very defective situation with regard to it. Technical fees were abolished- this, of course, added to our problems because it increased enrolments- and financial support to the States in this TAFE sector increased by 350 per cent in monetary units from $ 1 9m in 1 972-73 to $7 1 m in 1 974-75. 
I notice the persistence with which  Senator Carrick  has been saying that we cut expenditure on technical education. I do not know what he is talking about. If he is comparing 2 years of actual expenditure, there was neither a cut in expenditure nor a cut in recurring expenditure by the Commonwealth. The total amount provided for technical education rose from nearly $45 m in 1974-75 to $65m in 1975-76. Both capital and recurrent expenditures were increased. However, if he is talking about a cut from what was recommended by the Richardson Commissionand half the time this is what is being said- the late Labor Government found itself unable to face the expenditures recommended by the Richardson Commission. 
I have noticed a tendency to refer caustically to the Treasury in the course of debates here. The Treasury is a most villainous body, as we all know. Sometimes, however, the Treasury represents a chilling blast of reality clearing the fog of false hopes. The Richardson report recommended capital grants to the States of $234m for building technical and further education colleges. Being the Minister and having to make a case for that when in the last completed triennium the States had not spent $46m in 3 yearsthis was a recommendation for $234m to be spent in 2 years- was somewhat difficult; perhaps some Treasury criticisms had justification. Anyway, we could not see the rapid mobilisation of labour and materials to make so vast an increase in technical and further education expenditure. I do not expect enrolments in technical and further education, even part time, to continue to rise at the rate of 100 000 a year. In fact, the Technical and Further Education Commission envisages an increase in enrolments of about 85 000 over a triennium which is a much slower rate than increases in enrolments in the past triennium. I think, however, that this is a very great under-estimate of demand. 
I believe that the most responsible elements among the young people who are unemployed and the most responsible elements among the young people who are in unsatisfactory jobs will be seeking to upgrade their qualifications. Therefore, I believe that as economic pressures increase there will be a corresponding increase in the demand for technical and further education. I do not want to labour this point any further, but honourable gentlemen opposite refer with pride to increases of 3.2 per cent in real education expenditure, and I accept the sincerity of that line of comment. It may be a 3.2 per cent increase in real monetary units. But honourable members opposite must also recognise that enrolments are not blocked and if there is a very large increase in enrolments, as there will be, an increase of 3.2 per cent in real money units of expenditure will be a reduced expenditure per capita. Therefore, a larger student body is not likely to have its needs met by such a small percentage increase in real expenditure. 
I now wish to turn attention to one technical college that particularly interests me. I refer to the Katherine Rural College which, with agricultural and technical courses and with its planned intention to meet the needs of young people in the Northern Territory, including young Aboriginal people, represents an important Commonwealth initiative in techical and further education. We cannot attach any blame to the States if this college does not proceed because education in the Northern Territory is exclusively a Commonwealth responsibility. I draw the attention of the House to an analytical breakdown of Northern Territory Aboriginal poulation by age relevant to the likely demand for this sort of education. In the Northern Territory there are 1501 Aborigines between the ages of 25 years and 29 years, 1849 Aborigines in the ,20 years to 24 years age group, 225 1 Aborigines in the 15 years to 19 years age group, 281 1 Aborigines in the 10 years to 14 years age group, 3348 Aborigines in the 5 years to 9 years age group, and 4029 Aborigines in the 4 years and under age group. That population pyramid shows a rapid increase in the youthful sector of the population. There is a tremendous need among Aborigines, apart from literacy in their own languages and in English, for special forms of education. The Katherine Rural College Planning Committee in its report quoted a statement in the recent report of the Schools Commission Consultative Group as follows: 
We recognise that a serious problem exists in the field of technical education with regard to Aboriginal people. In our  experience one feature of successful schemes for the education of Aborigines has been the recognition that a special approach is necessary. 
Then the Planning Committee went on to quote from the report of the Woodward Aboriginal Lands Rights Commission as follows: 
There is no chance of any significant increase in the number of workers required in future, since the trend is for the industry to rely more on capital expenditure and less on labour. On the other hand, the number of jobs available to Aborigines could be increased by vocational training of Aborigines in such fields as truck driving, mechanical maintenance, building construction and bookkeeping. 
The Planning Committee made a number of recommendations which I very strongly endorse. One of the recommendations was: 
Aboriginal students be encouraged to enrol in short inten'sive courses at the College, with the bulk of the training being given in the home community. 
Another recommendation was: 
Selection of students for courses be done by consultation between the College, prospective students, community councils and traditional Aboriginal leaders. 
At the Yirara College for Aboriginal students near Alice Springs this consultation with the tribal leaders has proved to be very fruitful. One other recommendation of the Planning Committee was: 
The College continually liaise with Aboriginal communities to ascertain training needs and that nomination of students by communities reflect community needs and employment opportunities. 
I have concentrated exclusively in the field of technical and further education because in a debate that throws together 8 educational Bills there is not much sense in spending 2 minutes on each Bill. I appeal to the Government to commence work on the Katherine Rural College because of its great importance in the Northern Territory. The case for technical and further education was put very succinctly in the summary of the report of the Technical and Further Education Commission. It reads: 
Australia does not possess sufficient skilled manpowereven during the current economic recession which is characterised by high unemployment. This national problem is aggravated by a fall in the numbers of skilled immigrants and too few Australians undergoing skill training. 
When the Australian Labor Party came into power the reports on the state of technical education in Australia indicated that 70 per cent of the male work force and 80 per cent of the female work force had no skills. That was the reason for the 350 per cent increase in expenditure in this area. The report of the Technical and Further Education Commission also states: 
A minimum objective should be to ensure that in 1979 TAFE will be, relative to enrolments - 
Note that cautionary point- at least as well off for space and equipment as it was in 1 974 the year in which the current Commonwealth assistance program for TAFE began. The combined Commonwealth and State building programs since 1974 have failed to keep pace with actual enrolment increases in 1 973-75. 
I suggest that the situation in which New South Wales was prepared to put in towards building- the capital construction in the TAFE area- last year only $ 1 for every $ 10 contributed by the Commonwealth and Victoria was prepared to put in towards TAFE capital construction only $1 for every $4 contributed by the Commonwealth accounts for the failure of the technical and further education program to keep pace with the increased enrolments. Because of the percentage increase in our expenditure, the efforts that were made by the Commonwealth were adequate if the States had played the game, or had been capable of adequate planning. I do not say that their planning departments were always able to make more space available for technical and further education students. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has developed a reputation, very justifiably, for careful and analytical statement and for the recognition of the fact that no political parties can stunt in this Parliament with any veracity on the subject of the position of the Aborigines. The Minister made very serious misrepresentations. The honourable gentleman did not come down in the last shower. He was in this Parliament in 1972. If there was no vocational education for Aborigines in the Northern Territory, that was after 23 years of the previous Administration. I draw the attention of the honourable gentleman to the fact that every Aboriginal child in secondary education in Australia was put on a scholarship by the Australian Labor Party when in government and that the bilingual program was started for the first time in an attempt to communicate with them in their own languages. It could not have gone under 3 years much further than it has, the practical problems being what they were. 
Yirrara College was opened and it gave vocational training. There was the extension of vocational work at Kormilda and various other colleges. We also assumed responsibility for the total funding of all mission schools in the Northern Territory, treating them as if they were State schools. These were fairly generous moves into the field of Aboriginal education. I quite agree that there are tremendous problems with vocational education among the Aboriginal community in the Northern Territory. In many areas there are problems in getting any education at all to Aborigines. It is not common for the Minister to try to score Party points on Aborigines. Our puzzles about policies on Aborigines are likely to be such that those who attempt to will usually find very great disappointments as they try to find what is the best thing to be done for a community which has a background very different from our own. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Major-General Stretton, an officer of the Crown in the National Disasters Organisation, has made severe strictures on the command of the armed services in Darwin and on former Ministers who visited Darwin after cyclone Tracy late in 1974. Has the Government any attitude on these charges? If the Government endorses the charges has it considered giving the people under attack a chance to clear their names, in view of the fact that these charges are made by an officer of the Commonwealth. If the Government has any attitude to the charges what stance has it taken? 
I do not want to join issue with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  on anything that relates to Aborigines. We are 127 people in this House and we all need to be very modest in assuming that any of us are speaking for Aborigines. So what we are putting forward are tentative points of view that we are trying to vindicate. I want to turn to the reference made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory to the timing of the Labor Government's 1975 Bill. He said that we were trying to sneak it through before an election. If the honourable member for the Northern Territory reflects he will recall that the late Labor Government assumed that having been elected in May 1974, the next election would be in May 1977. 1 assure the honourable member for the Northern Territory that when the Aboriginal Land Rights Bill was brought in we did not know that the Senate was going to withhold consent for Supply and that the Governor-General was going to dismiss us. We were very far from the illusion that we could sneak anything unscrutinised through this Parliament because we had more Bills rejected in the Senate in our 3 years of government than had been rejected in the previous 72 years. So we had no illusions about lack of scrutiny. We might agree or disagree with the Senate's actions, but I am merely saying that people who experience those actions do not assume that their legislation is not going to be under parliamentary scrutiny. That is a logical enough point to make. 
The other point on which I politically disagree with the honourable member concerns the devolution of the Aboriginal authority to the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory. I do not have to argue whether it would be better or not; I merely say that on democratic grounds in May 1967 in the one referendum in the whole history of this country which one could say was really carried, because it was carried in every polling place, the Australian people expressed the opinion that the national Parliament was the proper Parliament to handle Aboriginal affairs. I do not believe that we get from that result an authority to start divesting ourselves of our responsibilities towards Aborigines. However, that is a political point of view. 
On the subject of the willingness of other people to speak on behalf of the Aboriginal people, I remember when I was a member of the 
Select Committee on Aboriginal Voting Rights, which was set up by a Liberal government, that we were proceeding down the coast of Queensland and representatives of various organisations came before us to give evidence. None of these spokesmen were ever Aborigines. I developed the habit of saying: 'Has your organisation any Aboriginal members?' They would reply: 'Yes'. Then I would ask: 'Why don't you put them in the witness box?' Then there would be consternation. As this question was asked at every place as we came down the coast later some of the organisations were shamed into putting Aborigines in the witness box, and then one realised why they had not done so before. It was because the Aborigines never stuck to anybody's policy line- not the policy line of the Communist Party, the Labor Party or the Liberal Party. They said genuinely and authentically what they believed, and the authentic voice of the Aborigine as I have heard it through interpreters- many Aborigines are magnificent orators in their own languages- never, but never, utters the slogans of New York Black Power, nor the opinions of mining companies, or of any of the other voices that are presented to us here. 
The land rights question on the whole brings to us the authentic voice of Aborigines because the people with a claim to land in reality tend to be authentically Aboriginal. The tragedy of valid action on the question of land rights is that the States of Western Australia and Queensland are not taking the fundamental action that they should be taking and action on this question is virtually confined to the Commonwealth. I believe that the clan leaders from Galiwinku in the Northern Territory wrote to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in that authentic voice when they said things such as: 
We commence by saying that it is a sad thing for us that the Balanda- That is, the whites- people are constantly changing laws. We the Aboriginal people have established laws which are permanent and we make our decisions in agreement with our laws. We are fearful that having given our decisions and come to agreement with this Government a succeeding Government may change it all again. We also say that we consider Arnhem land belongs to Yolngu people and we must retain rights to restrict entry and this should be written into this Bill, If it is not and the permit system comes under the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Legislation then the Administrator of the Permit system must ask the Yolngu (traditional owners) before he says yes. Yolngu must say yes first. If anyone wants anything (re permits) he must ask the Administrator and Adminstrator must ask us. In general matters Administrator or Minister must come back to the Yolngu traditional owners first. If anyone breaks the law that person should be fined S 1 ,000. 
I will not read all the letter but the sentiments that are expressed in it are their sentiments. One of the honourable members who has been interjecting asked why matters should not be sent to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. Both in this letter to the Minister and in the evidence given before the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders whose  chairman  is an Aboriginal,  Senator Bonner,  there seemed to be expressed a distrust of handing things over to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The Senate Committee made these comments in its recommendations and suggestions: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, which was introduced on 4 June 1976, be considered for early passage through the Parliament 
That the following matters should remain the responsibility of the Australian Parliament and Government- 
Many of them do not under this legislation- 
Protection of fauna on Aboriginal lands. 
Right of entry on Aboriginal lands. 
That is what these people have written to the Minister. The list continues: 
Protection of sacred sites. 
Processing of land claims in towns and other areas where traditional claims cannot be effectively established. 
Control of territorial seas adjoining Aboriginal land, within 2 kilometres of the boundary of the Aboriginal land. 
Rights of Aborigines to enter on pastoral leases. 
The right to rnining on Aboriginal lands. 
That funds be provided to enable Aborigines to sustain themselves on any land which they are given. 
That the Government accept cash compensation as an alternative to grants of land to Aboriginal people. 
The Committee then makes some recommendations about the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. I quite agree with the honourable member for the Northern Territory that it is no use going round inciting hatred of pastoralists or mining companies. It does not follow, however, that we are obliged to agree with everything that they say.  Senator Fred  Chaney, who is a Liberal Party member of the upper House and the son of a former Liberal Party Administrator of the Northern Territory, was moved to deal with the mining companies because of references that they had made to the folly of suggesting that Aboriginal land owners should have some say over mining of their land and suggestions that they made that this right was not accorded to Europeans.  Senator Chaney  wrote: -I refer to the statement on mining and Aboriginal land published in your newspaper by the Australian Mining Industry Council. 
The statement expresses concern about Aboriginal land owners being empowered to veto mining on their land and having in effect the right to sell rnining permits. It is said that these two powers are not available to Australians generally. 
In fact owners of land in Australia are given substantial protection against mining without the land owner's consent. The extent of protection varies from state to state, but in my state of Western Australia all developed and cultivated land is protected. Even pasture, including uncleared pasture, cannot be mined without the consent of the owner and occupier if it is in  bona fide  and regular use. 
In many cases this gives the private land owner the opportunity to bargain with miners about the terms on which consent will be given. 
If traditional Aboriginal land owners putting their land to  bona fide  and regular use in the traditional way are given the same protection, it cannot be said that Aboriginal people are given powers 'discriminately'. Indeed the use of that term is regrettable as it may well cause unnecessary resentment. 
As a lawyer I have represented white private land owners against mining companies and mining companies against white private land owners. In all cases I have found the land owners anxious to preserve their property rights and in Western Australia, at least, the law effectively enabled them to do it when the land was in  bona fide  and regular use as a farm or grazing property. 
It must be remembered also that the law must be effective to protect both black and white land owners, not only against the legitimate mining companies but also against fringe operators who appear from time to dme and particularly when the industry is booming. 
I think that was an extremely sensible statement by  Senator Chaney  pointing out that it is not unknown in Australia for land owners to have rights as against mining companies and therefore there was nothing outrageous in the proposal that they should have some authority over the land which will be declared to be theirs when they are confronted by a mining interest. 
The alterations to the Australian Labor Party's Bill that I object to strongly, for the reasons that I have already given, relate to the transfer of legislative powers from the Commonwealth Parliament to the control of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. They include the control, declaration and protection of sacred sites, the control of entry to pastoral properties, the control of entry to Aboriginal land and access to the sea adjoining Aboriginal land. It seems to me to be rather tragic that the Senate Committee picked up an opposite opinion on all of those points from the Aboriginal witnesses who apparently came before it. I think that this would justify some hesitation by the Government before going ahead with the changes that are proposed in these respects to what was in the Labor Party 's Bill. 
The map which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  was kind enough to supply to honourable members shows that very large areas of land are acknowledged as being in Aboriginal ownership by this Bill. It is so very important that other criticisms, except for the vulnerability of this matter, as I feel, to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, do not have to be made. 
The areas marked blue, which indicate land to which an Aboriginal claim is not as yet established, are, by comparison with the areas marked red, where the claim is acknowledged, comparatively small areas. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory complained about inciting hostility to pastoralists and I think he is right in doing so. But they are not necessarily people who are sensitive to the needs of the Aboriginal community. In this respect I am not trying to depict them as being more villainous than the general run of Australians. Throughout our history we have not proved ourselves to be in any respect particularly sensitive towards the Aborigines. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who recently cheered us with the statement that he made about the national trachoma and eye health program in relation to Aborigines, supported Fred Hollows, who I understand started his work under the Labor Government in the eye survey of Aboriginal people and others in the Northern Territory. 
I think that one of the tactful aspects of the activities of the body conducting that program was that it recognised that all people in the Australian outback and not just Aborigines were in need of attention to their eyes. I believe that the whole of this operation began not particularly with Aborigines in mind but with the situation in mind that there were 280 ophthalmologists in Sydney but not one in Wagga and various other places. First of all, this body began thinking in terms of a country operation and, when it was suggested that the people most in need were Aborigines, there was agreement on that point. The Commonwealth Government backed the action and this body began to develop the tact of not being divisive when it was on a station but of testing mum's eyes, dad's eyes and the children's eyes and providing them with glasses and then having access to the Aborigines. 
What depressed me in the accounts I heard of the operations was the number of Aborigines sitting about on stations who had pearly white eyes, which was simply indicative of cataracts. I am only making the point that if one is sensitive and if one has common knowledge one would know that that was a condition of cataract and that the suggestion that there be an operation and the chance to have an operation could be offered. I do not think that it was established by that expedition that all the people in the Northern Territory were particularly sensitive to the health needs of Aborigines, even when they were as completely obvious as that. I think this applies to all the Aboriginal communities. 
I am not suggesting that these divisions in the Australian community are unique between colour. I understand that it is not normal for ship owners to have dinner with waterside workers. We have all these sorts of cleavages of social association and normal social association in the Australian community. But there are large numbers of European people who do not have normal social associations with the Aborigines and therefore do not know what they think. They do not have to be remote from Aborigines in cities for that to be the truth. They can be living among them. 
I have been thanked for being the founder of the isolated children's grants and then denounced by the same people for extending scholarships to all Aboriginal children in the secondary level. That was descrimination. I say to the honourable member for the Northern Territory that if discrimination is justified I believe in it. Of course I believe in discrimination in a compensatory way. We are always discriminating in our legislation. We discriminate for people who were wounded in war with repatriation grants because they need them. Aborigines at the present time need a great deal of discrimination in their favour, and we did establish a system of compensatory education. I encountered in the Northern Territory the slogan that we were discriminating for Aborigines, and so we were. The only point was whether it was justified. They have b een discriminated against for long enough. 
I am speaking of the need for discrimination where people are in need. I am not speaking about adverse determination or accusing anybody of adverse discrimination at the moment. I was making a case for it. I found that many people who attacked me in the Northern Territory- they might have been quite righthad no idea that there was any case for any sort of compensation for Aborigines. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory must know that a Bill such as this, if it is supported widely in the Northern Territory, represents an immense movement of opinion in the Northern Territory compared with what existed in August 1 952 when I made a land rights speech in this House- so far as I know it was the first one- and the whole speech was regarded as rather ridiculous. When we were taking evidence in the Northern Territory many of the officers of the Crown held that we could not work out or devise a tribal title. Apparently we can. I merely say that this is an instance in which opinion has moved. The sad thing about this Bill is the devolution of Commonwealth responsibility back to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I believe that that is a mistake and I believe that it is against the articulated opinion of the Aboriginal people and against the articulated opinion of the Australian people in a referendum. 
-I direct my question to the Treasurer. I ask: In view of the fact that as late as last Wednesday he gave an assurance, which was published in the Press, that there would be no devaluation, does the Treasurer accept the fact that many people, accepting that as a truthful statement, would have lost very heavily from the subsequent devaluation? Is there any intention in those cases to pay compensation? Also, will the Treasurer give any indication in the future as to which of his statements may be regarded as serious statements of Government policy and which as window dressing? 
-The Opposition very much welcomes the motion that has been advanced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and notes that the terms of reference are not limited to the Northern Territory. I take it that the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs will be free to investigate Aboriginal health everywhere in Australia- the Kimberleys and elsewhere. This is very important and I hope that the Committee does receive the co-operation of the State authorities which are charged with some aspects of health in their own areas. We are particularly gratified at the wide terms of reference that have been given to the Committee. There is no doubt that there are many diseases which are almost entirely confined to the Aboriginal community. I speak of tuberculosis, yaws, leprosy, hookworm and trachoma. The numbers of people of European background who suffer from any of those diseases would be very few. The number of Aborigines who suffer from them, I understand, is quite large. I agree with the Minister that the latest report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty does give some important leads. I think that paragraph 2 (b) of the Minister's motion is very important. It states: 
Aborigines including traditional healers can participate in the development and delivery of health care services to their own communities, and in any modification of existing services. 
I hope that the recommendations will be sensitive to the status of traditional Aboriginal healers. We will have to be careful that we do not intervene in such a way that the health policies of Europeans will reduce the Aboriginal traditional healers to a menial status. The Aborigines have a great respect for their traditional healers. It is very interesting also to note that they have a great respect for older European doctors. I understand that a New Zealander, a senior doctor, who was employed by the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress or under its auspices and who is shortly to leave the area, was greatly respected because of his age and also because of his personal qualities. 
The investigation that is suggested here is overdue. We have tended to believe in the past that if we set up facilities for the whole community in the Northern Territory or elsewhere then they were accessible to Aborigines. I understand that the medical service of the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress has on its clinic books some 8600 Aborigines which shows that the Aborigines have confidence in the form of medicine which goes to them, and they are more diffident about approaching organisations like hospitals and so on at Alice Springs. Investigation as to how effectively to deliver health care to them, having regard to their traditions and their location, is a matter which I think is overdue. I should like to congratulate the Minister on the motion which he has put before the House. I should like also to express the Opposition's support for and interest in the motion. I am sure that the Opposition members of this Committee will regard it as a tremendous opportunity to serve the Aboriginal people. It will also enable the Aboriginal people to defend their health standards. I hope in the forms of health care that are set up and in the action taken that we will win their cooperation 
The last point I want to make is that I understand that under the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress the Aboriginal people themselves have very much wanted instruction for women and for men in health care. I believe that a  Dr Helen  Thorn is doing work in this regard as far as the health education of Aboriginal women is concerned. I believe there is now a need for a male doctor to help the men in health education. This is allowed for in the terms of reference and it is one gratifying feature of the Minister's motion. I am quite sure that the motion has the support of this side of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I present the interim report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on its inquiry into the Lebanon crisis. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the report? 
I ask the Minister for Health the following question: Is the ophthalmological expedition under Professor Fred Hollows still moving among Aboriginal communities, engaging in treatment of their eye diseases? If the expedition is continuing, is it receiving the cooperation of State governments in relation to access to Aboriginal communities and has it the support of State health departments? 
-I understand that a question of privilege is to be raised. Therefore I move: 
That this debate be adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like to warn the Government that if these amendments are accepted it is quite possible that the position of the Aborigines ideologically in relation to land could be more significant in respect of this country's position in the world than are the rights of mining companies or miners. In British colonial history there has always been a conflict between what I might call: The white man on the spot who knows the "nigger" and the government at home'. I believe that the latest instalment in that was the Rhodesian affair, where the white man on the spot knew and the government at home was dismissed as very theoretical. We now have another version of this in the passing of affairs to the Northern Territory Assembly. What the white man on the spot knows is what he is interested in knowing, which usually concerns some economic resource. He knows little of the motive and cares less. 
I had the privilege of taking with me to Switzerland 2 distinguished AboriginesGalurrwuy Yunupingu and Wulaymbuma Wunungmurra- to visit the Swiss company which had taken up interests in the Gove area. When in Switzerland I thought that one of the top Swiss men to whom I spoke was rather flippant about Aboriginal land. He was interested in money. As we were travelling together in a car I told him about Wulaymbuma Wunungmurra, who had refused to be used to lead a group of demonstrators for Aboriginal land rights in a procession in Melbourne. It was pretty well known that that group might have clashed with the police and Wulaymbuma Wunungmurra was opposed to any violence in the matter. I pointed out to the director of the Swiss company that if Wulaymbuma Wunungmurra had not had that perception and had led the group and been hit by the police with batons while demonstrating for his land rights the company director and all his public relations would not have made as much impact in the world as would have the violence directed against an Aborigine while demonstrating on such a matter. Yet Wulaymbuma Wunungmurra did not want to use that method to gain publicity. Others were trying to use him for that purpose. Undoubtedly the rights of the Aboriginal people to land will be swept under the carpet, just like South Africa's apartheid and many of the other racial issues which were ignored in the past and now have become major world issues. The Government has shown sensitivity to mining companies and their interests will not count nearly as much in the world's evaluation of Australia as will the extent to which Australia recognises the dignity and rights of these Aboriginal people. 
I am not sentimental about land never being developed and I do not think the Aborigines are so deluded. However, I would be very careful about brushing aside serious concerns of the Aboriginal people either for the special considerations of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory, whose existence, in my opinion, is a misfortune, or for the consideration of these 
E articular companies. The amendments are on a ne with the whittling away that has been characteristic of the amendments to the original legislation that was introduced last year. But, for heaven's sake, the Government should have seen enough of the world now to know that race issues are very vital issues indeed. There is a very simple reason. If you reject a man on the grounds of his politics or his religion, he may change them to please you, but if you reject him on the ground of race in any way whatsoever by discrimination in regard to his land rights, there is no way in the world he can change his race to please you. 
Many peoples in the world regard this whole question of race relations as the litmus test of what other nations are really on about. That is why I believe that, ideologically, all of this sort of legislation is immensely significant for this country. We will be judged as to whether we fully accept the dignity of the Aboriginal people. The States have never accepted it. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  knows that Queensland does not accept it. He knows that the claims of land rights have never been accepted by the Queensland Government and that this is quite serious for this country. If anyone liked to research the history of race relations in certain phases of Queensland's history, he could build up a more disastrous case than could be built up against South Africa. I can well imagine the sort of propaganda that might be directed against us. Before the referendum in 1967 the Aboriginal question had never been properly dealt with. It had been dealt with in a piecemeal fashion by the 6 States. The people at that referendum asked the national Parliament to recognise the full dignity within the nation of the Aboriginal people . 
We have given them voting rights, drinking rights and fornicating rights that they never used to have inter-racially, all of which did not cost the Treasury a farthing. But this question of their land rights may cost something; it may take something from the mining companies or from us or from our future prospects. I believe that the Minister is sensitive to these issues. I have very great respect for him but I think that these amendments are unfortunate if they again represent as a result of pressures that have come from mining elements, an insensitivity to what Aborigines feel about their land. If these elements are able to influence and control the Government, there will be a situation like that in Queensland and the Aborigines will get nothing at all. Most Aborigines who are working for their rights think it is unfortunate that these sentiments have developed in the Federal Parliament about the Northern Territory. They work with the State governments to try to ensure that this does not happen in States which have significant numbers of Aborigines and potentially significant land questions. With regard to this issue, the Commonwealth Government must offset the insensitive, blind and racially irresponsible policies of governments like the Government of Queensland which does not care tuppence- except on tuppeny-ha 'penny issues about governorswhat image this nation projects to the outside world. 
I believe that all the legislation the Commonwealth has attempted over the last couple of years has done something to offset that unfortunate impression. If we retreat now I believe that, ideologically, the image projected by this country into the world will be one that will be quite damaging to us. It is worth something, in our relations with a good many other countries, that we should ourselves be above suspicion on race questions. 
I have only one point in relation to the Navigation Amendment Bill, and that concerns the national maritime college in Tasmania. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  will recall that by some miracle the Bill setting up that college was one of the educational measures which the Senate did not delay or defeat, as it did with the technical education proposals, the legislation dealing with the Karmel funding and the Schools Commission legislation. The Bill relating to the national maritime college went through very quickly. I understand the site has been selected. Yet the construction of the college is being delayed. I think this is a mistake. It is important to have a first class navigational and maritime college in Australia. 
I turn now to the Historic Shipwrecks Bill. The study or knowledge of some of these early ships can have very important implications per revaluing  Australian history.  I mention in passing D 'Entrecasteaux and the French navigators who left France in 1788, the last year of the  ancien regime  to try to find traces of the Compte de la Perouse who had disappeared with his ship 

 L' Astrolabe. When I was on the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies we received information from Paris that the journals of that French expedition, which had been cast to the four winds for reasons which I will explain in a moment, had very important references to Aborigines. As D 'Entrecasteaux sailed up the east coast of Tasmania he met Aborigines. He went ashore at one place. The Aborigines stood around a pile of dried faggots. They offered him a burning brand. Assuming he was invited to light the fire, he lit it. He got. a hail of spears. He stopped any of his men from firing. They got back to the ship. When they were travelling up the coast he considered what happened. He assumed, I think, being a very sensitive man, that he had indicated an intention to stay and to take possession, by lighting the fire. He decided that next time, if there were a next time, he would not do that. Sure enough, within 2 days there was a next time. He was handed a burning brand. He handed it back. The result was that they were received as friends, given crayfish and so on. 
D 'Entrecasteaux did not survive the voyage. He died and was buried at sea. The expedition came back under the command of D'Auribeau. All of these French naval officers were aristocrats. They knew nothing about the French revolution. They got back in 1 793, the year of the terror. They were promptly arrested. I think some of them were executed. Their work was treated with contempt. It was in the phase when the French were prepared to guillotine the great chemist Lavoisier on the ground that the republic had no need of chemists. It had no need of anthropologists or navigators either. D'Auribeau 's and D 'Entrecasteaux 's books were cast to the four winds. They have only lately been brought back into the French maritime museum. A French-Canadian lady who had been studying Australian Aborigines went to Paris to look at this material. 
The wrecks are important. I think the decisive part of this Bill is clause 13, which states: 
Except in accordance with a permit, a person shall not- (a) damage or destroy a historic shipwreck or a historic relic; (b) interfere with a historic shipwreck or a historic relic; (c) dispose of a historic shipwreck or a historic relic . . . 
All of this, I think, comes from Western Australian experience. Some prize specimens have blown up wrecks that other people have discovered, got together the silver coinage, were prepared to melt it down and fake, with the old silver, silver coins, to try to sell them at a high price as having been in a rather better state of preservation, naturally, than the ones that had been lying at the bottom of the sea. They did this to get a good deal of money. What they were doing to what one might almost say were important files of Australian history was quite tragic. In 1963  Dr Philip  Playford of Perth advised the discoverers of the shipwreck of the Dutch East Indiaman  Vergulde Draeck,  or  Gilt Dragon,  that their proper course was to assign all their rights in this wreck to the Western Australian Museum. This, he said, would be proper because evidence of Australia's history of that era, the seventeenth century, was so important that it should be preserved on behalf of the nation. The discoverers were a journalist James Henderson and his sons Graeme and Alan and their friend John Cowan. I am very glad to say that they accepted the advice of  Dr Playford.  A deed of assignment was drawn up by the Crown Law Department of Western Australia and duly executed. Artefacts brought up from the wreck by this group were handed over to the Museum. 
Unfortunately the Western Australian laws were shown as hopelessly inadequate to protect this shipwreck-it was a shipwreck from 1656- from plunder by people whose object was quick profit from the sale of silver coins and other items which they retreived by blasting the site with gelignite. To complicate matters, the wreck site was about on the limit of the 3 miles from shore, giving some doubt about the application of Western Australian legal jurisdiction. Some people in Western Australia sympathised with the shipwreck plunderers. I think the people of Western Australia regarded them as another sort of miner. The people sympathised with them on the basis that they were entitled to rewards for the risks they took and for the time spent in the sea. It almost sounds like Lang Hancock, if I may say so, but I do not think it was. Over a decade or so, political parties, both Labor and anti-Labor, developed the firm view that the historic wrecks -all those of pre- 1900 vintage- should be preserved from commercial or other exploitation. So the wreck legislation emerged and was strengthened. 
The doubts about State legislation persisted, and it was difficult to enforce the law in relation to remote coastal areas. But the Western Aus.tralian Museum, through its energetic Maritime Archaeology Department, embarked on a continuing campaign to educate public opinion to support the concept of preservation of historic evidence. It was fortunate that some of the discoverers were very good journalists. It carried out careful, scientific surveys and then conducted . archaeological excavations of the wrecks ofthe  Gilt Dragon  and the  Batavia,  which was wrecked in the Abrolhos Islands area in 1629. So the  Batavia  is a very old wreck. 
The discovery of a wide variety of artefacts was published to win public interest and sympathy for the serious, constructive work. That is in sharp contrast with the destructive effects of the plunderers who had made great profits from the sale of seventeenth century silver coins throughout Australia and overseas. Some of the coins were conterfeited in rare and more valuable forms by melting down silver blasted from the wrecks. The  Gilt Dragon  wreck site was severely blasted for the plunder and pillage of its many thousands of Spanish silver coins which themselves provide an important study of sixteenth and seventeenth century history. 
The first English ship wrecked in Australian waters, the  Tryal,  in 1622, was so badly blasted that there is some doubt whether the remains will warrant a future excavation by the Western Australian Museum. That is really a tragedy for it represented the beginnings of English navigation which was ultimately to be very significant. Probably the historic shipwreck in most danger now from the plunderers is the Dutch  Zuytdorp  off the Murchison coast of Western Australia. This shipwreck has already been visited by divers after its rich hoard of silver coins. Records of the proceedings of the Western Australian Court of Petty Sessions, the Supreme Court and the Criminal Court and more recently the High Court of Australia leave no doubt about who is the plunderer whose activities have made the Western Australian and Commonwealth laws to protect the historic shipwrecks necessary. 
The legislation currently before the National Parliament is the culmination of many years of advocacy by  Dr Philip  Playford and James Henderson, his son Graeme Henderson, who is now the Assistant Curator of Maritime Archaeology at the Western Australian Museum, and the dedicated work of the Maritime Archaeology Department at the Western Australian Museum. The Department established at Fremantle what is now regarded as one of the finest maritime museums in the world for its special areas of interest. An excellent exchange of interest and information has been developed between Australia and The Netherlands whose archives contain a priceless collection of rare exhibits and documents reflecting on the life and times of the beginnings of European discovery of Australia. Western Australian skin divers are encouraged to take an interest and to participate under supervision in some of the Museum's maritime exploration and excavation with excellent results -in terms of responsible community attitudes. Several valuable historical books have been written in recent years both in Holland and in Western Australia as one of the products of interest in Western Australian history. James Henderson conducted research in The Netherlands in 1975 and is now working with a Commonwealth literary grant to complete a book dealing with a 17th century voyage between Western Australia and Java. 
By the new Commonwealth legislation which is now before us, Australia established an international role of significance in the recognition and preservation of history. In fact this legislation places this nation among the world's leaders in this field. It is to the enduring credit of the people who have influenced this legislation in the State and Federal Parliaments, and it will be to the enduring credit of members of both sides of the House, that this legislation has been developed and accepted without delay. 
-I should like to ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who represents the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  whether the Department of Education has reacted to the report of the Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. I imagine that the report has been submitted to the Department of Education and to the Australian Schools Commission. It is likely that by this time there has been some reaction from them. If the Minister is not in a position to indicate to the House what their reactions are to the report, I would be grateful to receive from the Minister for Education a letter indicating the reaction of the Education experts of the Commonwealth Government to the recommendations of the Committee. In the opening part of its recommendations, the Committee referred to an important point. It stated: 
The incidence of learning difficulties among Australian school children should be determined at regular intervals by a nation-wide survey based on similar principles to the ACER study 1 Literacy and Numeracy in Australian Schools '. 
When I was the Minister for Education I authorised the investigation into the literacy and numeracy in Australia-n Schools, particularly directed at 11 -year olds and at 14-year olds. It is possible to stand up in Australia and say that reading standards are improving; that reading standards are getting worse; or that mathematical standards are improving on getting worse. There has been no base year to make comparisons. The report of the Australian Council for Educational Research made available this year- as a result of decisions made when I was Minister for Education last year, has given us a base year. But we are not yet in a position to make comparisons. I contrast this situation with paragraph 585 of the report entitled  Children and their Primary Schools- the  so-called Plowden report- published in the U.K. It states: 
Successive investigations into reading ability undertaken by the Department of Education from 1948 to 1964 make it clear that, despite the dismal reports that appear from time to time in the press, the standard of reading m the country as a whole has been going up steadily since the war. Children of eleven have advanced by an average of 1 7 months since the first report was made, and backwardness now has a different connotation from that which it had in 1948. For this improvement the schools can take much of the credit, but it does not dispose of all the questions asked about reading. The most important which remain are: what can be done to help the minority of children for whom learning to read is a slow business and for a few never achieved? What use is made of the skill once it is acquired? 
Without putting it quite so specifically, the Select Committee has really been aiming in Australia at trying to find the answers to those questions. It is important to note what has happened in the United Kingdom since the Plowden report in 196S. When I was in the United Kingdom in June and July of this year I went to the College of Education at Edgehill and also  to the  Thomas Coram Child Research Unit of the Faculty of Education of London University. I learnt a number of things. One was about the standards of reading in the United Kingdom. I learned that the standard of reading had stood still since that revelation in the Plowden report. It had not gone back, it had not gone forward, but the demands of people in the United Kingdom had risen. For instance, in 1948 it required a reading age of nine to read the London  Daily Mirror.  Even the London  Daily Mirror,  which is about as revolting as the Sydney  Mirror  in its standards, now requires a reading age of thirteen. That increased requirement has really gone through the English Press. A tertiary reading age is required to read the  London Times,  but the reading age required to read it in 1948 was not so high. They have been making assessments of what is required. 
Amongst the most difficult reading, of course, is any sort of instructional or inquisitorial reading such as forms. A person who died in the United Kingdom in 1975 in his lifetime had filled in 17 times as many forms as a person who had died in 1945. Therefore there is a considerable demand on reading skills. I have already mentioned in this House that sometimes a difference is made between requirements of reading skill in technical education and in academic education. These differences are quite false. For instance, if one reads the house manuals of Mercedes, Ford or Holden, such as are studied by a person doing mechanical engineering at one of our technical schools, one will quickly find that the. reading requirements of those motor firm manuals are fully at tertiary level. Even if someone is doing a chef's course at the Canberra Technical College- a very important course- the instructional reading m books of recipes and so on has to be understood. There is almost no sector of education which does not require reading skills. 
I hope that the Department of Education will take note of the recommendations of this year's and last year's exercise of the ACER in its report on literacy and numeracy in Australian schools. I hope its study of the capacity of Australian children in that regard will be noted. If it is we will then have objective tests of whether reading is advancing. A report has been issued to us today entitled  Poverty and Education in Australia.  Dr Ronald  Fitzgerald, who was the commissioner, when referring to the Interim Committee of the Australian Schools Commission stated: 
The terms of reference directed to the Interim Committee- 
That is the Karmel Committee-  . . to determine the minimum needs ofthe schooling system and to define those needs according to the extent of cognitive, physical, social or economic disadvantage of students. In its report of the following May, the Committee redefined equality of opportunity in the Australian context. First, it rejected the established principle of uniform provision of services and asserted that governments should discriminate positively in favour of disadvantaged groups. Second, the Committee argued for diversity and asserted that criteria other than academic success ought to be accepted for recognising student achievement 
Looking back on my experience as a Minister I can remember being under fire about schools. The truth about our Australian community is that the most articulate sections of the community regard education as a weapon to their advantage and to the advantage of their own children over other children and not as the instrument of every child's dignity. I was never attacked about expenditure on universities. Let us face it: Expenditure on universities represents shifting purchasing power upwards in the community. It costs $67m a year to run the Australian National University for 6000 students, which is $1 1,000 a head. There are many taxpayers who are much poorer than many of the students at the university and who are paying taxes for the students' education. I believe it is very important that university education is free. I am not attacking that principle. I am stating that there is a social effect on shifting resources upwards in the community. It is significant that the Labor Government was never under attack about that. But my goodness, the attacks that came when a differential was made between, say, a Geelong Grammar school and a Marist Brothers college in the non-government sector were significant. That was where the real battle came in. If a government does anything in education expenditure that starts shifting resources downwards in the community it will find itself under fire from articulate sections ofthe community. 
I say one thing about what is, after all, a superficial look at Fitzgerald's report. I dislike his imprecise use of the word 'elitism'. I believe that the Specific Learning Difficulties Committee avoided confusion of terms. I believe it is elitism in education if you are trying to socially privilege an economic or social group. For instance, Palmerston, in his days at Oxford University, was considered to be a man of exceptional selfrestraint because he did not take out a Master of Arts degree to which he was automatically entitled as a peer. Being a peer and just breathing the atmosphere of Oxford entitled him to an M.A. immediately. That is what I would call elitism in an extreme form in education. But when people start talking about intellectual capacity and say that it is elitism, if someone for instance a student at a secondary college in Canberra, with high intellectual capacity can go ahead at his own pace, what they really are speaking about is academic and intellectual skill. If they are going to attack that as elitism I think they are making a mistake. Of course, it is elitism if you try to confine opportunities to socially privileged groups or if you leave others to rot because they are not in socially privileged groups. 
I think we would be very wise in the field of education to confine the expression elitism to the question of social and economic privilege and not make it an instrument of attack on quality. After all, if I am going to be operated on by a surgeon I hope to God he belongs to an elite and can do the operation skilfully and with good discernment. There are many things for which we require the services of an elite 
The Specific Learning Difficulties Committee was trying to find reasons why some children do not succeed. They are not all economic reasons. At the Thomas Coram Research Unit, Professor Tizard had students who had done a survey of English children at Dagenham. They had excluded from the survey children of West Indian background or Indian and Pakistan background because their command of English was different from that of the general run of English children. They analysed the reading capacities of English children in the Dagenham area and they found this very interesting thing, that children who read regularly to their parents now were in the top reading group. Children who read occasionally to their parents now were in the second best reading group. Children who had regularly read to their parents in the infants group, but had not done so since were in the next group, and children who had read occasionally to their parents in the infants group were next. The children who had never read to their parents were in the last group. This is a very interesting aspect in establishing a correlation between the factor of parental interest in listening to the child's achievements and the child's results. In other words, children and young people do catch from adults a value placed on education. 
The secondary colleges which came into existence in Canberra this year have a number of things about them which have led to them being very intense learning communities. One is that children have deliberately chosen to transfer to them because they want to get on with work. Secondly, under our adult secondary student scheme, adults who missed secondary education opportunities may come back to school. So there we have 2 1-year olds and 25-year olds who have come back to matriculate in those colleges. They, as young adults, put a high value on the opportunities which the 17-year olds and 18-year olds get naturally. The younger students have caught these values from the older students and the presence of these older students has been a tremendous factor in motivation. It is the same thing with the parental stimulus. We cannot eliminate that factor, but the vital parts of this report do speak of the quality of teachers of the handicapped. The beginnings of a transformation in that area came about by the funding which arose out of the Karmel report. 
There are many comments in this report on specific learning difficulties which are extremely valuable and that is why I would like very much to have the reactions of the Commonwealth Department of Education and the Schools Commission to it. I am not an objective viewer, being a member of that Committee, but I regard this report as being a very valuable educational document brought down by a committee of this House. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: Is there a significant component in his defence budget of imported material for the 3 defence Services? If so, has the budget been increased to compensate for devaluation or have purchases abroad been cut as a consequence of devaluation? 
-The strictures of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  on the Australian Broadcasting Commission reporter to whom he referred remind me of a former distinguished person in the Australian Labor Party, the late Frank Anstey. He once ran a newspaper. He gave it a motto which he printed over the leading article which he said was the true motto of every Australian newspaper. It said: 'The truth will be told but not to the exclusion of more interesting matter'. Perhaps the ABC has become converted to the general standards of the Australian Press. 
I should like to deal with the honourable member's own slight editing of facts. He spoke about the sudden interest of the Labor Party in housing presumably because of this debate. I wish to quote from a statement by the Honourable Phillip Lynch on advances to the States for housing. I am sure the honourable member for 
Moore would not regard the Honourable Phillip Lynch as one who tells untruths. Here is the 'sudden interest' in the Labor Party in housing. In 1971- 72 the Liberal and Country Parties' advances to the States totalled about $4m. In 1972- 73, with their agreement still operating, the figure became $13m. The Labor Party's first agreement- their interest in housing- came in 1972-73 and that $13m became $225m, according to  Mr Lynch.  In 1 974-75 it became $392m. In 1975-76 it was cut by the Hayden Budget to $37 lm. The present Government has increased it by $10m to $38 lm. But the Labor Party's housing agreement was of course what the present Government was implementing. I am quite sure that the honourable gentleman knows that that $ 10m increase, or $1 on $37, being less than a 3 per cent increase, would not keep up with inflation and would certainly not keep up with inflation of building costs. It was no greater housing effort. 
We have heard the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  talking about overseas reserves being at the comfortable level of $3,000m and not mentioning that the effect of devaluation is that they have been cut by 12 te per cent in purchasing power. Yesterday I exacted from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  the first admission that the defence budget has in fact been cut in purchasing power for equipment produced overseas by devaluation because the sum of money appropriated has not been changed. I think it would be a very good thing if in all these matters we stuck to factual analysis. 
Certain State Premiers are under attack because they are alarmed at the terms of a letter from the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman).  They are entitled to be alarmed at the terms of the Minister's letter. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  has told us that the terms of the letter are merely proposals. The Premiers are reacting to proposals which seem to them to be damaging- interest increasing from 4 per cent to the bond rate. If they wish to find out what is the philosophy of the present Commonwealth Government on this matter they only have to look at what it has done in the Australian Capital Territory. I invite honourable gentlemen to consult Commonwealth car drivers as to what has happened to the level of their rents. I invite them to find out what has happened to building society interest rates in this area. There is a growing habit of untruthfulness in official government statements that is very alarming- untruthfulness or suppression. Honourable gentlemen opposite, in opposition, were constantly quoting seasonally adjusted figures on unemployment. It was quite scandalous, when seasonally adjusted figures on unemployment have been pan of the statistics of the Commonwealth for a long period, for the present Government to abolish statistics in that form because they are embarrassing. There is, as in the case of overseas reserves, this contant comparison of different units. Comparing overseas reserves after devaluation with reserves before devaluation and saying that they have improved when in fact their purchasing power has been cut is disturbing. But a really scandalous action is that of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in the statement that looks like a report on the Independent Schools (Loans Guarantee) Act. Listen to the peculiarity of the wording. Talking about loans to private schools he states: 
Until 1974 repayments of loans were being made to schools by equal annual instalments over a period of 20 years. Due to the difficulties that have arisen, the Government has now changed the Scheme to reduce the repayment period from 20 years to 10 years, thereby doubling the annual rate at which the Government reimburses the princi- f&gt;al payable to the lending institutions and consequently lowering the long-term interest burden on schools. 
That of course was a decision of mine in 1974. As far as I know, it immediately cut the interest burden on Catholic schools by about $1.5m over a period of years. The Minister began by referring to 1974 and then said: 
The Government has now - 
This fits in nicely to a fiction about the Government being particularly concerned to assist the non-government schools and about the Government's predecessors not being concerned. I wrote to all the authorities of the schools. I might explain that the situation was that the Commonwealth paid back the capital and paid the interest up to the long term bond rate. If the long term bond rate was  9lA  per cent and the Catholic education authorities were paying 1  Vi  per cent they had to pay 2 per cent. Obviously cutting the period of the Commonwealth's repayment of the capital from 20 years to 10 years reduces the interest burden. That is precisely what I did. Now we have this wording: 'The Government has now decided '. It is rather serious when it is in a document looking like a report but actually a ministerial statement tabled in the Parliament. It is this sort of thing which is lowering confidence and the knowledge of State Premiers of what has happened in the Australian Capital Territory has probably alarmed them. 
The honest truth about the levels of housing advances made by Liberal-Country Party governments before Labor came into office- $7m and $ 13m- is that they were mere tokenisms. The McMahon Government had a marvellous art of getting away with token gestures. Now, when a very seriously increased burden is to fall on a lot of people if the Minister for Housing's proposed new agreement becomes a fact, we have a token gesture to about 4500 poor people. At a cost of $ 15m these people will have the capacity to pay the full interest rates and the full rental burdens made possible by grant, which means there will be no Commonwealth action acting as a depressant in the market on the rentals coming from low interest advances made palatable by assistance to these few people's poverty, though the proposition is a good one in itself, if additional to the present scheme. 
According to the Minister's own statement the number involved is 4500 out of 125 000. The cost will be $15m. It is an experiment, we are told. Of course the experiment will succeed. Of course lifting the burden from a poor family is the right thing to do. What about the other 121 500 people? When is the experiment to be declared to have succeeded? Will it be extended? At a cost of $ 15m for only 4500 families, what sort of assistance to a widespread social burden are we talking about? If you extended it to the whole 125 000 you would have to multiply the $ 15m by 28, which would be $420m. So there is a $15m burden being lifted from 4500 people as part of a camouflage for what is being done to raise interest in another field, and on the other 12 1 500 a burden which would cost $405m to lift presumably being left. 
When an action like this is kept small because it is only an ' experiment ' it is pathetic. You might just as well talk about the 'experiment' that was made in properly feeding pregnant Aboriginal women with protein and vitamin supplements by the Presbyterian authorities in Queensland and miracle, miracle, miracle. It meant that no children were born brain-damaged. But according to the  Medical Journal of Australia  that was done on missions but it was not done on Queensland Government settlements. 
This housing 'experiment' will succeed but it could be a camouflage for decisions at the expense of what has been an extremely good Housing Agreement in which the Australian Labor Party vastly increased the Commonwealth's stake in housing the nation- from an insignificant $13m to somewhere in the vicinity of $380m for housing. If this agreement is to be tampered with and if interest rates and consequential rentals are to rise, a powerful weapon for keeping down general housing costs will be struck from the hands of the Australian community, and that will be a great tragedy. We in 
Western Australia are expected to gawp with admiration at yachts of millionaire land dealers, reflecting land prices and competing time after another for the America's Cup. I think that this demonstrates and reveals a tragedy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I shall not detain the House long. I merely wish to pay a tribute to the late Hartley Cant who until recently was a senator in this Parliament. As he had retired for a number of years no official notice of his passing has been taken in this House. Hartley Cant was a senator from Western Australia whose mark was in the wisdom of his advice in his private conversations. He was a man of considerable political perception who cared very much about the right thing being done in Australian politics. He was the fatherinlaw of Lance Barnard, the father of Lance 
Barnard's wife. I think he was an influence on  Mr Barnard  which helped him to be a person of balance and perception in this Parliament. Hartley Cant was always a gracious friend to me. Of course I chiefly knew him on the long flights from Perth to Canberra. I know the new custom about condolences but I think it is regrettable that no notice is taken of his passing. I am sure that I express the sympathy of many honourable members who knew him to those members of bis family who mourn his loss. 
-On 10 May 1973 this House debated the Medical Practice Clarification Bill. That Bill with such a bland title in fact proposed a major change in the criminal law of the Australian Capital Territory. It proposed to legalise abortion. In the debate that took place the Liberal Party was unanimously opposed to the Bill. In the divisions that were ca lied every member of the present Federal Cabinet who were in the House on 10 May 1973 including the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  voted against the Bill. I do not blame them for gaining very considerable political advantages out of the attitude that they took. I have assumed that that attitude was genuine. 
Now we find that in practice there is a major change in the criminal law of the Australian Capital Territory and there is to be an abortion clinic in the Australian Capital Territory. I know that when this matter was aired in the House the Minister for Health said that the proposal may not proceed until certain things are done. He said that one of the requirements was that this matter should be referred to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. The result of one division taken on 10 May 1973 was 98 noes to 23 ayes. 
If the Government wants a reversal of the policy there is only one step of integrity that it can take. It cannot hide behind the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. Either it flouts this Parliament or it introduces a Bill to ask this Parliament to reverse its previous decision. If the Government takes any other course of action then, in its Address-in-Reply to  Her  Majesty,  Her  Majesty's Australian advisers should characterise themselves as hypocrites. They made very clear and very strong statements which are on the record. 
In this context I am not speaking about abortion from the point of view of its necessity in certain extreme cases where it would save a life and there is really no choice. I take the view, of course, that nobody can authorise the destruction of an innocent person. I am not however debating this matter from that point of view. What I am saying is that a vote was taken in this chamber and if the Government wants any change in the criminal law of the Australian Capital Territory there is only one procedure of integrity, and that is to introduce a Bill to take responsibility for the proposal. The Government is not prepared to take responsibility. The Government is trying to allow it to come in through the back door. The declarations that the Government made at the time the Bill was before the House were either genuine, and if they were genuine there is no other course of action for it to make, or they were a response to pressure. If the Government's action was a response to pressure, of course, it can bring in a change in the law under circumstances which will not attract nationwide attention as the Bill did. That is the way the Government would do it. That appears to be the way the Government is doing it. In that case it means the attitude that was taken on 10 May 1 973 was not genuine. 
I think it is both specious and contemptible to say that a major matter of criminal law passed down to this Parliament from the Parliament of New South Wales when the Australian Capital Territory became a Federal Territory should now be a matter for the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. In other words, the Legislative Assembly, which is a creation of this Parliament, has more authority than this Parliament and is entitled to reverse a decision of this Parliament rejecting a Bill. I do not want to say anything more about this matter. However, I could not imagine that there is a more crucial test of the genuineness of the Government than there is on this particular point. If one day members of the Government can strike an attitude and say, 'Life is sacred', and another day they can strike another attitude and say, 'Oh, that is a matter for the Legislative Assembly ' of course they have no convictions on the deepest question that could possibly be posed. 
I want to leave this subject and speak about the dissolution of the Technical and Further Education Commission. The Government is mistaken in disbanding the Technical and Further Education Commission and combining segments of the Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education and the Technical and 
Further Education Commission in a Post Secondary Commission. The combination is defective from many points of view. Firstly, the Commonwealth is totally funding universities and colleges of advanced education, including teachers colleges. As far as technical education is concerned the Commonwealth is simply engaged in topping up grants. 
When the Labor Government came to power we increased expenditure on technical education by 350 per cent. We made technical education free and in my time as Minister for Education enrolments in technical colleges rose from 400 000 to 705 000. But we were still engaged in a topping up exercise. We were making grants to the States that topped up expenditures that the States themselves were carrying through. It will be very difficult to combine in one commission the total funding of universities and colleges of advanced education, and the partial funding of technical and further education. 
Another disastrous feature of this proposal, of course, is that the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education have been in existence for 15 years. An immense amount of fundamental work was done. After the Kangan report the Technical and Further Education Commission came into being and it has not operated yet for 3 years. The fundamental work has not been done. A good relationship developed with the States. State officers were on the Commission and enough funds were beginning to be made available to enable the States to engage in forward planning. It is certain, of course, that some States did not play the game. On the capital side, for instance, New South Wales reduced its own effort and merely used Commonwealth grants as a substitute for what ought to have been its own effort. We did not have an agreement which required the States to maintain an effort. The result was that in the area of capital construction of technical colleges in New South Wales 10 Commonwealth dollars were made available for every one New South Wales dollar. In Victoria there were 4 Commonwealth dollars for one Victorian dollar. In South Australia, on the other hand, there were 3 State dollars for one Commonwealth dollar. South Australia played the game and treated our technical education grants as topping up grants. 
It is quite pathetic to put in with university planning and college of advanced education planning technical colleges which are dealing with apprenticeships and many levels of education where they simply have to establish literacy before work can proceed. The Canberra 
Technical College, for instance, had 880 apprentices and 16 per cent of them were not able to read sufficiently to undergo their courses, with the result that very constructively the College in a very short time taught them to read adequately. I do not think people who are involved in universities and colleges of advanced education have the same way of thinking about the educational problems. They are dealing with quite different ones. I do not believe there is an intelligent amalgamation of technical and further education with the other types of education. I am afraid that the great historic fallacy of Australia whereby we have never put enough into technical education will be repeated. 
Some of the States have already engaged in subterfuge. That master of the subterfuge who pretends that he is terribly concerned about any Commonwealth action- I refer to the Premier of Queensland- has really behaved quite intelligently about this. He has put all his technical education or a very great deal of it into the college of advanced education area, which means that it will be totally financed by the Commonwealth and will not be made a matter for topping up grants. But some other States have more integrity and they continue with a separate technical organisation. They have continued their own efforts honestly and therefore might expect that in this separate field of education there will be a continuance of the Technical and Further Education Commission. 
When the Bill that established the Commission was introduced by myself it was one of the pieces of legislation which had the support of the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party declared that it agreed with the legislation. Everything that it said presupposed that it would give the Technical and Further Education Commission a chance to get on with its work if the Liberal Party came into power. Now the Government proposes to merge the Commission with a smaller body which will be concerned with the immense problems of universities and colleges of advanced education. There is little doubt that technical and further education will be a side line. People engaged in technical education have always said of themselves that they are the cinderellas of education. There is very little doubt that they will be disadvantaged in the new amalgamation. 
I refer to another matter that was introduced by myself as Minister for Education, the bilingual program for Aboriginal children. I came to a simple conclusion that if you denied people an education in their own language you were treating them as a conquered people. We have always treated Aborigines as a conquered people. Therefore our first educational decision was one which allowed Aboriginal parents who still lived with the full tribal customs to nominate the language in which teaching at their school was conducted. The educational world of Australia is lost with admiration of the research of 2 gentlemen in Queensland, and quite justifiably so, at Mount Gravatt Teachers College. They are  Mr Richard  Walker and  Mr Norman  Hart. They have researched into the process of learning to read on the part of young children and have established that many class primers and readers are couched in language totally unfamiliar to the children concerned- usually those who are finding difficulty in establishing literacy. With computers they have determined the words in regular use among the children and have found that with reading material building upon this familiar basis the acquisition of literacy is accelerated on the part of children who are finding difficulty. 
If these learning problems exist for children whose mother tongue is English and the medium of education is English, how crushing must be the problem of Aboriginal children, whose mother tongue is not English, who have no English, but whose medium of instruction in the school is English?. When I was Minister for Education I went into the Northern Territory and went into the classroom where the Aboriginal children were being spoken to in their own language by the teacher. None of them turned round and looked at me or the party with me. When I went into class rooms where the medium for instruction was English and the Aboriginal children who did not have any English were struggling to understand what was being said everyone swung round immediately and looked at the party that had come into the back of the room because their attention span was nil and what they were engaged in was a miserable struggle which in no circumstances will ever establish literacy. 
It has been established that if children first establish literacy in the mother tongue they can switch more readily to a second language. That is why we called our program the bilingual program. I showed the film  Not to lose you, my language  on the bilingual program to 800 teachers in Switzerland. Let me relate certain consequences. As a consequence,  Dr John  Cooper in Copenhagen has borrowed the film from the Australian Embassy there, its ideas have been studied, and he has written that the Eskimos of Greenland who have been educationally impaired by the imposition of Danish as the initial language in schools, a language they do not speak, will probably have a bilingual program. There were Swedish teachers there. Several times they asked for the film and several times they saw it. Lapps have asked for, and will almost certainly get, a bilingual program. The Lapps were having Swedish imposed on them in exactly the same way as we have imposed English on Aboriginal children. Dubbed into French, the film has inspired the project that Indo-Chinese refugee children in France may have the benefits of a bilingual program. 
The black African educator and authoress,  Mrs Kathleen  Vundla from Soweto, saw the film. It will be appreciated that the language issue in schools touched off the violence in Soweto last year. She drew 2 conclusions from the film. The first was that it revealed incidentally and unintentionally the poverty, ill health and abject conditions of Aboriginal children. The second was that South African blacks like herself have been guilty of leaving intact the same educational oppression of having denied an education in the mother tongue to the Bushmen of Africa, who speak neither English nor Afrikaans, and whose language is educationally ignored. The bilingual program in the Northern Territory is a significant world model.  Hemisphere,  a journal of the Education Department, says:  . . . There is much interest in the Aboriginal program. So much so, in fact, that when two leading linguists,  Dr Geoff  O'Grady, of the University of Victoria, British Columbia, and  Dr Ken  Hale, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, came to Australia . . . they wrote: ' We are extremely impressed with the Northern Territory bilingual program- so much so that we are inclined to assert that this program constitutes one of the most exciting educational events in the modern world. 
Now it is being crushed out of existence by the imposition of staff ceilings. Staff ceilings imposed on the teaching force in Canberra will not destroy the whole basic structure of education. But this scheme began among the infants. It goes up to the first standard, the second standard and so on progressively. For the whole primary school to be within the program of course more and more teachers must be appointed until the whole thing is established. At present 13 Aboriginal languages are being used in the schools. Imposing staff ceilings will ensure that the new infants coming in will not get a teacher or, if they do get a teacher, those further up will have to abandon the program because there will not be enough teachers to teach them. When there was some sort of a dispute whereby the Aboriginal teachers were withdrawn from the schools at Amoonguna on Groote Eylandt in the Northern Territory and other teachers were appointed, the Aboriginal teachers were not re-appointed on the ground that that would be exceeding the staff ceiling. That was contemptuous treatment that no teachers' union would allow to happen to a European teacher and no government would dare to impose on European teachers. 
I am not suggesting that there is some kind of a plot against this bilingual program. I think it is the usual blind procedure. We have an idea that is valid down here, or at least we all understand that the reason for the imposition of staff ceilings is that we do not want funds to increase but what is just some passing economy to people with a well-established educational system becomes by a quirk of fate another utter disaster for Aboriginal people. Whilst a cut-back in the health program would have one significance here, it would have an utterly different significance to them. I appeal- to the Government to look at this question of the staff ceilings as they apply in a case such as the one I have mentioned to see whether this absolutely valuable educational procedure, which is going to give those Aboriginal children a real command of English by establishing literacy in the first place in their own languages, can be exempted from the staff ceiling because it is a new program that has to expand and additional staff have to be recruited. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. The right honourable gentleman will recall that on 10 May 1973 this House rejected a proposed change in the criminal law in the Australian Capital Territory related to the termination of pregnancy, entitled 'The Medical Practices Clarification Bill'. It was rejected by 98 to 23 votes. I ask the Prime Minister whether there are proposals to change the law in the Australian Capital Territory again. If so, will the matter come to this Parliament? If the matter will not come to this Parliament, why is the decision of 10 May 1973 being evaded, and why is this Parliament being evaded? If the Legislative Assembly, which was not elected with this question as an election issue, opts for free standing abortion clinics, does the Government - 
I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether a price freeze, if implemented, would mean that prices would be held for the next 90 days and that a wage freeze, if implemented, would mean that wages would not be adjusted for price movements that had already occurred over the last 90 days? 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  put a very challenging question to the Opposition. He asked: Is it the Labor Party's policy to have teachers colleges centralised under the Commonwealth? May I draw to the Minister's attention the fact that teachers colleges have now become colleges of advanced education and their financing is entirely centralised under the Commonwealth, that that was done by the Labor Party and that the present Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is continuing that policy. So what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs regarded as a very sinister piece of centralisation is his own Government's policy, which was adopted from us. The second thing I should like to say to the Minister is that the Commonwealth Government is perfectly capable of suggesting to the Commission on Advanced Education or to its successor, the Tertiary Education Commission, that certain additional things may be necessary in the work of teachers colleges. We vastly increased federal funds available, first to teachers colleges and then to the teacher education section of colleges of advanced education, with suggestions at various times that they should do things about Aboriginal education and other matters like that. So it is perfectly possible for the Commonwealth to make suggestions. 
I am not interested in proving that the Government is wrong and the Opposition is right, or in playing the old Westminster skin game that the world is getting so sick of. We are discussing a question which is a quite serious one for a lot of migrant people in Australia, the question of the language difficulties of their children. I have said before in this House that the educational world is admiring the work of Hart and Walker at Mount Gravatt College of Advanced Education. They have established that English speaking children from homes where a different form of English is spoken from that used in the primers and the school books are finding great difficulty in establishing literacy. Hart and Walker have established primers in the language those children actually use. As a result, the children are acquiring literacy and are becoming able to transfer it to the more formal English of the ordinary school books. 
If that is the position of Australian children who have an English speaking background, how much more disastrous is the position of children who do not have an English speaking background? I urge on the Minister that initiatives are required from the Commonwealth. If the Minister, who like myself is a West Australian, will look at section 32f of the Western Australian Education Act he will find a draconian provision that if any principal of a school or any proprietor of a school, which picks up the non-government schools, dares to conduct the school with a medium of instruction in a language other than English he is fined $200 for the first day and $50 for every day he continues to do so. By that provision Western Australia effectively denies an education to Aboriginal children of a nonEnglish speaking background. We in the Commonwealth introduced, and the present Government has continued, the bilingual program for Aboriginal children in the Northern Territory under which the schools at the moment are conducted in 20 Aboriginal languages. It can be said that where that does not take place the children have very little chance at all of an education. 
Exactly the same position applies in migrant education. The present Government continued a committee originated by the Labor Government. Many of its members were defeated, but I went on to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, which deals with the learning difficulties of children and adults. One of the things that that Committee pointed out was the lack of enterprise of State governments and State Education departments as compared with banks. It is standard procedure, at least in the capital cities, for a bank to have Greek, Yugosalv and Italian young people who are bilingual. They are second generation Australians, and migrants can come to the bank counter and there find someone who speaks their own language. But the courtesy which is extended to bank customers most education departments have not extended. 
The Minister was proud of the fact that there was a delay in the tabling of the report of the Committee on the Teaching of migrantlanguages in Schools. Aboriginal children's education is rotten in the States. The education of migrant children, outside the Catholic sector, has rotted in the States precisely because there is no commission administration, there is bureaucratic administration. The whole essence of departments is to hold close to their chests anything that is wrong. It is the duty of the director of education to defend the government and not rock the boat. The Labor Government established the system of commission recommendations for schools to blazon from the housetops what was wrong and what needed to be done. We began a process in migrant education that needs to be finished. The Right Honourable John Gorton early in 1971, when he was still Prime Minister, admitted that the Commonwealth migration program was creating a crisis for State Education departments and that the Commonwealth would have to put in a special expenditure. The expenditure he arranged was $4m over 3 years. The moment we started these reports on what needed to be done, the expenditure on migrant education in 1974-75 was not $4m over 3 years but $20. 4m over one year. An honest effort was made to start this process. 
The Minister has referred to reports. Let me quote to him from the report of the Inquiry into Schools of High Migrant Density, which states: 
There is no doubt that the school is an alienating factor in many migrant homes, particularly between the mother and her children. In many instances the parents are illiterate or barely literate in their own language . . . They are subject to very powerful ethnic group pressures to conform and to maintain their culture. Their children are, in many cases, more highly educated in terms of formal schooling than themselves. They can frequently speak better English than their parents, sometimes at the expense of their own native tongue. They are immersed in social values quite foreign to their parents and are subject to very strong peer group pressures to conform to the modern youth culture . . . Many teachers - 
This is something that needs to be dealt with in teachers colleges and in teachers unions-  are openly intolerant of the expectations of migrant parents and believe that they should be ignored or destroyed, in the interests of the children. 
The serious problems of parental involvement, etc., cannot be viewed in the narrow focus of the school itself, but must be observed in the context of the total community. 
Many of these children will get a first class effective education only if, where there is a high concentration of migrant children, there is a bilingual education. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that at Randwick primary school 70 per cent of the children are Greek. It is of no use subscribing to the view that we in Australia believe in a multi-cultural society. We have 25 1 000 children in primary schools who are from bilingual homes or from a home where the language is a migrant language. The Minister knows and I know, and we lie if we stand up and pretend anything else, that the basic assumption in the Australian community is that everybody should be assimilated. When I was young it used to be a vulgar accusation that someone was heard on a bus speaking in his own lingo, as the great expression was. Not too far below the surface that is still the attitude of the Australian community. I believe that we will make a better society for ourselves if we make sure that we have more bilingual citizens. In relation to children who do come from bilingual homes and are caught between 2 languages, if we assist them to establish literacy in their own language, as surely as night follows day we will also assist in their establishment of literacy in English. 
-The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  has mentioned one of the difficult matters in technical education and that is how technical education can be made available for rural areas. There are some real problems in this area. In spite of what was said in a recent speech the amount of money appropriated does matter to the States and their education departments. The Labor Government almost immediately increased the amount of money available for technical education by 350 per cent when it came into office. One of the points that interested the Ministry and as a consequence the Interim Technical and Further Education Commission, known as the Kangan Committee, was the fact that the enormously expensive equipment put into technical colleges requires a considerable number of students to use it. This cannot happen in rural areas. We were faced with the problem of what we were going to do about rural students who wished to study a subject which required the use of this expensive machinery. We came up with the answer to build residential colleges for the first time to be attached to technical colleges. Because historically students who went to universities were gentlemen or perhaps originally monastic, universities in the English tradition had residential colleges. But this arrangement has never been made in respect of technical colleges. So an appropriation was made for residential colleges to be constructed and attached to technical colleges. 
There are regions which, because of some unique characteristic, should be the centres of a remoter area form of post-secondary education. One such centre was Katherine in the Northern Territory which is situated in an area of tropical agriculture. The Labor Government started the process to establish a college at Katherine. I am sorry to say that the college has not been proceeded with. If the honourable gentleman's plea for colleges to be established in remoter areas means that there will be some acceleration of the proposal for Katherine I will be very pleased. I believe that the Government would be thoroughly justified in constructing a specialist college in this area. 
I would like to refer to the speech that was made last night by the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman).  I would like to say to the honourable member that at the moment we do not know whether our literacy standards are advancing. The first real studies conducted into the standards of 10-year-old and 14-year-old Australian children- 10 years as being near the end of their primary education and 14 years as being near the beginning of their secondary education- were the Australian studies in school performance. This work was done by the Australian Council for Educational Research, known as ACER. This work was carried out under the sponsorship of this body following directions given in my time as Minister for Education. The Council reported subsequent to the fall of the Whitlam Government. We will be able to say 5 years hence if these tests are repeated whether or not the standards are advancing. But we do not have any spot checks in Australian educational history on which to base anything. A test of all 11 -year-olds was made in 1949 in the United Kingdom. The Plowden report found that in 1965 the reading age of 1 1 -year-old children in England had advanced by 17 months over that period of time. However, the reading age of 1 1- year-old children did not advance in the next 10 years to 1975. There is worry about this lack of advance. A study of the reading needs of children- for instance taking the minimum requirement of being able to read newspapersshows that their standards need to advance. In 1949 that great and glorious paper the London  Daily Mirror  needed a reading age of nine. In 1975 it needed a reading age of thirteen. Therefore a 9-year-old would not be able to comprehend the London  Daily Mirror  in 1975. Papers like  The Times  require a tertiary standard of reading. The studies of literacy and numeracy conducted by ACER included various items to test the reading standards of children. It was found that in this area the score for Australia was 94, England 90, Scotland 89 and the United States of America 87. In the case of reading comprehension it was found that the score for Australia was 70, for England 68, for New Zealand 75, for Scotland 70 and for the United States 79. 1 will not go through all of the figures because to do so might bore people. But I am bound to say that New Zealand had a slight edge all the way through. Otherwise, the Australian figures at most levels were virtually identical with or a little in advance of the figures for the United States and the United Kingdom. 
I am not complacent; I think there is real illiteracy in Australia. But I am hesitant about saying that there was a good old day when there was not. When I went through high school only 7 per cent of Australian children completed a high school course. The great majority left school at the age of 14 years and quite frankly nobody knows whether they could read or not or whether their performance would have been better than 15-year-olds now or not. But the fact remains that these children did not remain at school. Their capacity did not gratify teachers and their incapacity did not worry teachers. They simply left school. Now that young people are staying on at school we are beginning to ascertain whether they have acquired skills. So I would not be dogmatic about this matter. 
There is too much pretence that something new is coming into technical education as a result of the present Government's decisions. Enrolments in technical education under the Whitlam Government increased in a very short space of time from 400 000 to 705 000. This was the fastest rate of increase in Australian history. Technical education was made free. The 705 000 enrolments are not full-time students. I think the honourable member for Bendigo touched on this matter in giving us a warning. The fact that they are not full-time students is no criticism of them. The purpose of a technical college is to provide re-entry into education by people who want to upgrade their qualifications. In point of fact a technical college ought to be able to pick up the problems of the adult who is illiterate and make him literate. This has been done on quite a considerable scale at the Canberra Technical College. This is why I regret that the Government proposes to include technical and further education with the other 2 commissions. If we are honest we cannot stand up here and say that we know that such a move will be disastrous for technical education. Nor can honourable gentlemen opposite say that they know that such a move will be good for technical education. But I do point out some of the difficulties. First, the Commonwealth totally funds universities and colleges of advanced education but it does not totally fund technical colleges. Secondly, as the honourable member for Bendigo suggested, the technical sector of education is overwhelmingly part-time and is used by people of a comparatively advanced age who return for some reason to technical education. 
-That is right. I am not suggesting that there should be any criticism. I am saying that they have a different nature. Thirdly, I do not know whether this trend will change; I think it would be a good thing if it did. We now have the position where a teachers college- I doubt whether it is still called by that namewith 700 students has access to a Commonwealth commission. However, a technical college of 36 000 students, such as a college in Sydney, cannot do anything without a director of education holding the principal's hand. The principal is not the head of an autonomous college, although he ought to be. I am not making criticism for the sake of criticism, but what worries me about the Government's policy- and I am making a genuine query of what I think is undesirable- is this: I can understand the Government responding in this way because I think that a habit of mind has developed in teachers' unions, in the media and in the State governments which would lead a government to defend itself. I am glad that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who is sitting at the table, sees that there is a new federalism. As I read the accounts of the Premiers' Conference it sounds very much like the old separate and colliding sovereignties, that the States are willing to attack you if you do not give enough money to these sectors and they will claim all the credit for what is done. That to me smacks of the old federalism that I saw. Although the Labor Government increased their grants in its last Budget- I mean general grants, not specific grants- by 38 per cent, they were still maintaining that it did not keep up with inflation. Of course, an ignorant public would believe them. The inflation rate was about 14 per cent and the grants went way beyond inflation. I remember that when the Labor Government increased the money for schools from $1 12m to $794m, one distinguished State Premier- not of the opposite Party, as it happens, but a Labor Premier- said: 'It is only our own money'. If that is correct it meant that William McMahon was hanging on to $682m to which he was not entitled and at least the Labor Government was entitled to the credit for giving it up. But that is beside the point. 
What I do not like about the present procedures for the Commission is the guidelines. I believe that the Government is entirely entitled to lay down guidelines but I believe that the virtue of the Commission system is to state everything that needs to be done. Of course, if the Government does that and cannot accept the colossal expenditure that will be recommended, it will be told, even if it is adding $ 1 50m in real terms to education expenditure, that it is making cuts because the amount is not as high as was recommended. State governments will join in that untruthful chorus. Teachers' unions and the media commentators- God bless them- who know no better will do exactly the same thing. This will go out to the Australian people as gospel truth. Even if a very large rise in expenditure is taking place it will be called a cut. The thing therefore that a government does to defend itself is to start instructing the commissions beforehand with guidelines. The moment that is done the whole value of the commission system goes by the board and you are back at bureaucracy. You are back to the secret relations between a Minister for Education and the Director of Education where the advice is private. 
It is on this basis that for years and years States like Western Australia were subject to the former section 20 and- I hope the Minister is right- the former section 32 (f) with regard to education. The handicapped or the people in need of a linguistic education were inarticulate minorities and nothing was done about them. Year after year there was no commission declaring what was needed to be done, or advertising their problems, or taking evidence or seeking evidence. It was the good old relationship between Directors of Education and their Ministers. The second point that worries me, apart from the fact that the guidelines really are beginning to overthrow the nature of the commission system, is the eclipsing of the Technical and Further Education Commission when it had existed for only 2 years. The Labor Government intended to combine the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. The reason we were driven to do that was the competitive recommendations in the capital field. Nothing else particularly mattered. But the Commonwealth would receive a recommendation for $36m worth of buildings at the Western Australian Institute of Technology alongside $13m worth of buildings at Murdoch University, and the Commonwealth would be going into the State of Western Australia and bidding against itself for labour and materials and driving up the costs. So, the Labor Government felt that the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education should be combined; that there should be 2 councils but that there should be a common capital recommendation to stop competitive bidding for building material and labour. 
This Government has taken this into the field of technical and further education and I regret it. I would regret it doubly if I thought that the 
Technical and Further Education Commission was being punished because, in effect, it did not accept the guidelines. It gave 3 alternative reports and it made these comments: 
The main report has three major sections. The first section examines the significance of the guidelines for the development of TAFE over the three-year period 1977-79 and, by implication, in the longer term. In particular, it seeks to demonstrate that the minimum growth rates in Commonwealth grants for TAFE contained in the present guidelines are insufficient if TAFE is to discharge its task as the major provider of skilled manpower in the Australian Labor Force. 
Our expert Commission- although the Government has taken pride in 7'/i per cent real increases-has made the comment that these guidelines lay down a growth rate insufficient to provide Australia with the skilled manpower it needs. It made recommendations- if you like- at the minimum. Then it made recommendations at a more generous level and recommendations at an even further level. I am unhappy about the disappearance of the Technical and Further Education Commission for a number of reasons. Apart from the question of total funding of the other 2 Commissions, and merely topping up in the technical and further education area and apart from unhappiness about the extinction of a commission which has been critical of the guidelines that have been given it by a Government, I believe that the area of technical and further education is not neces'sarily postsecondary. 
The Government is referring to a postsecondary commission. What is needed increasingly in Australia is the re-entry into education of people who are not post-secondary. This problem has been encountered at a number of levels. I inherited from the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who was my predecessor as Minister for Education, a secretary-  Mr Gordon  Hurst. I kept him on in my office because he knew every pigeonhole in the Department. He knew where all the obstructions were. He had had 3 years experience under the previous Minister and I believed that he could guide me through the minefields, which he did with very great skill. He drew my attention to the fact that there is a large number of young people who probably had been quite stupid at the secondary level of school and who had wasted their time. Then, when they reached the age of about 19 or 20 they realised that they had been foolish. They realised that matriculation is important and wanted to go back to school. But they were at a tertiary education age and they needed some money. They were not just secondary school children of 14 or 15. The Labor Government established a system whereby they were given the tertiary allowance although they were only at the secondary level and they re-entered the field of education. 
Phillip College in Canberra is  par excellence  a place of re-entry and the fact that young people of 20 or 21 or 22 come back into secondary education, really flat out to study, enhances enormously the prestige of education to the other young people in the College. In fact, Phillip College is now a learning community which is really operating, I believe, at first year university level. Technical colleges are admirably adapted to reentry into education. They are not like universities. They are not like colleges of advanced education. Of course, with a master at blaming the Commonwealth and extracting the maximum advantage out of the Commonwealth, like  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Government may find that technical and further education disappears altogether and is included with colleges of advanced education which are funded totally by the Commonwealth.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  very adroitly is making technical education a function of colleges of advanced education, which are funded totally by the Commonwealth, instead of by topping-up grants. But not every State Premier has such footwork. There is still, in my view, a very clear case for a special and separate consideration of an independent technical and further education commission. I believe it was abruptly destroyed when it had only just begun its work. It had not had 15 or so years of existence like the other 2 commissions and as a matter of personal judgment- I am not making a great issue of this- I think it would have been a good thing had it been left to exist independently. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fisher)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Health a question concerning secondary illnesses or other illnesses being detected by the ophthalmological expedition sponsored by the Commonwealth investigating the problems of Aboriginal eyesight. The expedition has made comments from time to time about deafness and other ill health among Aborigines. If the ophthalmological expedition gives indications of these other health problems, is it proposed that there should be a follow up by another form of medical service for Aboriginal people? 
-by leave-By the authority vested in it by resolutions of both Houses of the Parliament, the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is empowered to investigate and report on matters referred to it by either House, by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Defence, and it may initiate its own references. It also has the power to appoint sub-committees to conduct investigations. In the reconstitution of the Committee in March 1976, the Committee decided to appoint 3 subcommittees to investigate a number of matters upon which it considered it important that the Parliament should be informed. The Committee believes that it is appropriate that the House should be informed of the activities of the Committee and its sub-committees. 
The main Committee itself has met regularly and has been briefed on a number of important matters regarding both foreign affairs and defence. The sub-committees have been given references initiated from within the Committee. The reference of sub-committee A is Australia's territorial boundaries, including such aspects as the law of the sea and Antarctica. This subcommittee has completed its initial report, which dealt with the territorial boundary between Australia and Papua New Guinea in the Torres Strait area, and this was presented to Parliament on 9 December 1976. This sub-committee is continuing its charter by initiating further investigations into the broader aspects of Australia's territorial boundaries, including Antarctica and the exclusive economic zone. 
The reference to sub-committee B was to investigate the domestic crisis in Lebanon and its significance to the Middle East situation. Because of the hostilities existing at the time in Lebanon the Committee gave priority to investigating humanitarian aspects of the Lebanon crisis, and a report was presented to Parliament on 2 December 1976. The sub-committee is continuing its work in the wider field of the significance of the fragile Middle East situation and has submitted its draft report to the full Committee, which has fully endorsed the report. It will be p resented to Parliament during the current par- liamentary sittings. 
Sub-committee C was authorised to investigate the question of industrial support for defence needs as seen by the full Committee and is drawing to the end of its inquiry. It is hoped that the report from this sub-committee may be available during the current period of sittings. The House can rest assured that the Committee and its sub-committees are conscientiously fulfilling the tasks the Parliament intended for them. 
I ask the Minister for Transport: Is it a fact that he has approved a reduction from 12 hours to 8 hours in the time during which airline pilots must not have consumed alcohol before a flight? Is it a fact that the airline pilots' organisations are opposed to this reduction of time? What valuable contribution will it make to airline safety to reduce the time? 
-The Australian Union of Students is a federal body and it is extremely doubtful whether any State legislation compels any students to contribute to it. I think the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  has confused 2 matters. I shall take as an example the University of Western Australia. The university requires the membership of the students of the Guild of Undergraduates. The Guild of Undergraduates has received loans from the university. At one stage, perhaps, it may have owed the university $lm, and interest of $70,000 a year was paid on this amount for student buildings. So universities habitually require all students, compulsorily, to be members of the student body within the university. Whether that student body is affiliated with the Australian Union of Students is an entirely separate question. 
The Guild of Undergraduates of the university or the student representative council of any given university does not have to be affiliated with the Australian Union of Students. No State law requires the student representative council of any university to be affiliated with the Australian Union of Students. If the student union by its own decision is affiliated with the federal body- an affiliation fee is paid- I think that is quite a separate issue from compulsory membership with the student union of any given university. Membership of the Guild of Undergraduates of the University of Western Australia only involves membership of the Australian Union of Students if the Guild of Undergraduates affiliates with the Australian Union of Students. If the Guild chooses to withdraw, then all the points the honourable gentleman is making fall down. State legislation does not force any university student body to affiliate with the federal body. 
However, that is not the most serious point in the honourable gentleman's speech. He made a statement about an attack on non-government schools by the Australian Labor Party Government. Joseph Stalin once said that education was a weapon whose nature depended upon whom you intended to attack with the weapon. He is not the only materialist who thought of education as a weapon. A great many people think of education as a weapon of their children's advantage over everybody else. While that may be an adequate view for a parent, it is not an adequate view for the Commonwealth and for the States. The adequate view for the Commonwealth or the States is that education is the instrument of every child's dignity, not the weapon of some children's advantage. The most absurd part of the speech of the honourable member for Kingston was his statement that the Labor Government had attacked the nongovernment schools. 
In the last biennium of the McMahon Government expenditure on all schools by the Commonwealth was $1 12m but in the Karmel biennium expenditure on all schools by the Commonwealth was $794m. Even allowing for inflation, that represents a vast increase in expenditure. The expenditure on non-government schools by the McMahon Government in its last biennium increased from $71m to the vicinity of $240m. In addition, there was the first ever expenditure by the Commonwealth on non-government teachers colleges which, in fact, in some cases got the status of colleges of advanced education. The Commonwealth undertook unprecedented responsibility for their financing. An increase in expenditure on non-government schools from $71m to $240 m would only be an attack in the mind of somebody standing on his head. That, I think, was the posture of the honourable member for Kingston in this debate. 
When the Karmel report was originally brought in it had inbuilt into it an allowance of 6 per cent for inflation. The inflation rate exceeded the 6 per cent for which Karmel had allowed. It is important to note that in the estimates given now for the rolling triennia there is no inbuilt allowance for inflation and so cost supplementation has to meet that situation entirely. Cost supplementation was introduced by the Whitlam Government in 1974 for each of the commissions to maintain the value of Commonwealth grants. It was possible, for instance, for information to be given about how supplementation affected each sector. As the honourable gentleman has been very typical in his speech the only schools which concerned him were non-government schools. He did not even speak of the special grants for the poorer non-government schoolsthe Catholic schools- so one can assume that he was speaking for the schools which had higher resource levels. 
In all these fields, however, not only were there unprecedently high grants but also they were affected by supplementation. For instance, if we look back at the Catholic systemic recurrent expenditure we see there was a supplementation of 18.7 per cent to allow for inflation. For nongovernment schools recurrent expenditure in 1974 there was a supplement of 10.2 per cent and then, in 1975, there was a supplement of 21 per cent. For the special education courses there was a supplement of 15.4 per cent and for the related teacher replacement for the special education courses there was a supplement of 16.5 per cent. So these supplementations maintained the purchasing power of the commission recommendations in every sector. The supplementation in the rolling triennia is a shorter term supplementation than the supplementation over 3 years. To allow for inflation and also for new programs, if I remember offhand, the extra expenditure on universities was about $3 16m over the period of the triennium. 
Because of the nature of the very expensive recommendations involving unprecedently large increases in expenditure as envisaged particularly by the Commission on Advanced Education and by the Technical and Further Education Commission, the Whitlam Government was unable to accept the sharpness of these increases. It asked for a suspension of the triennium for a year- a holding year- and then the resumption of the triennium. This was attacked by the parties who now sit on the Government side. However, their rolling triennium is not the restoration of what is understood by the triennium as we knew it in the past. I am not surprised at that, because in that respect Treasury disliked 2 things very much. It disliked the concept of triennial funding altogether and it disliked what it regarded as the privilege for education in the cost supplementation or the indexation of grants being made. Treasury was not happy about either of those things. It takes the view that if cost supplementation is provided inflation is inbuilt, whereas if cost supplementation is not provided and the institutions have to carry the can for inflation there would probably be a tendency for the inflation rate to diminish. That viewpoint was not accepted by the Labor Government and the concept of supplementation was introduced. The legislation for the 4 commissions which is before us at the present time is simply that supplementation concept brought up to date. The Opposition supports the idea that Schools Commission recommendations should be supplemented in this way. 
The honourable member for Kingston had some comments to make about the nongovernment schools. It would be better if he were to speak about the real grievance of the nongovernment schools, which is quite different from the points that he made. If the honourable gentlemen were to look at the Karmel report he would see that Karmel took the resource levels of the average State school as his norm and gave that an indexed figure of 100. All nongovernment schools were then assessed against that scale. Some Catholic schools had a resource index of less than 66 per cent of the government school. Some non-government schools had a resource index of 230 per cent of the government school. It was Karmel s aim to bring every school up to 140 per cent of the index over a decade. As far as the Catholic schools are concerned, their advance is not as rapid as that of the State schools. 
There is a curious paradox in State administration, if we compare 2 commissions. The States have not been as active in advancing technical and further education as they might have been but, as far as the government schools are concerned, the rate at which they are advancing from purely State expenditure is beyond what Karmel envisaged. In some cases their resource advance may be even 4 per cent a year. The Catholic schools in particular, out of their own expenditure efforts, are not having anything like a 4 per cent increase. So while the general concepts of the Karmel system may be continued and increased grants made to the poorer nongovernment schools to bring them up to the State school level, and then after a decade to 140 per cent of the State school level, the State school level is in fact sliding away from them because of the very special efforts that the States themselves have been putting into their own schools out of their own resources. I would hesitate to say that falling behind is a characteristic of every nongovernment school, but it tends to be a characteristic of the Catholic schools which, generally speaking, are the poorer schools in resource levels amongst the non-government schools. 
I do not want to make the suggestion that the poorer schools in resource level necessarily are the poorer schools in education. There are factors of devotion that are very important. In some areas where orders are strongly represented, and they tend now to be in remoter areas of the Northern Territory and in places like the Kimberleys, staff are committed to live there for years and years. It may be to serve Aboriginal communities. Some of them get to know the Aboriginal languages and the families. There are services which they can perform which State school teachers going to the Kimberleys for, say, a year or two and then being promoted out of the area and never really becoming familiar with the problems do not perform to an equal extent. 
Nevertheless, Karmel worked out very clearly a strategy for improving education in the nongovernment sector. It would not be true to say that sector is the most articulate. It would be fair to say, I think, that the parents who send their children to non-government schools of higher resource levels are more articulate than anybody else in the education area in the Commonwealth, with the notable exception of the parents of children in Canberra schools. I remember that when I was waited upon by a deputation of parents from Canberra secondary schools in particular, who seemed to be half the staff of the Australian National University, with a vast battery of educational experts, I felt like a piece of chewed string after spending an hour or two discussing their very articulate demands for their children. It does not surprise me that the resources devoted to education in the Australian Capital Territory  per capita  are 30 per cent or 40 per cent higher than the Australian average. I am bound to say that as Minister for Education I never experienced any Treasury resistance to high expenditure on education in the Australian Capital Territory because that is where the children of the Treasury officials are educated. I do not know whether that is an unduly cynical viewpoint, but it was a fact that I encountered very little criticism of expenditure in this area. 
It has to be recognised as one of the facts of life in education, and I say this to the honourable member for Kingston, that the more underprivileged a section of the community the less articulate they are about the needs of their children. One of the first decisions we made in education was that there should be a bilingual program in Aboriginal education. No demand for this came from Aboriginal parents. Many of them jumped at the opportunity of having education in their own languages in their schools when the proposition was put to them and I understand that it has now grown to a point where there is education in 22 Aboriginal languages around the Northern Territory. However, there was no articulate demand for it from Aboriginal parents, although they needed it. The Labor Government extended the Aboriginal secondary grants which the Gorton Government had introduced. The grants applied to Aboriginal children of IS years of age and over to enable them to stay at school, and we extended the scheme to all Aboriginal children in secondary education. There had not been a demand from Aboriginal parents for such a scheme but it met a very great need. Those parents were quite inarticulate. 
The States had never had a concept of disadvantaged schools, including inner city slum schools. No such concept existed and no demand came from the parents. I am not deriding the State Ministers in this respect. Quite rightly, they did not want the lists of what were regarded as disadvantaged schools to be made public because they said that many of the children and many of the parents who sent their children to what are classified as disadvantaged schools were very proud of those schools and it would be a stigma for them to be publicly classified as disadvantaged. Nevertheless, the children in those schools were disadvantaged and the fact that the Ministers could point to the pride that the parents had in the schools did indicate that there was not a demand for such a classification. There was some demand in the field of handicapped education, but in many of the States handicapped education had been a matter of private charity. We negotiated with the Country Party about what would be classified as A schools, and there were forty of them among the 9600 schools in Australia. I think it is fair to say that those 40 schools could make more noise than the other 9600 put together. On the whole, the children attending those schools had very articulate parents. I do not deride them for this. They had a very clear and direct conception of where their children were going. Honourable members should remember that the grammar school is much more relevant to the future of people who intend to enter the professions than other schools are to the future of people who will enter other sorts of occupations. That is the reason for the great professional interest. The Opposition supports this cost supplementation. It was introduced in our period in office. It is absolutely essential. I hope the day will come when the problem of inflation will be solved to the extent that the supplementation will be unnecessary. Until that day, cost supplementation defends education from the erosion of appropriations made for it. 
I desire to ask the Minister for Health a question. He will recall that his colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs stated on Wednesday that he believed that the Queensland Government would not impede the national trachoma and eye health program in treating Aboriginals in Queensland. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a report in today's  Age  that the Queensland Government is in fact hampering the program in that State by classifying it as a research project? Can he assure the House that the Government will not permit such opposition to prevent the Royal College of Opthalmologists from carrying out its vital treatment program and that if necessary the relevant clauses of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Law) Act 1975 will be invoked to achieve this goal? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that section 7 of the Social Services Act 1947-76 provides that the Director-General of Social Services shall be subject to any direction of the Minister in the administration of that Act? Is it also a fact that on 23 March 1976, the Minister for Social Security, in a Press statement and in subsequent correspondence, issued a directive to the Director-General that unemployment benefits would not be paid to school leavers during the long vacation and that this blanket policy was subsequently found to be invalid by the High Court? As the Director-General of Social Services stated on Friday that an automatic review of the claims of school leavers for benefits will not be undertaken by his Department, will the Minister, in accordance with section 7 of the Act, now instruct him to review all of these claims, or does the Government now disclaim all responsibility for its arbitrary and apparently illegal attitude of ignoring the High Court decision? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I present the Committee's report on the Middle East together with extracts of the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-This report is a substantial one and is the third report that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has presented to the Parliament on the general region known as the Middle East: the first 8 years ago; the second last year and the present one. 
The 'Middle East' was an epicentre in civilisation balance a millennium ago. It is, today, an epicentre for Euro-Asia and a great part of Africa and from this centre the waves of disequilibrium can sweep to the Australasian shores. The Committee has disciplined its investigation by examining the epicentre of Arab and Israeli tensions and their patron powers. We set down the facts as we discerned them and the discernable deductions we have made from those facts. However, we feel it incumbent upon us to indicate that the Committee cast a collective eye upon the periphery of the epicentre, particularly to the peripheral economic and military powers. We indicate the economic power of the oil producing states upon the periphery. A disturbance of a major order at the Euro-Asian epicentre would surely affect the Asian land mass as well as Australasia as it has in the immediate past and has begun to shake the economic stability of the industrialised nations once again. It is the hope of the Committee that the report will be debated by Parliament, digested by Parliament and will concern the Parliament. We think we can say as a 
Committee that we regard the subject matter reported as sombre. 
A sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence heard evidence from or held informal discussions with over 40 witnesses. The evidence was heard in camera but some of it is being tabled with this report. Because of the human tragedy in Lebanon and its outreach for Australia with its large Lebanese community, priority was given to aspects dealing with Lebanon. Members will recall that the Committee tabled on 2 December 1976 a report entitled  The Lebanon Crisis- Humanitarian Aspects.  This further report concentrates on the Arab-Israeli dispute, it evaluates the prospects for peace and war, and the likely outcome in the unfortunate event of another war. The report also examines Great Power rivalry in the Middle East, the Palestinian question, and the importance of Middle East oil to the world and Australia. The Committee also reports in some detail on Australia's growing interest in the Middle East. 
The comprehensive report culminates in a large number of findings but due to time constraints I shall mention only a few. In the always unpredictable Middle East situation a fifth war in the region- although less likely in the short term- is easy to imagine and yet unthinkable in its consequences, which are likely to be more serious than in previous wars. Arab warnings of a renewed use of the oil weapon is a gloomy prospect for the non-communist industrialised nations. The Arabs now have an additional means of diplomatic pressure- their vast reserves of petro-dollars accumulated since 1973. The Soviet Union, which has experienced reduced influence in the region, may be tempted to make use of the Soviet Union's improved military capacity for intervention in the Middle East and thus risk a confrontation with the United States. Another war is likely to involve a much wider participation of Arab states than in 1 973. 
In any lasting Middle East peace settlement whereby all parties genuinely concede the right of every state in the area to live in peace and security there is a need to take account of a number of geo-strategic factors which are outlined in this report. These include, firstly, Israel 's feeling of extreme vulnerability if confined to her pre- 1967 boundaries and, secondly, that over one million Palestinians live in Israeli occupied territories and could be an increasing source of internal unrest, and there are about another 2 million Palestinians who presumably aspire to the creation of a Palestinian homeland. 
The Palestinians' future must be resolved before the Israeli-Arab problem can be finally solved. There is widening support for a Palestinian homeland 'alongside' Israel. Preferably such a homeland should be associated with Jordan in the hope that King Hussein could keep dissident elements under control. While the Committee accepts such a concept in principle, it believes that Israel cannot be expected to allow a Palestinian homeland so close to the bulk of Israel's population until such time as the Palestine Liberation Organisation accepts Israel's right to exist. The Palestinian National Council declined to soften its attitude at its Cairo meeting in March. Australia has a moral responsibility to continue to support the survival of Israel- a small state with a democratic tradition. 
Despite the hair-trigger readiness for war in the Middle East 'confrontation' states, there is optimism particularly among conciliatory Arab leaders that a Middle East peace settlement can be negotiated at Geneva within the next 12 months. This optimism is largely based on the belief that the United States can persuade Israel to withdraw from the Territory it captured in the 1967 war. United States and Soviet rivalry has focused on the Middle East where the United States is now the dominating influence. The shape of negotiations in the months ahead will depend largely on Israel's response to any United States pressure towards a compromise. United States pressure is not unrelated to United States friendship with Saudi Arabia, and lately with Egypt, and is due to United States obligations to Western Europe and Japan, which are dependent on Middle East oil. The Americans are in a unique position 'to influence' Israel. Ultimately, however, the Israeli Government will make the decisions on any concessions that relate to Israel 's survival. 
Despite the great difficulties described in this report, the next year or two is a particularly opportune time to launch a major peace offensive in the Middle East.  President  Carter is still in his post-election 'honeymoon' phase and therefore in a better position to influence Israel; the Israelis, although politically more isolated, can bargain from a position of military strength, especially in relation to Egypt; and the 'moderate' Arab states are in the mood to talk peace and are less constrained by the PLO, which has at the moment little capacity for independent action. The parties concerned should use this opportunity. The Committee would like to see an early and lasting peace settlement in the Middle East but it is concerned that a Geneva Peace Conference and  President  Carter's optimistic statements about peace in the Middle East may build up a false expectation of wholesale concessions which Israel cannot afford to make. This may disillusion moderate Arab states with America's Middle East policy, and may cause Egypt to welcome again large-scale Russian military supplies, which would make feasible in due course another combined Arab round against Israel. The best prospects for avoiding war may result from a continuation of 'stepbystep' settlements but not necessarily on all fronts. There is little scope for Israeli concessions on the Golan Heights. 
The early 1 980s will be a particularly dangerous period in the Middle East. The world will be much more dependent on Arab oil in the early 1980s until such time as alternative energy sources can be developed. Israel will find the Arabs in a position of greater diplomatic strength due to their increased ability to wield the oil weapon. It may then be too late for Israel to make concessions to the Arabs, who are likely to have become disenchanted with United States peace efforts if they fail to bring results by then. The Arabs will then have the choice between the war option or the oil option, as practised in 1 973. Unfortunately for the peace of the world, the Arabs may combine both their options. The Arab oil producers have made it plain that in the event of another Arab-Israeli war the oil weapon will be used once again. Apart from the threat to Australia's oil imports, our security is unlikely to be directly threatened by a military conflict in the Middle East. However, increases in tension in regions such as the Middle East, where the super powers' strategic interests are great and where their policies may conflict, tend to increase Australia's own strategic uncertainty and insecurity. At worst there is always the possibility that a world war could originate in the Middle East. 
The Committee recommends that Australia should continue to work in a sensitive way to assist movement towards a permanent and peaceful settlement. The basis of Australia's action should be the recognition of Israel's right to exist in security, and the encouragement of Arab initiatives to settle the displaced Palestinians. Australia should work in international forums as well as in private consultations with friendly powers to support the efforts of the United States-the most influential power in the region-to achieve a lasting Middle East peace settlement. This may require support for the resumption of United States step-by-step diplomacy, should the parties to the dispute become disenchanted with the Geneva Peace 
Conference. Australia should give continued support to United Nations peace-keeping forces in the Middle East and, if requested, be prepared to enlarge its present limited contribution. 
Until such time as Lebanon can build up strong enough security forces to curb Palestinian forces in southern Lebanon, Australia should support the establishment in Lebanon's troubled southern border area of an effective international peace-keeping force to be drawn from disinterested powers. Such a force must also be of sufficient strength to curb armed incursions into and from Israel. Australia should support the implementation of limited forces zones and support the concept of great power guarantees, provided any state involved in the Arab-Israeli dispute is not forced to rely entirely on such measures for its continued existence. 
Australia should continue to expand its diplomatic representation in the Middle East. To ensure that Australia can independently assess the latest military tactics and technology used in the Middle East, several Australian ambassadors should have an Australian Armed Services attache available to them. To facilitate the potential for trade, Australia should establish diplomatic relations with Libya. Australia should encourage long term productive investment in this country from the Middle East oil exporting states. Australia should attempt to make itself less dependent on Arab oil supplies to lessen the possibility of heavy unemployment- it could be as severe as an additional half a million personsshould these supplies be reduced. Australia should give urgent attention to the development of a comprehensive national energy policy that will harness other potentially abundant energy reserves apart from oil, and that will conserve our scarce oil resources until alternative energy sources can be developed. It must be regarded as a realistic policy designed to deflect from Australia some of the consequences of conflict in the Middle East, particularly the use of oil as a weapon. 
Australian governments must make the Australian public aware of the need to conserve petroleum products. The only effective way to do this would be the introduction of some of the fiscal measures as canvassed in the Committee's report. In the event that the Australian Government makes allowance for the unpredictable Middle East oil situation by supporting a progressive increase in domestic crude prices in order to save a scarce resource, then a significant proportion of higher royalties should be allocated to the following: Firstly, to giving tax incentives for further exploration; secondly, to the development of alternative energy sources; thirdly, to increasing storage capacity for the types of crudes normally imported; and, fourthly, to the encouragement for research and development of suitable technology for the extraction of a higher proportion of crude oil from Australia 's existing fields. 
The federal tax of over 9c a gallon on liquefied petroleum gas raises little revenue; it should be removed to encourage the replacement of motor spirit. Serious consideration should be given to increasing the use of relatively abundant LPG by subsidising the costs of conversion. Subsidies could be given direct to the manufactures of engines suitable for LPG. Australia should progressively increase mandatory stock holdings of crude oil and derived products to 90 days reserve by 1981. Priority in the meantime should be given to improving stock holdings related to the defence capacity of Australia. Both Commonwealth and State governments should have at all times in advanced preparation the necessary legislation to implement the conservation of scarce energy products. Early priority should be given to the amendment of the Liquid Fuels (Defence Stocks) Act. 
We do not always appreciate the sense of impending disaster which governs thinking and policy in Israel, but the atmosphere is well conveyed by the notable Jewish writer Saul Bellow in his book  To Jerusalem and Back,  and 2 quotations from his book will suffice. Writing of conversation at a social occasion in Jerusalem he notes: 
The subject of all this talk is ultimately survival . . . At first it is hard to grasp this because the setting is so civilised . . . Here you sit at dinner with charming people in a dining room like any other. Yet you know that your hostess has lost a son; that her sister lost children in the 1973 war; that in this Jerusalem street, coolly sweet with night flowers and dark green under the lamps, many other families have lost children ... In the domestic ceremony of passed dishes and filled glasses thoughts of a destructive enemy are hard to grasp. What you do know is there is one fact of Jewish life unchanged by the creation of a Jewish State; you cannot take your right to live for granted . . . The Jews, because they are Jews, have never been able to take the right to live as a natural right. 
Even more starkly Bellow writes: 
And what is it that has led the Jews to place themselves, after the greatest disaster in their history, in a danger zone? A Jewish professor at Harvard recently said to me 'wouldn't it be the most horrible of ironies if the Jews had collected themselves conveniently in one country for a second Holocaust?' 
None can assess exactly the effect on the Likud Party, the core of a new government in Israel, of the moderating experience of office, but it is fair to say that its utterances are more militant than those of its defeated predecessors and in the longer term the likelihood of a renewed clash in the Middle East seems to have increased. I take this opportunity of thanking all those who contributed to the work of the Committee. 
Motion ( by  Mr Adermann  ) proposed: 
That the House take note of the report. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is one difficulty: The honourable member for Robertson could be regarded as having made a speech on the motion if he spoke for too fong. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fife)  adjourned. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  warned against preconditions for negotiations. He began his speech by quoting with approval the new platform of the Australian Labor Party on this subject adopted in Perth. It said that there would be no peace in the Middle East unless the right of Israel to exist were acknowledged and unless there were a Palestine homeland for Arabs. Palpably those are preconditions as far as many of the Arab spokesmen in the world are concerned. They are preconditions which are not acceptable in any public document of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. It was that fact which the Sub-Committee and subsequently the full Committee had to accept. One of the problems with which we deal is the fact that the PLO does not accept in any official document the right of Israel to exist. It does not seem to me to be very germane to the position that the Leader of the Opposition says that some of the leading Arab heads of government with whom he dealt took a different view. They have adopted a position where the spokesmen of what they regard as the Palestinian people are to be accepted as the PLO. 
There are many elusive contradictions in this whole situation. I had conversations with some of the most distinguished Arab intellectuals, one of whom had been a Foreign Minister. In conversations with him I found that Israel really was not there. An ideology called Zionism was occupying a part of what had been Palestine. The intellectuals regarded themselves as not anti Jewish but as anti-Zionist. Then, faced with the paradox that in fact the PLO has done nothing against Israel, nothing at all, but has attacked Jordan, has attacked Lebanon, has tried to undermine Kuwait and has recently fought Syria-for Arab authorities. But they said: 'Ah, but the PLO is not an entity; it is penetrated by Zionism and Communism and Zionism and Communism have turned the PLO against Arab states'. They said to me: 'If you doubt that Zionism did this, who has benefited from the fact that the PLO attacked Jordan; who has benefited from the fact that the PLO has attacked Lebanon, is fighting Syria and has tried to undermine Kuwait?' They point out that clearly Israel has and therefore Israel or Zionism has penetrated the PLO and has done these things. This is an astonishing way of thinking from our point of view. But professors who have been Foreign Ministers cannot be regarded as thoughtless spokesmen for the Arab people. 
I do not accept the diagnosis, but I say that it is an attempt to evade the unpalatable fact that what Arab governments have called the authority that should negotiate on behalf of the 
Palestinian people as they call them, the PLO has in fact fought and undermined Arab governments and has done nothing whatever against Israel and from that country's point of view has been an asset. If the heat has been taken off Israel at any time it has been by what has happened in Lebanon and by the fact that Syria ultimately had to intervene against the PLO in the Lebanon. The truth is that the PLO, for whatever explanation, has sought to destroy every Arab government which gave it hospitality. It sought to destroy Lebanon when the Palestinians were there. It sought to destroy Jordan. It has fought Syria and Kuwait suspended its constitution because that country was being subverted. 
These are the sorts of things that the SubCommittee had to try to cope with in its thinking. I was not aware at the time the report was being prepared of the thinking of Arab intellectuals who are of a more conservative kind, that the PLO had been penetrated by Zionism. But that extraordinary view was expressed to me. The positions that have been taken up by the PLO do not fit into the simple categories of the resolutions that have been passed by political organisations in Australia. 
There are other forces in the Middle East. There are many who take the point of view that the PLO is simply a fireball to tear down conservative Arab governments, to produce a situation in which the West will be denied oil. It is also said that one of the forces behind the PLO is the Gaddafi Government in Libya and behind Gaddafi stands the Soviet Union. That might be right or that might be wrong. But at least it is a more intelligent explanation of this seeming paradox of the strange activities of the PLO, which is supposed to be anti-Israel, being interpreted by Arab intellectuals because of its behaviour as an asset for Israel. 
But when people say that there should be no preconditions for negotiation, the mere fact that a negotiation takes place at all means that one has recognised that there is an entity called Israel with whom one negotiates, and that in itself is a precondition. There is no negotiation if there is no one there to negotiate with. If Israel is not a state but is an ideology called Zionism occupying some area called Palestine we are in a different situation. I do not think, as a man who has been in the Australian Labor Party long enough to know that Evatt was one of the major architects of the existence of Israel, and we recognise it, that we can go on pretending that something did not happen. What happened was there was an entity of Palestine- a British mandate. It was divided into the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the state of Israel. If there is an authority other than Israel that has an entitlement to the West Bank it is not some new entity called Palestine to be created, it is the state of Jordan which once came across the River Jordan and penetrated into the narrow waste of Israel that Israel obviously sought to eliminate when it was in a state of conflict with Jordan. 
The complication for Israel is that, while it might be quite easy to negotiate with Jordan, Egypt or others as existing entities if they were willing to negotiate with Israel, the PLO is a very elusive concept altogether. It is as elusive in fact as what is said by some Arab intellectuals- that Israel does not exist; that there is merely an ideology called Zionism occupying a part of a country that was once called Palestine. Honestly, I do not know how we can ask people to put their faith in resolutions of the United Nations if their existence is at stake. Splendid resolutions were passed by the United Nations in respect of Timor. That has not stopped 60,000 people being done to death. The United Nations did nothing about the disasters in Lebanon. I am afraid that at the moment we cannot ask that Israel should regard the United Nations as a safeguard. We would not do so. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Some of the problems which were wrestled with in the report related to the situation in the Middle East being seen always as unpredictable. The worst disaster which could come out of the Middle East is a world war. In chapter 4 the Committee looked back at the one time when a world war might have threatened but where, clearly, neither the United States nor the Soviet Union wanted to allow this situation to develop into a war. Specifically, the Soviet Union did not want to be pulled by those they were sponsoring. Paragraphs 4. 1 3 to 4. 1 5 commencing at page 142 of the report state: 
13 The dilemmas of the superpowers were deepened by the War of Attrition that raged between Israel and Egypt through 1969 and up to the American negotiated cease-fire of August 1970.  President  Nasser had launched the War of Attrition with the two-fold purpose of pressuring Israel to withdraw  from  the east bank of the Suez Canal and encouraging the superpowers to intervene and impose a settlement. Israel responded by using its newly acquired American F4 Phantoms as 'airborne artillery and by the end of 1969 had adopted a policy of in-depth strategic bombing in an attempt to force Nasser to accept a cease-fire. Instead  President  Nasser turned to the Soviet Union and by January 1970 the U.S.S.R. had agreed to supply Egypt with an integrated airdefence system comprising surface-to-air missiles, some 20 000 advisers and Russian piloted Mig 23s. 4.14 The Soviet Union had been forced to intervene to preserve  President  Nasser's regime, which it had come to depend upon for its influence in the Arab world. In doing so, the U.S.S.R. had taken a dangerous and unprecedented step which raised the spectre of superpower confrontation in a new war because of the direct involvement of Soviet personnel on the ground in Egypt. 4.15 The U.S.S.R. urgently required an escape route from its Middle Eastern dilemma that would reduce the danger of war yet consolidate its influence in Egypt. The Soviet Union therefore acquiesced in the American proposed cease-fire of August 1970 which ended the War of Attrition and reduced the dangers of a general war. But with the death of  President  Nasser and the succession of  President  Sadat, Soviet policy makers faced a new problem: Egypt might now enter into negotiations with the U.S. for a political settlement that would reduce Egyptian dependence on Soviet military aid. the currency of Soviet influence in the region. Thus the U.S.S.R. adopted a policy of preserving the 'no war-no peace' situation, by supplying Egypt with some arms and holding out the promise of more-a promise that apparently they did not intend to fulfil. By restricting arms supplies the Soviet Union would prevent Egypt from going to war and also prevent it from achieving the 'position of strength' necessary for negotiations involving the U.S. In this way the Soviet Union could exercise control over Egypt's belligerent aspirations while preventing a deterioration in its position of influence. This diplomatic finessing has proved impossible as a technique for success in that objective. 
There is a tendency in Australia to talk about the foreign policy of the Soviet Union as if it were an endless summer of successes. It was a very distinguished Egyptian Ambassador who pointed out to me that back in 1955, at the time of the Bandung conference, the Soviet Union was the dominant influence in China, the dominant influence in Indonesia, the dominant influence in Egypt, the dominant influence in Syria and the dominant influence in India. Now it is the dominant influence in none of those countries. It has switched its attention to a tightroping between Ethopia and Somalia. Somalia has given it bases and it hopes to influence Ethopia. But Ethopia and Somalia are in conflict with one another. The Soviet Union is in the role of urging them to be at peace with one another, obviously so that it can retain its influence with both. I merely say this: I am not making this statement as a denunciation of great power politics which are all in this game. I merely say that there is no infallibility in the foreign policy of the Soviet Union. It does not always succeed in its objectives. Its main strength in the Middle East is not its ideology, not its ideas, but its supply of arms. 
The Middle East is the most immense dumping ground for arms which I think has ever existed. We talk about the standards of living and Arab poverty. The annual expenditure on arms in the Middle East, as this document points out, is SUS 12,500m a year. Iran uses its oil wealth in a particular way. It is a Gulf country but it is an important country. It is back from the zone actually considered in this report. Iran has more tanks than all the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation powers put together. This oil wealth has not been used to a great extent to transform the living standards of the Arab peoples. A large part of it has been used to finance this massive expenditure on arms. Every economic problem of the Middle East as well as the living standards of the Arab peoples could be solved by a more rational approach. I think the one great point of hope in the Middle East has been the turning of Egyptian policy from the luxury of hating Israel and from the luxury of spending enormous sums of money on arms. A younger generation of Egyptians are asking for the raising of living standards in their country. It is that in which I put my hope, the development of rational convictions among the Arab peoples. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education: Have staff ceilings imposed on the Aboriginal bilingual education program in the Northern Territory been lifted due to the fact that the scheme was started only in 1973 and it was envisaged that there would be an increasing need for staff as the 
Aboriginal children concerned proceeded up the primary school? 
I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question. It refers to the actual and potential unemployment effect of falling nickel prices. Is the Minister aware that already over 600 employees engaged in nickel mining in the Kambalda-Kalgoorlie area have been dismissed by the Western Mining Company? Has the Government made any efforts to prevent these retrenchments or any further retrenchments? In view of the need for most retrenched employees to relocate to obtain alternative employment and the high cost of moving from a remote area such a Kambalda, can the Minister explain to the House why the Government has made no attempt to advise those dismissed employees of their entitlement to financial assistance for relocation under the Relocation Assistance Scheme? 
-When I was first elected to the Parliament I was 27 years of age and Leslie Haylen was 46. He took me aside as a young man and said: 'If you are going to specialise, do not do it too obviously or the Minister will feel you are after his job'. I think one of the tragedies of Leslie Haylen was that he was not a Minister, and I believe that he should have been a Minister in the Chifley Government. He would have liked to have been Minister for Repatriation, which in those days was a portfolio and a structure of law which was full of anomalies that used to make him very angry. 
But I am quite sure that his real first love was the field of international affairs. He confided to me on a couple of occasions that really his spiritual home was France. When I was first elected to the Parliament he had just returned from some parliamentary delegation in France. France was just corning out of the trauma of the Second World War, and he spoke of the spirit of the French people who had been through a terribly hard time. Yet he appreciated in the French nature the gaiety which was certainly in his own. I found it to be almost unbelievable when I read in his obituary in the  Sydney Morning Herald  that he was 78 years of age. Even when he left the Parliament at the age of 64 he seemed to have an outlook which was perennially young and I believe he retained that really to the end, judging from whatever I heard from him and from when I met him when he came here. I join with other honourable members in expressing to his widow Sylvia and his two sons our sincere sympathy. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs at any time transmitted through the Commonwealth a suggestion that Commonwealth forces should keep order in Rhodesia during a period of transition to majority rule and for some time thereafter? If so, what has been the reaction of the Australian Government? 
I desire to ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs a question relating to the fostering of Aboriginal children under the laws of a State or the Commonwealth when the child's home is unsatisfactory and the child is taken from the parents for the child's safety. I ask: Firstly, does the Department of Aboriginal Affairs seek to give the unsatisfactory family suport, counselling or supervision at any point? Secondly, is the child fostered, if possible, to a satisfactory Aboriginal family, having regard to the overtones from the past in taking an Aboriginal child from his own race? If it is wise to foster the child to a European family, are steps taken for the child to maintain some contact with Aboriginal people? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House, viewing with grave concern the recent report of the correspondent of  Paris Match,  Denis Reichle, that at least 70,000 East Timorese have been killed by Indonesian occupying forces, and his further report that 30,000 Indonesian troops are continuing actions which involve further deaths of great numbers of men, women and children; and bearing in mind that the United Nations does not acknowledge Indonesian possession of East Timor and that the question is not an internal one for Indonesia, requests the Government: 
to renew efforts to have the matter made the subject of United Nations restraining action; 
to call on Indonesia to allow reputable world organisations, including the International Committee of the Red Cross and a fact-finding mission of the United Nations, free and unimpeded access to East Timor, objectively arranged so that Indonesia has nothing to fear if it has nothing to hide; and 
to promote international action to rehabilitate an East Timor which has been given an internationally acceptable right of self determination. 
-by leaveMembers may recall that on 10 November 1976 I informed the House on behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that the Committee had agreed under section la. of its terms of reference to undertake an inquiry into the status of Soviet Jewry. I indicated also that due to the Committee's commitments in relation to other inquiries there would be considerable delay before the Committee could undertake investigation of this subject. However, public hearings on the status of Soviet Jewry commenced on 7 October. The emerging issue is that the Committee is faced with the problem of elucidating what the officially established Soviet ideology means in relation to any form of dissent, any form of separate national or ethnic sentiment and any form of religious conviction. In any case, in undertaking the considerable task of investigating alleged discrimination against Jews in the Soviet Union, the-. Committee needs to make comparisons with other groups in the Soviet Union which may or may not be disadvantaged. What, for instance, is the bearing of the Soviet Government's general religious policy on Judaism in particular? Is it selective against Soviet Jews. 
It has therefore been decided by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to rename the Sub-Committee on the Petition regarding Soviet Jewry as the Sub-Committee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union. However, the Sub-Committee will concentrate at least its initial attention on the status of Soviet Jewry in order to honour its advertisements which appeared in the national Press in late September. Whenever it is expedient and workloads permit, the Sub-Committee will take evidence in parallel for the following much broader terms of reference: 
Human rights in the Soviet Union bearing in mind Australia's support for the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Final Act of the Helsinki Agreement. 
I make this statement with the authority of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
I believe that the redistribution proposal for Western Australia is, to begin with, totally unfair to the National Country Party which in that State gets sufficient votes to merit its having one seat. The drawing of the boundaries in that State has meant that a significant rural seat which could have been designed on a community of interest basis is now lost to that Party. The redistribution in the metropolitan areas is what I might call the philosophy of  Senator Withers  which is how to immobilise the Labor vote by confining it to a very few super-safe areas while at the same time ehminating the National Country Party. I do not suggest that the commissioners accepted the philosophy of  Senator Withers  but the redistribution almost makes it appear as if they did. I believe the redistribution is very unfair. I remember  Mr Speaker  complaining about the redistribution which took place when the Australian Labor Party Government was in office. When the votes in Western Australia split 50-50 the seats went 50-50. 
It is a clear calculation of the Liberal Party that no matter what happens it will get eight out of ten seats, on 45 per cent of the votes. I think that is the way the redistribution works. I believe it is not a good redistribution either in terms of reflecting the will of the electorate of Western Australia or of taking into account community of interest. Therefore, I believe the motion should be defeated. 
I am not quite sure whether such kind praise was not the kiss of death put upon me. I must say that, watching my colleagues now facing an election and its attendant stress which I am not facing, I am reminded of Disraeli's statement as to his feelings in being a member of the House of Lords after having been a member of the House of Commons. He was asked what it felt like. He said: 'I am dead; dead, but in the Elysian fields'. That is almost how I feel at present. Although the honourable member commended me very warmly, he accused me of very serious cuts in my last budget in education expenditure. I draw the attention of the honourable member to the actual figures. In 1974-75 universities got $552. 3m. In the Budget in which he said there was a cut they got $569.8m. Colleges of advanced education got $393m. That rose to $405m. Technical education expenditure rose fom $70.6m to $10 1.3m- a 40 per cent increase. Expenditure on schools, pre-schools and child care rose from $594m to $664m. In addition there was a $70m appropriation for indexation to maintain the value. 
The honourable gentleman taxed us with not going ahead with the triennium. The triennium was suspended for a year. The honourable member spoke about empire building. I draw his attention to the fact that colleges of advanced education had had capital of $234m in a triennium, and the recommendation for the next triennium was $584m. That capital acceleration was totally impossible. I had called the education commissions together beforehand and said: 'We do not want the Commonwealth competing with itself for labour and building materials'. The recommendation was for $36m worth of building for the Western Australian Institute of Technology in the triennium, and there was a recommendation from the universities commission for $13m for the Murdoch University alongside. Very large sums were also recommended for various schools in Western Australia. Obviously it was impossible for the Commonwealth to compete with itself for the limited pool of labour and material is such a way in Perth and that illustrates the problem in many other localities. That was why the triennium was suspended. That is why the Commission on Advanced Education and the Universities Commission were combined. The present Government has gone further in the combination by adding-mistakenly, in my view- the Technical and Further Education Commission in the new tertiary Commission. 
However it is about schools that I wish to speak because those who have a tertiary education are the recipients of a great expenditure derived from the taxpayer by comparison with children in primary and secondary schools. Although I am not attacking that, I am saying that in one's priorities one cannot regard anybody receiving a tertiary education in Australia as underprivileged from the point of view of the Commonwealth's concern. I draw the attention of the House to a television debate not very long ago between  Senator Wriedt,  the Labor spokesman on education, and  Senator Carrick,  the present Minister for Education.  Senator Wriedt  objected to the Government's objective of a flat rate grant of 20 per cent of the recurrent costs of State education as the basic Commonwealth grant to non-government schools.  Senator Carrick  very properly said in effect: 'The Australian Labor Party in the Australian Capital Territory, in its territorial grants, granted the same flat rate 20 per cent to Canberra Grammar School as it did to Marist Brothers College'.  Senator Wriedt  also very properly replied: 'That Territorial Grant and what the States contribute as the state grant we regard as the basic grant to all schools. The differential according to need comes from grants at the Commonwealth level'. The controlling fact in Labor's thinking was that Karmel found that some non-government schools had about 40 per cent of the resource levels in recurrent costs of the average State school and some had 230 per cent or more. 
Everything that Karmel could have asked of the State governments in his. objective for the decade they have in fact carried out. In the maintenance of State government effort for government schools the progress which is occurring is faster than Karmel envisaged. For instance, Commonwealth and State contributions to the recurrent expenditure in non-government schools have risen between 1972 and 1976, but the level of resource usage in non-government schools in comparison with government schools over the same period has declined. In 1976 nongovernment primary schools had not reached on average the resource level used in government primary schools in 1972. 1 think this is where the guidelines of the present Government are mistaken. 
In 1976 the present Government indicated in its guidelines to the Schools Commission that the 1978 allocation would be 2 per cent more in real terms than in 1977. The actual allocation of $571m was the same as for 1977, but because cost supplementation will apply only to wages and salaries the real value will fall. The guidelines issued for 1978 require the Commission to allocate an additional SI 3.8m to nongovernment schools as follows: An amount of $8.8m to link Commission subsidies to nongovernment schools with government school running costs; an additional $2m to levels 1 and 2 schools, which are the non-government schools with the highest resource levels; and an additional $3m for the construction of nongovernment schools in expanding areas. I have no complaint about the $8.8m to continue to link the grants to non-government schools with government school running costs. However I complain about the mistaken attitude in requiring a deployment of resources to those non-  government  schools that already have resource levels far higher than the Australian average. 
Can we just forget about non-government schools for a minute and look at the position of a director of education in a State school system? What would be said of him if he deliberately pursued a policy of giving additional resources to those State schools that already had the finest equipment and the highest level of resources for their students at the expense of those schools with the lowest levels? He would be regarded as incompetent. I believe it is incompetent to apply to non-government schools of high resource level additional resources at the expense of nongovernment schools with poor resources. There is a requirement for an additional $3m for the construction of non-government schools in expanding areas. It is here that there is a real problem. 
In this matter I have a great deal of sympathy with anybody wrestling with this problem. After all, if we are talking about non-government education we might as well face the fact that we are speaking very largely about Catholic education. The Catholic Church has interpreted literally the direction to go into the world and preach the gospel to those who are in need of hearing the gospel, and family income is irrelevant. The Anglican Church in this country has tended to take the view in its schools that the direction was to go into the world and preach the gospel to those who could afford fees of up to $3,000 a year. That is a slight amendment of the gospel situation. However I leave that aside. 
There is a problem if we are talking about the construction of new Catholic schools. I think the 
House should face this. I am not arguing that the problem should lead to a lower resource allocation, but it is a difficulty. I had better invent imaginary dioceses; or I will be in trouble. Let us say the Bishop of the Abrolhos Islands decides that there must be a new school in the town of Tuxford and the Bishop of the Whitsunday Passage decides there must be a new school in the town of Dockington. Now taken all over, Dockington might be much more in need of a school than Tuxford. But if the Bishop of the Abrolhos Islands is more dynamic and can organise his people better then the school will come in his diocese in an area which, by comparison with Dockington, was not in need. 
When a beautifully logical body like the Schools Commission looks at need and never gets firmly into its mind that the Catholic Church is not a monolith but is highly decentralised as between different dioceses with bishops of vastly different levels of ability, vastly different levels of interest in education, vastly different ability to mobilise their people in an educational effort and with different numbers of schools run by orders that are not under their control, you have a somewhat illogical structure from the point of view of bureaucratic administration. You have, in fact, a highly decentralised administration. I am not complaining of this. They have been able to get over some difficulties and to set up in States Catholic directorates of education that are more logically bureaucrat. But the structure of Catholic organisation has not always appealed to the Schools Commission. 
I do appeal to the Schools Commission to come back to the conception we had about its work, that is, that it is quite irrelevant to the Commonwealth whether an Australian citizen happens to be a child in a government school or a child in a non-government school. They are all Australian citizens. The States, since Henry Parkes' day, had been carrying on totally unnecessary sectarian fights about government or non-government schools. They did not come into policy of aiding non-government schools really until the Commonwealth led the way into that field. The Commonwealth came into education as a new personality and did not need to be bound by the church and state disputes of the 1870s or the 1880s that had originated in the United Kingdom. Therefore we should look at all the children in State schools or in private schools, church schools, in terms of need, and as Australian citizens. 
The problem is twofold. The first aspect of the problem is that the poorer people are, the less critical they tend to be about what their children are getting in education. Secondly, the view of the Government about education ought to be somewhat different from the view of the parenteven the good parent. Now as a parent I want my child to have educational advantages, but honourable gentlemen opposite are not in the slightest degree interested in my child's advantages. They ought to be interested in education as an instrument of every child's dignity and every child's efficiency. That is part of the case for the differential grants according to need. If children have deployed behind their education already a very high resource level, it is not wise in a budget of limited resources to deploy more behind those children at the expense of those less privileged, who are not getting a proper deployment of resources behind their education. 
Of course as a reforming Commission the Schools Commission engendered quite extraordinary attitudes of suspicion. The Schools Commission came out with the recommendation for 'supported schools' that there was to be a category of non-government schools, ninety-five per cent of the cost of which would be met by the Commonwealth as long as they did not impose religious tests for enrolment. There was immediately a chorus from Democratic Labor Party quarters that this recommendation had emanated from Cabinet and that the Government was trying to produce control of Catholic schools, deciding whom the schools could enrol and whom the could not. Let me say that my distinguished colleagues in Cabinet were totally innocent of the idea of 95 per cent support for any non-government school, except in one particular area- the aboriginal mission area- that I shall mention in a minute. I think the people who were suspicious were also quite mistaken. The mere fact that some Catholic schools which has been catering for very poor children and therefore needed massive support got a rate of 95 per cent of its running costs from the Commonwealthand it was open to any child to enrolwould not mean that there would be a Protestant deluge into the school. So the people who criticised this particular provision, I think, were highly unrealistic. 
Finally, I sometimes wonder what church schools are about because we did make the decision to finance, 100 per cent, Aboriginal schools, mission schools, in the Northern Territory. Santa Theresa and various Catholic and Protestant missions like that had all their teachers paid as Government school teachers, their principal paid as a Government school principal and the staff were given the Government district allowances and so on. I suppose a very large number of the Aboriginal children who went to such schools were pagans; they were not yet converted to the Catholic or Protestant Church. But nobody was suggesting that because those children were pagans they should not go to that school. It happened to be what the school was about- reaching non christian families. I sometimes wonder, therefore, just applying that same philosophy into the metropolitan area, if some Protestant children do come to a Catholic school, what the school is about. It does not seem to me to be any more objectionable from a theological point of view than that children who are totally pagan come to such a school in the Northem Territory and presumably would then be on the way towards conversion. However, that is an aside. I do feel that there is a need on the part of church authorities to ask themselves many times over what their schools are about. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, spoke about very great rises in Commonwealth expenditure for education under the Labor Government. Those rises are indisputable and I want to say one thing about them. The working class generally tends to believe that education is a good thing; that other people get advantages and privileges out of it and therefore there should be more of it for them and for their families. We were not tremendously critical of education as education. We wanted access to be widened. Is all that is going as education on in the schools ideal? Is it achieving its aims? Though not intensely critical one thing that was done by the Labor Government to look at values in education was establishment of the Curriculum Development Commission. What should be the curriculum? What should be taught? The purpose of this Commission was to co-operate with State governments and private education authorities, to look at the nature of the educational process. The Labor Government also commissioned the University of Queensland to look at the value of the secondary grants that were being made to Aboriginal children and in what ways such grants could be perfected and improved for aboriginal families. There is a magnificent report as a consequence on this question by Professor Betty Watts. 
Criticism has been constant, but most of the structure of educational innovation introduced by the Labor Government has been maintained by the present Government. I disagree however with some of the changes in the guidelines for the Schools Commission. I should like to come back to a much simpler guideline. If the Government continues telling the Commission that it must transfer funds from here to there, it finally calls into question whether the Commission is being allowed to function. I do not think, as the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  suggested was an alternative view to the Government 's view, that we can just allow commissions a completely free hand. The guideline I should like to see is a sum of money. We could say for instance to a commission: 'We can appropriate $650m for you to spend. Will you tell us the most intelligent way to spend this?' That, I believe, is a defensible guideline for a government dealing with a commission. I think there is a tendency now for too much intervention against the independence of the commissions. After all, I think it is agreed that since the various Commissions came into being- those that were established by our predecessors and those established by ourselves- they have greatly advanced education wherever they were and they therefore deserve confidence and not undermining. 
I ask the Minister for Health a question concerning the Commonwealth's national campaign against trachoma and eye disease as applied in Queensland. Has the Government of Queensland threatened at any time to deny government hospital services to this campaign or to suspend such services? Would any political action by any employee be allowed by the Commonwealth to impede a vital health program for whites, as it apparently has allowed a program for Aborigines to be impeded? Is it because blacks in Queensland - 
-I propose to be very brief, but the references that have been made to me have been so gracious that I must acknowledge them. I must say that I looked up apprehensively to see my halo, but I did not discover one there. Haloes have a habit of getting battered in election campaigns; so if I have one it W111 not be battered over the next few weeks. You,  Mr Speaker,  did yourself less than justice when you said last night that I had administered a father of a hiding to you in an election in which we were opponents. You actually reduced my majority enormously in the election of 1949. Unlike the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  who said that he had his lowest vote when he first came into Parliament and his highest at his last election, I had my highest vote at the second election in which I participated and my lowest vote at the last election, in December 1975. I come to the depressing conclusion that either there are great swings of opinion or I have retired in time because the electorate was beginning to find me out. 

 Mr Speaker, first of all, I thank you for the grace and impartiality with which you have occupied that chair. It is a very difficult position in our Parliament. It is not so difficult in the House of Commons because of the acceptance of the  Speaker  there. You have fulfilled the office with great grace. You are beginning to be a  Speaker  whose words appear in the sayings of the week, and they are very wise sayings. Let me give you one of your predecessors utterances to me. The late Archie Cameron gave me a definition that really deserves a place in every Australian textbook on politiCS. He said to me: 'A referendum, my dear Beazley, is an appeal from those who know or ought to know to those who don't know and can't be bothered finding out'. He told me that that is what I would find over the years about referenda. I am not quite sure that that is what I found. I also thank the  Clerk, Mr Pettifer,  and his assistants who on many occasions have given me very valuable help. He is one of a procession of Clerks as far as I am concerned. Frank Green was the  Clerk  when I came here. There was then  Mr Tregear, Sir Alan  Turner and  Mr Parkes,  and now  Mr Pettifer,  all of whom were great forces for my education. Frank Green always used to say either that he was going to ring up  His  Holiness, which meant that he was going to take VAT 69, or that he was going to pay his respects to the British Royal Family, which meant that he was going for a George IV. I remember these utterances from when I was first elected. 
When I was first elected we had a Whip who, when the bells rang, would go out into the lobby on the Government side- we were the Government at that time- and in a stentorian voice roar down the passage: 'Factory whistle. Say those Protestant prayers'. I offer that to the Government Whip  (Mr Bourchier).  We then were obliged to hurry into the House. Those are memories. If I look at the benches there is a procession in the mist of many members, many of them dead, who really served the Australian people very well. I know that that sounds like a cliche, but they really did. If I look back over my 32 years, I think that the Australian community has got a very high quality of representation. If it has, of course, that is what it deserves. 
I think that some things are going wrong with Parliament. I have said that on various occasions. I do not propose to dwell on them now. I hope that all honourable members who are going to the election campaign will be able to battle well and to keep to the real issues. Bernard Shaw once said that an election was a moral horror like a war, only without the bloodshed. I do not think it is necessary for an election to be fought that way. I think that we sometimes become quite childish in this Parliament and think that everything marvellous originated on our side and everything disastrous originated on the other side. I do not think that is true. I have not been in the Parliamentary Labor Party, most of the time, in what might be called one of its lucky periods. The Labor movement has going through it all the tides of conflict that develop in the community. I have tremendous gratitude for all the colleagues I have had, including those with whom I have disagreed. I have tremendous respect for the new younger members. When I saw my colleague, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  on the  Four Corners  program last weekend, I thought his analytical style was superb. I believe that that method will take him a long way in politics. He was very briefly a Cabinet colleague of mine, before our careers in Cabinet were terminated somewhat abruptly. I say to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that, if we did not observe this custom of paying aU these gracious tributes, it was not exactly our choice; it was as a result of the abrupt termination of Parliament 
I thank my colleagues in the Parliamentary Labor Party for the confidence that they showed in me. I believe that their numbers will be augmented greatly in this election. I will not go into these controversies. I am now becoming a non.political figure in one sense. I wish them all the very best of luck. To all those who will be in the next Parliament let me say that I hope that it will be a fruitful and creative 31st Parliament. My first Parliament I think was the 17th and my last is the 30th. I can honestly say that in tumult or in comparative calm I have enjoyed them all. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Commonwealth Employment Service offices covering the electoral divisions of (a) Kalgoorlie, (b) Perth and (c) Tangney at the end of (i) August 1975, (ii) August 1976 and (iii) August 1977. 
What percentage of those registered was (a) male, (b) female, ( c) under 2 1 years of age and ( d) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
