I desire to ask the Minister for Immigration a question. Now that the question of an immigration policy is seen more in the context of Australia's manpower and economic programmes as well as part of the overall view of population growth and decentralisation, I ask whether the Government has in its long term planning considerations given any attention to long term population targets? Further, will the Minister have examined the range of assessments of the population Australia can support, which have been made by technical authorities, some of those authorities having given estimates as high as 100 million people? 
I rise to support the motion that the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral be agreed to. I would like to congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on being elected to your high office and ask you to extend my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees. Contrary to the suggestion from the Opposition that you should limit yourself to precedent set by your previous counterparts, may I warn you that to treat all precedent as gospel is the mark of the conservative, stunts initiative and limits man.oeureability. I realise that all the occupants of the Chair will treat regulations and Standing Orders with judicious respect, but I have no doubt that each of you will leave your individual stamp on this office and serve a term that will long be remembered for its objectivity, understanding and initiatives. 
However, if your offices are to have full effect it will demand co-operation from the floor of this House. As one journalist has said recently: 
To most of the public at large, Parliament unfortunately represents little more than an anachronistic gas' chamber where politicians make wordy speeches, throw around inane interjections and manipulate parish pumps. 
But as the same journalist suggested: 
Parliament is also a critical testing ground of philosophies, practices, personalities and parties and is the nerve centre of our political system. 
If we are to complement your speakership then this Parliament must become the undisputed nerve centre of the political system. Inevitably there must be changes if Parliament is not to be irrelevant to the people. 
A parliament is irrelevant when it becomes remote from the people, ignoring the swelling voice of change and supported by a voting system that is insensitive to change in electoral mood. It is irrelevant when it denies its responsibilities allowing economic decisions to be made in boardrooms and becomes subservient to minority pressure groups out of phase with public feeling. If this Parliament is to be the nerve centre of the political system it must honour that phrase which is the essence of democracy - 'government of the people, by the people, for the people'. Machinery must be developed that closes the gap between Parliament and people and is responsive to changes in public demands. 
The previous Government has only itself to blame for what the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  described as a rise in political strikes in this country. When a government avoids its obligations it leaves a vacuum of responsibility that will be filled by extraparliamentary bodies urged on by frustration at the inactivity of the Government. The program outlined by the Governor-General demonstrates that this young Government will not allow responsibility vacuums to develop and be filled by extra-parliamentary groups in matters of social security, health, industrial relations and equality of opportunity. This Government has indicated it will no longer tolerate the differences in the equality of life and opportunities between black and white, between town and country, between men and women or between rich and poor. 
Secondly, 1 would like to express to the electors of La Trobe my appreciation at being elected to represent them as part of a Labor Government in this Parliament and to acknowledge the reasons why they made their choice. 
The people of La Trobe have realised that Australia faced a crisis - a threat to the quality of life that should be due to all Australians and would be restored only when more emphasis was given to community programs in schooling, housing and employment. The people have turned to Labor, as they did in 1929 when the electorate of La Trobe was then part of Flinders. In that election a Prime Minister lost his seat. In this election the Liberal Party lost an independent and outspoken member in  Mr John  Jess. Some in this House and his supporters of the Right will undoubtedly miss the previous honourable member for La Trobe, but such loss should be seen as counter balanced, if not overshadowed, by the loss of the advocate of the Left with his fiery, volatile rhetoric, the previous honourable member for Sturt.  Mr Foster. 
The speech of the Governor-General captures the seriousness of the crisis and meets it head on with a 3-year program designed to achieve basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society. 1 wish to comment on the underlying theme of that speech for in the common denominator of the several parts of the pro gram lies the response and understanding of the crisis in the quality of life. In a- world that is experiencing accelerating change there is a clear failure of existing social and economic orders to meet the needs of modern society. Man's activities are increasing at a rate that is unprecedented. In the decade from 1960 to 1969, the world population increased by 600 million, 5 times the increase in the first decade of this century. The increase in the world's energy consumption in 1971 and 1972 considerably exceeded the total world energy consumption of a century earlier. This acceleration of change in our time is an elemental force. The thrust has deep sociological consequences and if we are to progress with change we need to mould a new economic and social system in this country and internationally. 
People have become increasingly aware that they have become mere statistics in the bureaucratic machine which is a feature of both capitalist economies dominated by huge international corporations and communist and fascist economies dominated by totalitarian governments. The Governor-General's Speech should be seen in the context of 2 main forces - the accelerating rate of change and the increasing concentration of power and property in the hands of a few. 
If people are to determine their own destinies, which is what democracy is all about, then democratic practice must coincide with economic reality. This will demand a degree of economic and social co-operation rather than competition that has not seen the like in this country before. In Australia, power and wealth are vested in property other than that used for consumption and unless this is shared more equitably, democracy and this ambituous program will never become a reality. 
The accelerating rate of change is placing great demands on education already suffering from the impact of specialisation. The demarcation between technocrat and decision maker becomes increasingly blurred and the adviser and policy maker becomes one and the same. Whatever the profession, the level of education reached or the social role expected, everyone must be able to live in harmony with each other and the environment. Our present education concentrates too much on preparing a person for a job-slot or earning an income rather than fostering a community spirit of freedom and justice, tolerance and social responsibility. The main argument against educational programming of the individual is the same argument that I use against censorship, the banning of social drugs and enforcing conscription. Such conformism denies the cultivation of self-discipline and social responsibility as well as obstructing the capacity of the individual to live with the accelerating rate of change. The government education system has not been encouraged to gear itself to change. The previous Minister for Education and Science, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  said that the virtue of the independent school system was in the diversity of education it offered and this was the rationale for increasing Government aid to independent schools. 
The Governor-General's Speech acknowledges the failure to provide such diversity to the majority of children by introducing legislation to establish a schools commission and a pre-schools commission. Among other directives, the proposed Schools Commission will be charged with the responsibility of assessing and achieving an increase in the quality of education as much as of the quantity available. As more than 75 per cent of children attend government schools, it would seem right that more emphasis be given to encouraging diversity in this sector of Australian education. To limit diversity to the independent sector only increases the divisions in society and perpetuates social and opportunity inequalities. 
In my own electorate of La Trobe, the Fern Tree Gully High School has suffered because the experimental program there had received little encouragement. Experimentation leads to diversity and if successful experiments are to be capitalised on, and errors avoided rather than repeated, greater Commonwealth responsibility must be directed towards greater diversity and parent involvement in government schools. It is therefore pleasing to note that another of the terms of reference for the schools commission will be to have regard to the primary obligation of the Government to provide and maintain government schools systems of the highest standard open to all children. Perhaps then we will see more comprehensive schools, more co-educational schools and a breaking down of the zoning system that is worked for the benefit of the bureaucracy rather than to increase the choice available to those who use the government education system. 
There are few conservation issues in recent times which have aroused so much interest as the flooding of the beautiful Lake Pedder which lies within a national park. The lake has become a symbol of what can happen when engineering projects are pursued relentlessly in the name of progress and without sufficient regard to the consequences upon the ecology and environment. To turn a phrase slightly: 'Oh Progress, what sins have been committed in thy name?' It is fitting that in the Speech, the Governor-General, as the Queen's representative, should echo the words of Prince Phillip when His Highness, as President of the Australian Conservation Foundation, said that the Lake Pedder case marked the end of Australia's pioneering days and ushered in a new phase of conscious concern for the long term future of our national and human environment. 
Perhaps it is too late to save the symbol, but it is essential we learn the lesson and not repeat any mistakes we might discover from an inquiry into the case of Lake Pedder. In my electorate of La Trobe there lie 2 gems in the Victorian environmental crown - the Upper Yarra Valley and the Dandenong Ranges. These areas are Melbourne's largest and nearest picnic spots and recreation areas. Each weekend, thousands of Melbourne's 2J million people go there by car to seek relief from the tension, pollution and noise of the city. Now these beautiful ranges are threatened by quarrying, the suburban sprawl and pollution through lack of sewerage. In the drowning of Lake Pedder lies the precedent of legalised rape of a national park. The Federal Government must assume greater responsibility for the preservation of Australia's national parks such as the Fern Tree Gully National Park and Sherbrooke State Forest and the public must be reassured that the evils of the past will not happen again. 
As technology becomes more capital intensive and as productivity increases it is inevitable that there well be a universally applied 35- hour week. The problem is not how to prevent that inevitability but how to use the increased leisure time for the fulfilment of all people. These national parks will become more important as increased leisure unlocks the opportunities to enjoy our environmental heritage. Because of the limits of our Australian Constitution the Federal Government will need the co-operation of all States if we are to protect the rights and national inheritance of future generations. The Department of the Environment and Conservation's proposals to develop a 'human progress' index will go some way to focus on the new values of society towards the environment. But 1 feel the Government will need to demand environmental impact statements for all major commercial and private projects as well as Government projects if the total objective is to be realised. No longer can Australia, or any nation, act in an irresponsible manner towards the environment, for a nationally committed error can become an international disaster. Over-fishing, the cumulative effects of pesticides, ocean dumping of mercury, oil and radioactive materials are now of international concern. Initiatives made in Australia will be to the benefit of all mankind. 
One of the more important tasks for which this Government was given a mandate is to provide a comprehensive public health service available to all as the fundamental right of every citizen. To achieve this objective there will need to be a change in thinking by all those concerned with health services, away from professional and commercial profit and towards a government sponsored and private co-operative community service. It is wrong that residents of my electorate should have to travel IS miles or so through heavy traffic to attend a regional hospital. It is wrong that life should be endangered and the likelihood of complications increased because there is no regional hospital with full casualty department and full operating facilities to serve the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne. But now, under this Government's program, this fast growing sector of Melbourne may soon experience the security of adequate health care. The proposed establishment of a National Hospital and Health Services Commission will survey and develop regional co-ordination of health care delivery so that no person will be jeopardised unduly by where he lives. 
The range of health initiatives by this Government is wide, and as a pharmacist I am particularly pleased to refer to the Government's intentions to reduce the cost of pharmaceutical benefits as part of that scheme. The Governor-General's Speech includes a proposal for the expansion of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories into the production of non-biological pharmaceutical products and possibly to acquire a private firm to supplement CSL with new technical management and marketing skills and methods. The high cost of drugs means that this Government has a great and important responsibility to the public to ensure that maximum benefit is being obtained from each dollar spent on CSL. It will be our task to cut down the annual cost of drugs to the national health scheme, now standing at over $160m a year. We will use an expanded CSL as a pace-setter in the pharmaceutical industry to achieve this. 
It is significant that the inquiry conducted by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits revealed that the pharmaceutical drug manufacturing industry in Australia, which is overwhelmingly dominated by overseas multi-national corporations, is one of the most profitable industries in this country. Profits exceed 20 per cent on capital expended even without allowing for hidden profits. It has been estimated that the expanded CSL could save the taxpayer as much as $80m each year, or 18 per cent of the total cost of the present national health service bill of $420m. By entering into the manufacture of more important and commonly prescribed drugs, and incidentally those of greatest profitability, we can save the taxpayer almost 20c in each $1 he now outlays on the national health scheme. 
There are 2 other influences that exert downward pressure on drug prices that should also be mentioned. Prices paid by the Department of Health to drug manufacturers are assessed on cost structures, but detailed information of local cost figures cannot be demanded from them. With CSL in the market as a public enterprise we will have access to this reliable, important costing data. Secondly, an important reduction in the price of penicillin could be achieved if CSL, which sets the market price for penicillin, did not have to load the price to recover its expenditure on research and unprofitable but essential life saving biological products. The House of Representatives Pharmaceutical Benefits Committee in its 1972 report, in which it recommended examining the expansion of CSL, also recommended that, in the public interest, the Commonwealth should meet the costs of these unprofitable, life saving activities of CSL. 
The Director of CSL has said that with 12 months notice, $5m in capital and extra buildings and staff, CSL could enter competitively into the drug industry. As well as saving the taxpayer about $80m each year on expanded activities it would save $6m on the $15m annual cost of penicillin. To illustrate what I am saying, I ask leave to incorporate a table showing a comparison of Australian and United Kingdom prices received by drug manufacturers of selected items. 

<graphic href="082131197303061_37_0.jpg"></graphic>

It should be noted that comparable cost data are available to the British Government and that the cost of penicillin in Australia is  2i  times that in the United Kingdom. This enterprising move will not only help to reduce drug prices to the taxpayer but also contribute to making CSL once again a service to the public rather than an operation for commercial gain. 

 Sir, there are some who will criticise the pace of Labor's program and its spread. But after 23 years, the magnitude of our problems, the rate at which they are growing and the agonising crawl in which institutions respond mean that we must make a start at solving all our problems. Our pace is also governed by the resources, manpower, expertise and funds available to us. It is an enterprising and ambitious program that attempts to encompass the problems that prevent a better quality of life for all people. No less will do. 
The comments of the  Deputy  Leader of the Oppostion  (Mr Lynch)  would have rung true and not sounded so hollow if his Party had passed this legislation during its term of office. I refer to the actions of the previous 2 Prime Ministers when the Liberals were in office. First of all, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  stated at one time that he expected the 21 years voting age would be reduced to 18 in a very short time, but in a duel of semantics he explained that 'expected' did not mean 'promised' although one would have expected that if a Prime Minister, particularly of the Liberal Party, was in control of his Party an expectation would have meant a promise. The last Prime Minister stated that he would not introduce legislation to lower the voting age before the last election. So I say that the words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition were hollow and did not ring true. I feel that the Liberal Party's lack of support for such legislation during its term of office resulted from its fear of loss of electoral support. Or does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mean that the political climate which his Party wrought to maturity actually matured on the eve of the last election rather than going through a process of maturity during his Party's term of office? This is in effect what the content of his speech amounts to. That is just as absurb as saying that the 21 years voting age rests on the notion that a person on the eve of his 21st birthday is not fit to vote but the next day he awakens full of knowledge and wisdom and entitled to vote. 
I support 'the lowering of the voting age to 18 years at federal elections. The Australian Constitution has been referred to by many as an anachronistic document and for many reasons. Just to mention a couple, section 92 has been said to be a barrier to the essential Commonwealth legislation in the fields of commerce. Section 51, giving specific powers to the Commonwealth, has allowed a hotchpotch of health and eduction systems to develop when it is increasingly obvious that we should be aspiring to a unified nation with standards that do not suffer by reasons of place of residence. Many of these anachronisms are tempered by High Court interpretations. Indeed, the Rocla Pipes case of 1970 would seem to indicate that a new avenue is open to the Commonwealth, such as a Companies Act, extending Commonwealth's powers under section 92 of the Constitution. The. imbalance of finance and functions between .the 3 tiers of Government can be relieved of' its distortion through the Australian Loan Council, the Premiers Conference and the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
But there is one section which has recently been debated. I refer to section 30 which deals with enfranchisement. The Federal Constitution - the overriding authority in the matter - provides by section 30 for the election of the Federal Parliament. It states: 
Until the Parliament- 
That is, the Commonwealth Parliament - otherwise provides, the qualification of electors- i- 
For the Commonwealth Parliament -  . . shall be in each State that which is prescribed by the law of the State. 
Consequent upon this section in the Constitution, the Commonwealth Electoral Act of 191 8 provided:   all persons not under twenty, one years of age . . . who are natural-born or naturalised subjects of the sovereign, and not subject to certain disqualifications not now material, should be entitled to enrolment. 
This would be simple enough if all States were uniform in their laws for enfranchisement. But although all adult males were entitled to the vote in all States by 1900, female suffrage was accorded in only 2 States at the time of federation. These 2 States - Western Australia and South Australia - probably showed early signs of a progressive culture for they now both have Labor governments. Two other States, probably indicating their reactionary and conservative culture, did not introduce female suffrage until after federation. Both States now have conservative governments - Victoria, which introduced female suffrage as late as 1908 and Queensland, which introduced it as late as 1905. 
These anomalies aside, the more recent debate has centred around the lowering of the voting age in several States, including once again Western Australia and South Australia. It should be noted that these States are leaders in extending voting rights in line with increasing responsibilities. These States, jealous of their State rights and justice, would seem justified in demanding votes at Federal elections for their enfranchised under their State laws, but section 41 of the Federal Constitution states: 
No adult person who has or acquires a right to vote at elections for the more numerous House of the Parliament of a State shall ... be prevented by any law of the Commonwealth from voting. . . . 
They are prevented from voting at Commonwealth elections. This anomaly between State and Commonwealth voting laws and this anachronism of the Federal Constitution was tested in the High Court last year. The resolution of this case revolved around the meaning of the word 'adult' in section 41 of the Constitution. Taken together in the cases of King v Jones, McEwen v Hackert and James v Jones, it was held by the whole court that: 
An 'adult person' within the meaning of s. 41 of the Constitution is a person who has attained the age of 21 years. 
Four judges assumed, without deciding, that the words 'acquires a right to vote at elections for the more numerous House of the Parlia ment of a State' in section 41 of the Constitution refers to a right given by a State law which came into force subsequent to the enactment of the Constitution before the framing of franchise by the Commonwealth. In other words, it referred to 1900 and, hence, the anachronism. It was so held by the whole court having regard to the nature and function of section 41 that the term 'adult person' in that section should not be accorded a vague and imprecise meaning such as 'mature person' but should be construed as a term of fixed connotation bearing the ordinary meaning - it possessed both at law and in common usage - that is, a person at the full age of 21 years as used in contradistinction to an infant at law. 
It is this point on which I wish to expand. The Chief Justice also held that to change the franchise for Commonwealth electors it was not necessary to change the Constitution but only to change the Electoral Act as provided for under section 30 of the Federal Constitution. It is fortunate that this Bill we are now debating can remove the anachronism and the anomaly of depriving 18-year-olds of voting rights while demanding of them adult responsibilities,, rather than having to go to the people to change the Constitution. This debate and the passing . of this Bill centre around whether we should lower the age of qualification for enrolment, voting and candidature, for Commonwealth parliamentary elections to 18 years. Many countries have a lower voting age than has Australia. Fiftythree countries have a franchise age of less than 21 years. The 18-year-old literates of Equador and the 18-year-old male Jordanians - but not Bedouins - can vote. Where does that put us in comparison? Of particular relevance to Australia are those countries modelled on the Westminster model of government - the United Kingdom, New Zealand and, to a lesser extent, the United States In Canada the franchise age is 18 years, as it is in Ceylon and the United States. In New Zealand it has been reduced to 20 years. In Britain the voting age was reduced to 18 at the same time as the age of majority was reduced. In the discussion about the desirability of lowering the age of majority no document has had quite the impact of the report of the Latey Commission. The Latey Commission did not specifically look at the question of the voting age but argued very strongly for . the reduction of the age of majority to 18 - hence the tie up with the High Court decision. The Commission said: 
What the history does show is that there is nothing particularly God-given about the age of 21 as such, and that things do change in the light of changing circumstances. 
Those changing circumstances bring about changing responsibilities and a differing definition of what is meant by maturity. This arbitrary age of maturity did centre around that of the age of bearing arms - an historical one, it is true, but it has relevance today. Many people have said: 'If you are old enough to die for your country, you are old enough to vote for your country.' Yet the previous Government allowed voting under the age of 21 only to those who were serving actively overseas, most of whom were conscripts. It is an indictment against the previous Government that it did not lower the voting age so that the people could determine whether or not there was going to be a government that would send them overseas to fight for their country. It should be the right of all 18, 19 and 20-year-olds, who have physically matured earlier and who do bear arms in the historic and present sense, to have that vote. 
They are better educated, if you like. Children of 18 are going to school and with the rising school leaving age, it will become increasingly so. But with better education, which does not come entirely from the school but through the media, these people are better equipped to have a vote at that age. These are all reasons why we can regard people of 18 to 21 years as being as well equipped as 21 year olds to vote responsibly. But then, we already regard them as mature in commercial, legal and social spheres. 
Even though there is no clamour for it from some 18-year-olds, a case can be made for giving them this right. Many of them work and pay taxes; thousands of youngsters have been conscripted at the age of 20 and in some areas 18-year-olds may, or soon will, be able to enter into contracts, dispose of property, take and defend legal actions, or front up to hotel bars, and more teenagers are becoming politically and socially aware. In Australia, we would have to agree with the Latey Commissioners who, in their conclusion, stated: 
By 18 most young people are ready for these responsibilities and rights, and would greatly profit by them, as would the teaching authorities, the business community, the administration of justice and the community as a whole. 
The Commission settled on the age of 18 years for several reasons, including greater maturity, the fact that by 18 most people are running their own lives, and the fact that people of 18 have other responsibilities and consider themselves capable of acting maturely, this being their own conviction. 
It has been argued that young people are not interested in politics and that people who do not care should not vote, but in my opinion that is not an argument against extending the vote to 18-year-olds but against compulsory voting. Surveys show little or no difference in trends or interest in voting between persons under 21 years old and those over 21 years old. This is the conclusion of recent surveys of various public opinion polls. As well as revealing levels of interest in politics by Australians the surveys compared the results of similar investigations made in Britain. This destroyed the myth that Australians, in general, are less interested in politics than the corresponding social groups in the United Kingdom. 
The principal argument on which to base a decision, to give people the right to vote before 21 years of age should be that, mature or not, they are in fact becoming increasingly involved personally in social, financial, industrial, cultural and political issues of importance and that to take a meaningful and responsible part in society they must have the right to vote. This would be to them a challenge to develop the awareness that is necessary to play an articulate political role in the community - responsibilities far too often shunned by people who have the vote solely because they are 21 or older. This might even apply to some of the under 18 year old schoolmates of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who was trying to interject a moment ago. 
Many States are waiting for this Parliament to extend the franchise to 18 years of age so that they can proclaim or enact similar legislation. Not only do South Australia and Western Australia provide for the franchise at age 18 but New South Wales has passed legislation to lower the voting age to 18 years although it has not proclaimed it. Victoria has announced its intention to lower the voting age before the next State election. In Queensland, Cabinet has approved the principle of votes for 18-year-olds and in Tasmania the lower House already has passed a Bill which includes provision for lowering the voting age to 18. The States recognise that youth is becoming a larger percentage of the total population and forms a distinct sector that needs representation. It has been estimated that with the voting age reduced to 18 years between 700,000 and 800,000 people will be added to the rolls. We are warned by 2 countries what to expect if the franchise is not extended to 18-year-olds. Those 18-year- olds will fee] that their rights are being neglected or ignored. 
I am fortunate to have come across a speech by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  who quoted from an article which appeared in 'Playboy' magazine. At the time he apologised to my predecessor,  Mr Jess,  who, he incorrectly had said, had lent him the magazine. The honourable member for Kooyong referred to events that took place in the United States Senate.  Senator Jacob  Javits, who is a well-known United States senator, wrote a very compelling article in this magazine. It was related to the age of majority. He said: 
To me the most compelling reason for lowering the voting age ls that American politics needs the transfusion that younger voting could give it. Almost without exception, today's 18. to 20 year olds - those of college age - are better educated and more highly motivated toward political action than were their fathers and grandfathers. 
It is essential to our country that their idealism and activism find a genuine release within our established political framework. Unless young people know they are involved, idealism tends to turn to cynicism. 
In New Zealand, a member of the Government,  Mr Moyle,  when in opposition, said that the most serious threat to New Zealand politics was the increasing level of nonparticipation. He said that youth was forced to move away from the normal democratic process and toward direct action when they did not have the vote. 
This House cannot obstruct the desire of the people. The Government secured a mandate at the last election. It was plain to the people that the policy of the Australian Labor Party was to reduce the voting age to 18 years. As mentioned by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  a growing percentage of people, according to the gallup polls, supports this proposal. However we should note from these polls where the opposition lies. It seems, from an analysis of these polls, to be well and truly rooted in the conservatism of the Democratic Labor Party and the Liberal and Country parties. Why are these parties frightened? Youth patterns, in their voting tendencies, are very similar to those of persons aged over 21 years. No real conclusion can be drawn, especially when the trends are related to State elections, because of the size of the samples. However, I suspect that an increasing number of young people support Labor. This is in line with a theory that support of youth groups tends to come in 20-year cycles. The Chifley Government enjoyed the support of youth until about the time of its demise. During their stronger terms, the Liberal governments enjoyed the support of youth. If we can take any indication from these imprecise gallup polls, Labor enjoys that support now, but even then it depends on where these people live and the size of the constituencies. I believe that such support will merely magnify the present majorities of all parties. 
It is not a defence of the present position to give a point of view about the behaviour of 18 to 20-year-olds. It is a matter of recognising that this age group already has adult responsibilities which require the bestowal of adult privileges. It is not a defence to delay this Bill through an argument of costs in extending the rolls, although this excuse applies more at State level. The arguments for lowering the voting age are strong, be they based on social, legal or civil rights grounds. The arguments against lowering the voting age are based on fear of losing electoral support. I commend the Bill to the House. 
This Bill proposes amendments in 2 areas to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. The first area relates to the conversion of business and industrial equipment to the metric system and the second to contraceptives. These items are probably in no way connected. But as one of the pharmacists of this country I might add that we have dealt in metrics in regard to contraceptives for many years. I will try to be more relevant than speakers from the other side of the House who in my opinion used their contributions to this debate to rationalise their inactivity in the area of family planning or at least in the role that the Federal Government should play in the field of family planning. 
This Bill will remove from the Second Schedule to the Principal Act those classes of goods that are specified as being subject to sales tax at the rate of 27* per cent. The Bill will remove contraceptives from that classification. Amongst those items in the First Schedule which are exempt from sales tax are included various forms of contraceptives. The inclusion of contraceptives in this grouping is irrelevant because this item is grouped along with slot machines, gambling machines, totalisator machines and the like which are strange bed fellows indeed. But one method of birth control, the rhythm method, has been jokingly referred to as Vatican roulette, so maybe this is a proper grouping. 
We can say that sales taxes or indirect taxes generally influence patterns of consumption by discouraging or encouraging consumption through the imposition or removal of that tax. If the tax is increased the consumption of non-substituted products goes down. If the tax is reduced consumption generally increases. Also, indirect tax or sales tax can be used as a government policy for expanding or constricting the economy. But this can be used only where the product is in great demand, as is the case with motor cars. Therefore, I say to the House that the sales tax on contraceptives cannot be related to either of these 2 principles of taxation. In fact, in the past the tax on contraceptives has been nothing more than a moral tax. 
On 24th August last year the then Prime Minister was asked by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  why the Government did not look at the question of the abolition of sales tax on contraceptives. The then Prime Minister replied: 
In forming the Budget we looked at the whole question of a reduction of indirect taxation. We studied the cost involved and the value that might accrue if there is a reduction of the kind that the honourable member mentioned. In this instance we thought it was preferable to devote the money involved to other causes rather than to implement a reduction in indirect taxation. 
I think that answer reinforces my argument that in the mind of the previous government it was a moral tax and was not used for other purposes. During that Budget debate  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, the then Federal Minister for Health indicated that removal of the sales tax would cost between $3 .4m and $3. 6m annually - a mere pittance. To the individual the saving would be about $3 per year, but to the community the saving is inestimable. Unwanted pregnancies result in criminal abortions, battered babies, emotionally deprived children who become juvenile delinquents, deserted and neglected children whom the State must support, and children with inadequate education. This matter was brought out well earlier by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  These social problems not only lead to misery for the individual and the family but also increase enormously the cost of community services - social, medical and legal. Facilities to provide cheaper birth control are inexpensive and are negligible when compared with the cost incurred by the failure to make them cheaper. Those people who see all cost benefit approaches in economic terms will be pleased to learn that by reducing tha price of the pill and making it more readily available to those who need it, production in industry should actually increase. In support of this proposition I mention that on 16th October 1971  Dr Margaret  Raphel in an article in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' entitled The Role of "the Pill" in the Workforce' said: 
From a study of 825 employed women, it appears that oral contraceptives enable women to work better. The users had fewer menstrual symptoms, and took less time off at work, were less worried about unwanted pregnancy and were less accident-prone. 
In any developed country similar to Australia which boasts of an affluent society there always exists an underprivileged group, varying between 10 and 20 per cent of the population. Most of this group cannot afford to see a doctor, the usual source of family planning advice, so that poverty and ignorance are often found together. 
In 1971 a preliminary study was carried out to determine the factors influencing the use of family planning by women from a lower social group in Melbourne. By far the most common reason for employing birth control was financial - 2 out of every 3 women in this group gave this reason. I think this should indicate that the group which needs - cheaper contraceptives are precisely those people who are at present discriminated against. Last August in Sydney Lord Caradon, a member of 2 United Nations committees dealing with population, addressed the first Regional Medical and Scientific Congress of the International Planned Parenthood Association. Describing population growth as one of the world's dominant problems, he said it was tied up with such problems as economic development, the environment, urbanisation - to use that terrible word mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition - and unemployment, and that to solve these problems it was necessary to solve the population problem. Unfortunately the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has reduced this debate to a discussion of zero population growth in this country. It should be seen as an overall policy and attitude, because it is not just the problem of the underdeveloped countries; it is our problem too. Although the Leader of the Opposition cannot understand this argument I shall explain it. 
The people in the developed countries consume 20 to 50 times as much per head of the world's resources as do those people in the underdeveloped countries. In this event, surely we have an obligation not only in the domestic sense but also in the international sense towards population growth. When the importance of birth control is considered in the wider context of the world's problems, having a tax on contraceptives is like putting a luxury tax on antibiotics or on health. The previous Government has been guilty of enforcing a tax on health items. Let me explain. The oral contraceptive, a form of low dose hormone treatment, has a double function. As well as being an effective contraceptive it is used for period disorders - drysmenorrhoea, amenorrhoea and the like. It would be difficult to know exactly how many women have been penalised for following a doctor's prescription in paying this sales tax because it is classified only as a contraceptive. A study of working women in Sydney in 1969 gives a clue. Of the 43 per cent of married women in the sample, 13.5 per cent were taking the pill for gynaeological reasons, and of the single women 60 per cent were taking the pill for medical reasons. These women were obviously discriminated against by the previous Government. In other words, at that time there was operating a luxury tax on health. 
Some persons oppose greater availability of contraceptives because they fear that Australia's population growth will be lowered. For them, recent figures provide reassuring data. Despite an ever-increasing number of women taking oral contraceptives, now exceeding 30 per cent of women in the reproductive age group, the birth rate has actually risen from 19 per thousand in 1966 to 20 per thousand in 1968 and has continued to increase until just recently. The main reason for removing the sales tax is not its effect on population but the right of the individual woman to choose what her own personal contribution to that population will be, and not have her choice thwarted by any Government. 
In Australia birth control is not so much a question of community affluence, as it is in underdeveloped countries, but is consequent upon a pressing need to space children in a society that demands higher education standards and other non-material benefits. Women should have a right to plan a family and space their children. Any tax on or increase in the price of contraceptives works against that choice and that right. Parents should have the right to decide how many children they want and when they want them, and they should be freely given the means to make that decision. Many people do not have that freedom. They do not know that they have a choice. To many people this may seem fantastic, but this ignorance must be tackled. Not only must people be aware of contraceptives, they also need to know how to use them and they need to be able to afford them. Unless this matter is seen in the whole context it is seen in isolation and a role cannot be forged for the Federal Government in family planning. 
I return now to the topic of discrimination. To retain the sales tax on contraceptives is an unjustified discrimination and penalty against Australian women wishing to practice responsible methods of family planning. Further, it discriminates more against the poorer people - the very people who, because of our iniquitous economic system, need to be protected most from large unwanted families. It discriminates against those people who employ different contraceptive methods. The previous Government was never able to tax those who used natural methods, such as the rhythm method, but were able to tax those who used more reliable methods. In other words the more efficient the method the more tax. 
I shall quote from Hansard an example of the former Government's inconsistency so that the honourable member will not think it is nonsense. On page 667 of Hansard of 7th March 1972 a Government spokesman said: 
Another factor to he considered is that oral contraception is only one of a number of methods of contraception. Any action to exempt oral contraceptives from sales tax would create a precedent for the removal of the tax from other forms of contraception, such as diaphragms and intra-uterine devices. In terms of the current provisions of the National Health Act, pharmaceutical benefits are confined to drugs and medicinal preparations, and thus diaphragms and intra-uterine devices, which are quite widely used, could not be included in the list of pharmaceutical benefits. If all forms of contraceptives were to be exempted from sales tax the cost to the Commonwealth in revenue foregone may well be as great as the saving to the Commonwealth under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme resulting from the exemption of oral contraceptives from tax. 
The nonsense seems to lie on the Opposition side of the House in the inconsistency of its argument. 
Objections to this Bill will no doubt be raised by those who anticipate that this legislation will open the floodgates of licentious behaviour and undermine the moral and social fibres of this country. Even the  President  of the United States of America has said that in his opinion widespread distribution of contraceptives would 'do nothing to preserve and strengthen close family relations'. The same argument has been called on by the Leader of the Opposition. But this is begging the question and is irrelevant to this Bill. The Bill is designed to make contraceptives cheaper and to remove the discrimination against free choice exercised by women. The part played by modern, effective contraceptives in the so-called sexual revolution cannot be easily separated from many other influences that bear on changes in attitudes and behaviour of following generations. The contraceptive can both stabilise marriage, if the Leader of the Opposition is so concerned for the family unit, by removing fear of unwanted pregnancies or it could encourage infidelity for the same reason. We cannot prove which way it will go because it depends on the individual. 
A breakdown of inhibitions against premarital intercourse is also cited as a consequence of better contraceptive methods. But this view is over simplistic. The social mores are bound up in the wider context of culture. On the other hand proponents of cheaper contraceptives argue that so long as girls cannot be prevented from having sexual relations - I hope the Opposition is not intending to introduce legislation to that effect - they might as well be protected against pregnancy and its consequences. 
It is certain that young people need protection against unwanted pregnancies. One report on this subject in the United States stated that teenagers bear two-fifths of all illegitimate babies. The divorce rate is approximately 4 times as high for those who marry in their teens as it is for couples who marry later. The same report found: 
There was no evidence that teenage extra-marital sexual activity increases in proportion to the availability of prescribed contraception. 
With a society which is more conservative in culture than the United States, Australia could expect similar findings. Removing sales tax as this Bill provides goes only part of the way to making contraceptives more readily available. We must realise that removing sales tax from contraceptives is only portion of the whole question of family planning; it is the part that can be played by this Government in providing such a service. Removing that sales tax, luxury tax or entertainment tax, as I have sometimes heard it called, from contraceptives is only one approach that the Labor Party, this Government, is committed to introducing in its overall program to support family planning as the right for all. 
We are committed to setting up family planning clinics which could provide facilities in the 3 areas in which we need to improve our family planning services, namely, advice, education and free supplies of contraceptives for those who need them. We have placed oral contraceptives, when prescribed by a registered medical practitioner, on the pharmaceutical benefits list. This has reduced the cost of one month's supply of the pill from about $2.10 to $1. From 1st April this amount will be further reduced to Si for 2 months supply. It is estimated that a further 824,000 Australian women would use oral contraceptives if they were available completely free. 
Undoubtedly prevention is better than cure and education is the best contraceptive of all. This means that the study of reproduction should be an essential part of a child's schooling and should begin at an early age - not just secondary school, not even primary school, but a natural and gradually developing awareness and understanding right from pre-school days. I believe that with modern contraceptive methods available there would be fewer abortions and much less of the unhappiness and ill-health which results from unplanned pregnancies. 
In a report in 1972 the United Nations said that abortion 'is the single most widely used method of birth control in the world'. But in none of the countries where, abortion is legal is abortion advocated as a desirable method of contraception. Abortion is a horrific experience for most of those involved and is used only as a measure of last resort. It is our responsibility to lessen the need to resort to abortion by making contraceptives cheaper and more readily available. This Bill helps to do just that. 
The former Liberal-Country Party Government consistently refused to take a realistic view of family planning techniques and their availability. It refused to make any move to allow contraceptive advertising or to remove the sales tax on them. The removal of restriction on advertising of contraceptives is a policy of my Government. Contraceptive advertising is illegal in all States except South Australia. Yet the Prime Minister announced within a fortnight of the last Federal elections that the ordinance prohibiting the advertising of contraceptives without authority in the Australian Capital Territory would be amended and that soon a similar amendment would be put before the Northern Territory Legislative Council. The legitimate advertising of contraceptives is a natural and proper extension to removing sales tax on contraceptives if they are to be made more available to the public. 
To add to the nonsense and counter-productive effect of prohibiting advertising of contraceptives, most States are prevented by law from even advertising the activities and services of government supported family planning clinics. Although the Postmaster-General's Department has relaxed its vigilance on the detection of contraceptive advertisements and literature under the Commonwealth Post and Telegraph Act, it has a blanket ban in its guide to standards for radio and television which prevents contraceptive advertisements on these media. The main media used for this sort of advertising in Italy is television. 
My time has almost expired, In conclusion, the main reason for removing the. sales tax from contraceptives is because the tax discriminates against women and their choice to bear a child. Advertising of contraceptives and family planning clinics are, in general, outside the sphere of this House: They are predominantly State matters. It is in the Territories that the Commonwealth oan sponsor a whole range of family planning initiatives, but Australia-wide we can make a significant contribution to family planning by removing the sales tax on contraceptives. In the current debate, on abortion law reform the subject of family planning and the role of family planning in this is often overlooked. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. (Quorum formed.) 
 I support clause 3 of this Bill. It is unjust to uphold an electoral system which is biased either for or against any section or area of electors. It is the intention of the Opposition to perpetuate that injustice with an argument based on rural weightage. Clause 3 sets out to remove that injustice. Rural weightage is a bias against urban Australians and has acted against urban dwellers who have formed the majority of this country for more than 50 years. Let us examine the main argument for rural weightage. The Opposition asserts that unless we have small rural seats it will be impossible for members to service or interview their electors. However most electors write or telephone their member of Parliament. The request for a personal interview on some matter is infrequent. Most requests are those that are best filled by the member acting as an ombudsman or by a regional ombudsman. Most of these activities are completed by telephone, telegram or letter or by personal interviews with the Minister or government departments. The aim of the Country Party in this debate is to confuse electoral service with parliamentary representation. I remind that Party that we are debating an Electoral Bill not a services and property Bill. Moreover the incidence of problems encountered by the member is not directly related to the number of voters in an electorate but to the social environment that produces these problems and to the alternative avenues of redress open to the electorate - a mixture of lobbying power and wealth. 
What electorates provide most of these ombudsman-type activities? It should be obvious that the most densely populated areas will provide the most work. The most disadvantaged areas, as measured by lower socioeconomic groupings, are precisely those less likely to have alternative channels of representation or redress. These areas are the electorates with higher percentages of migrant population, greater incidence of poverty and higher than average levels of pensioners or oneparent families. Members of this House do not represent only those electors who voted for them or even just the electors; they also represent those who do not have the vote those migrants who have elected not to take out Australian citizenship and the thousands of children too young to vote. Would any honourable member deny them representation? Where are these people more likely to live? Not in the country but in the city and rural-urban electorates - in places like Mount Druitt, in the electorate of Chifley, where 70 per cent are under 14 years and in my own electorate of La Trobe, which covers more than 1,000 square miles, with the second largest voting population in Victoria and with a fair percentage of migrants and an above average population of pensioners and one-parent families. It has 2 people for every one on the electoral roll. I represent twice as many people as the number of voters would indicate. The Melbourne electorate is worse off. There, 2 voters represent 5 people. But in the rural electorates - for instance, Corangamite or Wimmera - each 3 voters represent only 5 people. This scale must surely undermine, if not completely destroy, the argument that country electorates should be smaller in numbers of voters than other electorates. 
Examine any of the arguments used to support rural weightage and the only conclusion that can be drawn is that it benefits the Liberal and Country parties - the parties that represent the better off and the best lobbied interests. It is not an exaggeration to say that under the present Act these interests are overrepresented. Furthermore this Parliament does not represent land areas; it represents people - not places but faces. Is it any wonder that the nomination of the Country Party for a new national anthem has as its first line: Gwydir still yet Gwydir'? The way to guarantee that the people are equally serviced by being equally represented is to ensure that there are sufficient resources and facilities available to the member to carry out his duties - more facilities and backup personnel rather than more dollars or voting power to the individual member. 
There is no case for preserving those iniquitous factors contained in section 19 (2) of the Act which the Distribution Commissioners are required to observe. These are factors based on remoteness, sparsity of population and the area of the electorate. Factors that allow a party which gains 8 per cent of the votes to enjoy 16 per cent of the parliamentary representation have no place in an Electoral Act that should enshrine the basic democratic principle of one vote one value. Clause 3 of this Bill attempts to maximise that principle. To persevere with an electoral distribution which denies the voters the right of determining which people or parties represent them in Parliament is a denial of democratic practice. 
The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review in 1959 certainly saw it in this way for it regarded a tolerance for certain electorates of 10 per cent above or below the quota as sufficient to do justice to rural interests. The Committee also considered that the device of creating substantial disparities in the number of enrolled voters and so securing for a political party greater representation than it should have is, to quote the words of the Committee, 'in all its forms thoroughly subversive of the democratic process'. 
The amendments made to the Electoral Act in 1965 showed that the Country Party was prepared to ride rough shod over democracy to ensure its political survival. The loading of 20 per cent was the price at which its coalition partners, the Liberal Party, valued democracy in bowing to this demand. Yet, with this contribution to history behind it, the Opposition during this debate has declared that it does not reject the concept of one vote one value. What hypocrisy! The Opposition's defence is that there is no time at which that can be achieved in all its pristine purity. So rather than work towards its stated objective it prefers to reject the whole objective. Either it believes in one vote one value or it does not. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. One vote one value means, logically enough, that areas or boundaries be drawn to ensure that each voter in an electorate has as much influence as any other voter in that or any other electorate. 
Of course, with a growing and mobile population it would be impossible to achieve this at any single point in time. For practicality it is necessary to set a tolerance, the maximum of which will be a compromise between the ideal of exact equality and that variation which can be rightly charged as weightage in favour of an electorate or electorates. Under the existing legislation the maximum figure is 20 per cent above or below the quota. The Country Party acknowledges this as a weighted figure, for its whole argument rests upon it. But there are no factors which overshadow the argument for one vote one value. There must be a compromise and accordingly this clause provides for a 10 per cent variation. This allows a variation between the smallest and the largest electorate of 20 per cent. The Act at present allows a 40 per cent differential. Any greater variation than 20 per cent would be in conflict with the constitutional requirement common to both Australia and the United States of America that members of the House of Representatives should be elected by the people. This does not mean they should be elected by privileged groups or privileged paddocks but by the people. 
Realising the contradiction in its argument, the Opposition falls back on the spurious argument that with a tolerance of only 10 per cent above or below the quota we would be causing a frequency of redistribution that would undermine the work of the Distribution Commissioners. A changing and growing population is not an argument against more frequent distribution but an argument in favour of it. In any event, redistributions will be held only after each census. How else would the Commissioners accurately measure changes in population? The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  would rather cloud the issue and allow one electorate to be twice as large as another than speak in defence of the principle of one vote one value, the most basic principle of democracy. 
The Westminster system of government is meant to be both representative and responsible. Not only must this Parliament be representative by observing equal electorate representation so that urban, country and fringe areas are represented equally, and so that socioeconomic groupings are represented equally, but it must guarantee that as far as practicable one man's vote is equal to the vote of any other man, no matter where he lives. To be responsible means that the Government must receive the majority of votes cast by the people and a change in electoral support must be reflected by a change of parliamentary support. This sensitivity can be preserved only when the voting system and electoral boundaries express the principle of one vote one value. I commend the clause to the Committee. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
 I rise to support the Social Services Bill (No. 2). My interest in the Bill probably stems from the fact that there is a large percentage of migrants in my own electorate. Of course the concern goes wider than that. It is a concern for those who are eligible and who have qualified for social security and have satisfied the qualifications to take that social security with them overseas. My particular interest in the electorate stems from discussions with Italian, German and Dutch, but particularly British migrants in my electorate who have informed me that they are reluctant to take out Australian citizenship because they feel that they are not getting a fair deal if they do not. first of all, come from a country that has reciprocity with Australia or if they have not served their 20 years qualification period. 
But before we discuss the qualification and the reasons for shortening the qualification period for portability we should know something about those people who leave this country in their retiring years and particularly those migrants who have returned to their former countries. It is informative to look at a progress report on an inquiry into the departure of settlers from Australia compiled by the Immigration Advisory Council's Committee on Social Patterns. This states that 4 important things have been happening with those people who have departed from this country after migrating here. The report states: 
First, arrivals in Australia between 1947 and 1952 have had a relatively low rate of loss and will probably finish up losing well under 20 per cent of the original intake: arrivals between 1952 and 1964 seem to be heading for a loss of 20-25 per cent, while more recent arrivals may finish up with even higher loss rates. 
Examination of this shows that it reflects the lower proportion of refugees in current immigration - that is, refugees tend to stay more than other migrants - the greater ease of travel in recent years, the strong economic attraction of western Europe, and the growing number of skilled and highly qualified persons who, as part of an increasingly mobile international community, often move from Australia after a few years. 
Basically those are the reasons why people return to their country of origin. We should examine why we are losing more and more of those people who have served not only the 20 year qualification period which previously existed but also the 10 year qualification period proposed in this Bill. During citizenship ceremonies I am reminded that the reluctance of migrants to take out Australian citizenship stems from the fact that they do not feel justly rewarded for the contributions they have made in this country. This is one reason for their departure and points to the desirability of recognising the contributions that migrants make in this country in 10 years. We should acknowledge that they should receive the same benefits as those residents who were born here. The main reasons why they return to their country should also be examined for it will be found that the most often mentioned reasons are homesickness, loneliness or the lack of health services available in this country compared to those in their home country. This may well be an indication that we are lagging behind similar industrialised countries. When we consider the contribution that residents of this country have made we realise that social security is not just a question of how much tax we pay to finance our social security system but also what one receives in return. I put that in as an aside. It does underscore one of the basic reasons why people return to their mother country and reminds the House that one of the reasons for bringing in this social security Bill is a recognition that we must update and improve our social security and provide better value for each dollar spent on it so that it can stand comparison with the social security systems in the countries from which most of our migrants come. 
This Bill recognises that there have been many changes occurring in respect to mobility between countries. The Committee on Social Patterns in its progress report estimated that the rate of settler loss in Australia lies between 21 and 24 per cent. This estimate is related to the arrival and departure movement over the past 6 years. These figures indicate that, as anticipated by the Councils Committee on Social Patterns in its report following the 1967 inquiry, the loss of settlers from Australia has been increasing and some further increase can be expected. The report states: 
The Committee concludes that, while there is an increasing tendency for migrants to leave Australia, this is in keeping with patterns of movement which were already in evidence during the previous inquiry and which conform with those being experienced currently by other migrant receiving countries throughout the world. 
It seems to me that the previous Government was remiss for not noticing the results of this inquiry into the increase in mobility and for not as a result reducing the 20 year qualification period to 10 years. An indication of the tremendous growth in the movement of people to and from Australia over recent years, and the relatively small proportion of those people who are settlers, is shown elsewhere in the Committee's report. However, the report reflects a general trend towards mobility now in evidence throughout the world. Even if this Bill were not designed to stem the departure flow of migrants it does recognise the increase in mobility that has taken place throughout the world. The Committee in its report stated also: 
In the interim, however, we stress that the problem of settler loss must be seen against the background of world-wide high mobility of labour and the steady improvement in economic conditions and social services in several countries of origin. It must also be seen that Australia's ability to retain its migrants depends to a large extent on the opportunities available here and elsewhere and the acceptance of settlers by the Australian community. 
So, as fast transport telescopes the distance between Australia and the country of origin and telescopes the travelling time between the 2 countries we must recognise the increasing trend towards mobility and consequently reform and adapt our present legislation to take this factor into account. 
As the legislation now stands there is discrimination against those people who desire to spend their later years overseas rather than in this country. It is time we restored the parity between the benefits provided and the contributions that were made in this country. I mention one case in point in my own electorate. I was informed by a lady from Holland who had settled here but had decided to go back to her home country for family reasons that she would be deprived of a pension because she had been here only 191 years. When we realise that she and her husband, while he was working, gave so much to this country in that 19i years of residence it seems not only anomalous but also a shame that the previous Government did not recognise that a period 6 months short of 20 years, let alone 91 years over the qualifying period now proposed, was surely something which should have been accepted for the purpose of the benefits. 
 The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  asks: What about 9i years? There must be an arbitrary cut off point and if he recognises the arbitrary cut off point, in terms of that 19* years I mentioned, either his mood has changed now by a decade or in 4 months he has come to recognise that the qualifying period should be reduced by 10 years. This shows a cognisance on the part of the honourable member of what the situation is and I congratulate him. It must be remembered that even if migrants spend only a few years in Australia they contribute to our national development while still more is contributed by those whose departure from Australia does not take place until they reach retiring age. It would seem that those who have been here 19i years are even more qualified to take with them their portable pensions than those who have been here for only 9i years. In other words, they are twice as qualified at 20 years. 
In conclusion, this Government aspires to achieve the position where no Australian citizen is disqualified from receiving a social service pension on account of his period of residence in Australia or because of residence abroad. All Australian residents who have qualified to receive any Australian social service benefit should continue to enjoy that right wherever they choose to live. This concerns principally the aged, invalid or widowed migrants who choose to return home. It should, of course, apply to all Australians. Furthermore, we believe that entitlement should not depend on the negotiation of reciprocal agreements with other countries or upon a 20 year residence in Australia. For many of our migrants this is an urgent matter. It is pleasing to note that the provisions of the Act will apply from the date on which this Bill receives Royal Assent. It cannot come soon enough. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to an advertisement in the Melbourne 'Age' on Saturday, 7th April inserted by the Australian Heritage Society, a division by the League of Rights, in which it is stated that 'moves are afoot to tamper with Australia's heritage without the people being consulted'? The advertisement seeks a postal vote on whether people want to change the Australian flag; abolish the Crown in Australia; have the Federal Constitution destroyed and all power centralised in Canberra. If his attention has been drawn to this advertisement, can he assure the people that they will be consulted on these matters if any changes ire intended by this Government? Will he also assure the people that unauthorised persons who tamper with such matters will be dealt with? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Has his attention been drawn to today's news headlines and report to the effect that the Town  Clerk  of the City of Knox in Victoria said that a survey carried out by his council had shown that the cost of a building block in Melbourne's outer eastern suburbs is rising by an average $48 a week or up to 62.6 per cent a year? What action is intended by the Government, through the Minister's Department, to ensure that this frightening land price inflation is curbed? What cooperation and initiatives have been indicated to him by the Victorian Government to bring about a situation in which young married couples saving for land as part of their land-home unit will not need to increase their savings by an almost impossible $80 a week to obtain their objective? 
 I second the motion. For too long, abortion along with the ugliness that is associated with it has been ignored as if by tacit agreement. Abortion is an emotional subject for it touches upon the whole process of life, the quality of life and involves not only citizens but doctors, theologians and legislators. The present law concerning abortion is in urgent need of reform. Consider a law that deprives women, of whom half are married, legal abortions on request and so causes untold misery, hardship and exposure to squalid dangerous surgery at the hands of 'backyard' abortionists. It is a notorious fact that women determined to have an abortion will not be deterred from their objective in spite of its illegality, after being refused by a doctor. They will risk legal penalty and even death to rid themselves of an unwanted pregnancy. 
It is said that any woman who wants an abortion can obtain one under the present law. It is true that women with money and connections can obtain an abortion from a competent and cautious doctor operating in an efficient suburban clinic. However, the majority of women are forced to go to the unqualified 'backyarder' abortionist who profits on the restrictions of the law at the expense of these women. We should not allow the health and the lives of women to be threatened by these people. We cannot allow the reproductive capacities of these women to be destroyed or damaged by bungled abortions. If there is any amendment to this Bill I would like to see the penalties against these unauthorised abortionists increased. It is impossible to make any accurate estimate of the number of induced abortions performed in either the Australian Capital Territory or Australia. However, calculations based on police and hospital records, comparative figures from overseas and local surveys on the incidence of abortions indicate that about 75,000 to 100,000 abortions are performed yearly in Australia. Most of these abortions are illegal. 
Consider a law that allows this number of illegal abortions to take place without any prosecutions. It is an unenforceable law because most peope do not regard abortion as murder. Juries refuse to convict as in the recent 'Heatherbrae' case decided in Sydney in October 1971, and State governments make no move to tighten the law. Society does not equate abortion with murder. Probably the most extensive survey done on attitudes to abortion in Australia was carried out by Caldwell and Ware of the Australian National University during 1971. They concluded that, in their metropolitan survey, 32 per cent supported abortion on demand, and that, after analysing the results of other questions, more than half of the community clearly approved of abortion on request. Furthermore, adamant opposition to any legalisation of abortion was maintained by no more than 14 per cent of the sample. This study seems consistent with both an Australian national opinion poll of March this year and this week's gallup poll in which 23 per cent favoured abortion on demand and 86 per cent favoured abortion on demand or under certain circumstances. The only conclusion that can be drawn is that the great majority of people consider abortion is a matter between a woman and her doctor, and that the law has a limited place in the matter. 
Consider a law so vague and in need of clarification that it does not allow a doctor to carry out his medical and clinical judgment. Afraid of prosecution and uncertain of their rights under the law some doctors are refusing women an abortion when they are in need. This is also the situation in the United Kingdom. In their submission to the Lane Committee during the inquiry into the workings of the 1967 Abortion Act the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, in section 68 of its report, requested clarification of the law concerning abortion so that gynaecologists can continue to apply their knowledge and skills to serve their patients as they think best, and this without fear of litigation unless they are professionally negligent in the ordinary sense of the term'. 
Clarification of the law as it operates in the Australian Capital Territory is the major purpose of the Medical Practice Clarification Bill. Members of the medical profession can no longer be placed in the position where they may confuse law with ethics. Furthermore this Bill provides that no doctor may be forced to carry out an abortion against his conscience, judgment on evaluation of medical ethics. This Bill is truly for abortion on on request and not abortion on demand. Consider the hypocrisy of a society that expects a woman to bear children against her will and then does little to support those children if in need or even suggests adoption so that other women can be happy at her expense. Most unwanted pregnancies result in an unwanted child - a child subjected to emotional and material deprivation and one more likely to develop into a deprived and unwanted adult. Social workers inform us that every child who is born unwanted is more likely to swell the ranks of the social misfits. Who would argue with the moral slogan 'Every child has the right to life'. I venture no-one, least of all members of this House. But who would look beyond the rhetoric of what is implied in that slogan by anti-reformers and ask what is meant by 'child' and what is meant by life without quality? That same moral slogan can be better and more accurately expressed as Every child has the right to be wanted'. 
Bad laws, unenforceable laws, unpopular or unworkable laws all contribute to making the law 'an ass'. The present law on abortion is such a law - unrealistic and hypocritical, and should be reformed. Parliaments have not faced up to their responsibility to society in ignoring the ugliness of abortion. Parliaments have not protected all the rights involved when they force women to bear children against their will. Currently a woman can have no ultimate choice on this matter unless she breaks the law. This lack of freedom of choice cannot be accepted by people who respect basic individual rights. Governments which deny their responsibility by failing to provide efficient family planning programs and then prohibit abortion on request can only be described as architects of double standards. I warn this wholly male House that it is because we are males there is a great danger that we will ignore the needs and rights of women in this matter. Laws are made by men, sanctioned by a male dominated church hierarchy and imposed largely by policemen, and yet we will never bear children ourselves. 
I warn those who oppose reform that they must show beyond doubt how they will enforce the law and charge those whom they consider as thousands of murderers, how they will prevent the tragedies of illegal abortions and how they will demonstrate their concern for the child batterings that result from unwanted children. They must also show beyond doubt that they can better the benefits to society and individuals that have accrued overseas following the liberalisation of abortion laws. Statistics show that, following reform to abortion on request in the early stages of pregnancy, the incidence of morbidity and mortality due to abortion has dropped because abortions are now carried out under proper conditions. Illegitimacy has declined. Because abortions are more likely to be carried out earlier in the pregnancy there are less mental and physical complications for the woman and backyard abortions have almost ceased to exist. They must convince society that they will eradicate police corruption associated with illegal abortion such as that uncovered in Melbourne during the Kaye inquiry. 
There is not necessarily an increase in the number of abortions following abortion law reform. The main increase in legal abortions results from the transfer to open and legal abortions from illegal abortions, and from overseas or other areas where the law is less liberal.  Sir George  Godber, the Chief Medical Officer of the Department of Health and Social Security in the United Kingdom, published a letter in the British 'Medical Journal' of 18th November 1972 in which he stated:   the number of legal abortions has increased greatly but seems to be reaching a more stable level. 
But total abortions will not drop until reform is linked with an adequate and coherent family planning policy. This is the main criticism that can be levelled at the United Kingdom legislation. Family planning by way of contraceptive advice is part of this proposed legislation. The Bill is unique in that it provides that following termination of pregnancy it shall be incumbent upon the doctor to advise the woman of the use and availability of contraception appropriate for her. 
But the responsibility of the state should go much further, for the incidence of abortion is a function of the use of contraception rather than of morals or laws. The state has a responsibility to ensure that abortion is a last resort. Barriers to both the knowledge and practice of effective birth control in Australia have meant that 50 per cent of pregnancies have been unplanned, and some of these unwanted. Religious proscription is not the greatest barrier to effective contraception. Anachronistic laws that still restrict the advertising of contraceptives and limit sterilisation procedures play a greater part. Sluggish action by governments has meant that only recently has the sales tax been removed from contraceptives and the 'pill' been made available as an item under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Educational sex programs involving contraceptive techniques are greatly lacking in school curricula. There is a severe shortage of family planning clinics in local communities. However, despite the widespread availability of contraceptives the state is unable to police their use, or guarantee their complete effectiveness. Not every woman or man can use contraceptives due to aesthetic, religious or physical reasons. Unwanted pregnancies will still occur. Full government responsibility suggests that special abortion clinics in teaching hospitals are needed to provide education of doctors and students in how best to counsel women concerning unwanted pregnancies, to set standards for the Australian Capital Territory and to carry out research, particularly in the follow up of patients. 
At the centre of the abortion debate is the controversial 'right to life' of the foetus. But to confine one's thinking to this single absolutist principle is to ignore the many other rights inherent in the situation, such as the rights to health and welfare of the mother and her existing family, the rights to choose whether to bear children or not and the right of the child to be wanted. But the principle of 'right to life' must be established and not shirked in this debate. Those who accept without question the 'right to life' of the foetus must examine their consciences and answer for the desperate misery and hardship imposed upon pregnant women, the existence of illicit abortionists, the hypocrisy of a law that is different for rich and poor, and the confusion that faces doctors as to their medical rights. 
Those who oppose law reform must prove their charge that liberalisation undermines public and private morality and is the first step that leads to a total disrespect for life. And those who deny the rights of life to the foetus at any stage of its development without thorough examination and conviction do so at the peril of encouraging disrespect for life, legalised by the state, which is the most fundamental of al) rights and which is basic to all other rights. Translating principles into law against a background of public opinion is a most complex and responsible task. The principle of the right to life and its relation to other rights is the reason why there is so much emotion and controversy in the abortion debate. 
Life is a continuum that began well before man's consciousness and for the individual began at conception. It finishes for the individual at death. There is however a sea of controversy amongst theologians, the medical fraternity and the public as to when, during that continuum, the foetus should be granted rights. When should the law grant the right to life to the foetus? The validity of rights is only as strong as the powers that protect them. Rights can only be realised when they are exercised, and the state, once it grants rights, is obliged to use its full power to enforce and protect those rights regardless of sex, colour, race or creed, or even financial standing. 
To many the view that abortion if the death of a human being is untenable for many  reasons.  The law does not regard the foetus as a human being and bestow it with full rights of citizenship, otherwise the state would not condone the 'murders' that pass as abortions. The state cannot bestow the right to life unless it is prepared to enforce that right. It cannot grant rights cheaply. When prosecutions do not take place, when juries do not convict, and society does not condemn the taking of the life of the foetus then the state cannot guarantee the right to life to the foetus. Defence of the right of life of the foetus must rest on the conscience of every individual and I would join those who place that right high in their conscience. 
The church operates on the theological assumption that the human entity becomes a person at the moment of conception yet does not afford it funeral rites or baptism. The pastoral view is that the right to life exists at conception. Strongly religious or moral people do not need the force of the law to uphold their convictions, and in a pluralist society they do not have the right to impose their religion or morals on the rest of society by way of the law. At the same time the church believes in religious and moral freedom for others including even atheists. Followers of any church have not only the right but also an obligation to their beliefs to persuade others by reason and faith to share their view, but they cannot do this through the law. 
The position of the law was well expressed by Ronald Dworkin, Professor of Jurisprudence at Oxford University, when he said: 
The criminal law is a clumsy device of social regulation. It works passably well, and better than any alternative when the acts punished are universally condemned and plainly destructive. When the immorality is controversial however and the harm speculative, the punishment will depend upon the chance who tries and judges the accused, and chance will sometimes assign that role to self-styled moral crusaders. 
When that happens then the criminal law will divide rather than unite the nation and do more harm to the social fabric than the evil it tries to prevent. 
The legal process is a most inadequate tool to decide the legitimacy of abortions. It should be a moral-medical one, that is, a matter between a woman and her doctor. Then each citizen is able to act according to his or her conscience. Faced with a similar question of rights, including the right to life of the foetus, the United States Supreme Court laid down rules for all abortion laws. Abortion on request during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy, when carried out by a qualified medical practitioner, was to be legal. For the next 12 weeks or so conditions may be imposed to protect the woman, and after this abortion may be forbidden except to save the life of the woman. Our Bill is guided by these rules and the common law as they relate to the protection of the life of the woman and to the developing rights of the foetus as the gestion progresses. 
But what of public morality? A reverence of foetal life does not guarantee a reverence for all life. Hitler made abortion a capital offence yet he authorised the killing of 6 million Jews. Stalin repealed the abortion laws just prior to the purges he led. Convicted murderers are still hanged and wars still fought by governments who proscribe abortion. When there has been no comparable organised campaign against the atrocities committed in Vietnam, against capital punishment, against nuclear testing in the Pacific or against an infant mortality rate amongst Aborigines that is 17 times higher than for the general community, one can be excused for thinking that among those who now campaign so strongly against abortion law reform there are many who have a great feeling for foetal life but once it stops being a foetus their respect for human life stops well short of that concern. One would also be excused from thinking that extremists of both sides of the argument sadly lack compassion for all those involved in the matter of abortion. 
The State that can confer the right to life and honour that right without question, such as to the viable foetus, will also honour that right at all times. The obligation is such that the principle be enshrined in law and capital punishment repealed and euthanasia continued to be made illegal. For, once the right to life has been conferred, life should not be taken unless by consent or when it can be proven beyond doubt that the taking of life was essential to protect the equal rights of another. The principle of right to life should not be granted cheaply and unless the right life can be protected, its consistent application is the greatest legal protection against a government or a society developing a disrespect for all life. There is no credibility in the moral domino theory. 
I believe the Bill shows more understanding of the totality of the issue of abortion and its legality than any other comparable Bill. It provides a unique advice clause that ensures that every woman who requests an abortion is made fully aware of all the private and government family support programs available to her during and after her pregnancy, and of adoption facilities. This procedure will allow a woman a meaningful choice and help to ensure that abortion is truly a last resort. It will place the responsibility on the government to provide all clinical, medical and social and financial assistance possible to the woman so that she may bear her child whether that pregnancy was planned or not. No government should command a social or economic system that does nothing to prevent the need for abortions. 
The Bill ls an attempt to rationalise the law on abortion, eliminate the back-yard abortionist, reduce the number of abortions and recognise that an abortion is, first and foremost, a matter between a woman and her doctor. Perhaps John Stuart Mill best put the essence of our proposal when he said: 
Anyone who causes a life to come into being without the means to guarantee it normal expectations of happiness commits an offence against that being. 
This Bill aims to ensure that happiness. 
The Cities Commission Bill is probably one of the most important pieces of legislation to be introduced into this House. It is important for many reasons. Firstly, it is important because it will affect the quality of life of all people and not, as the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  just mentioned, only those in the cities. It will affect people in proposed regional settlement expansion areas, in the more densely populated inner areas of a city, in the expanding urban-rural fringes of Melbourne and Sydney and the existing country towns. It is certainly wrong to criticise this Bill because it would operate only in existing cities. Because of the crisis in the cities the Cities Commission is to have a role which embraces a solution to that crisis, that is, through the new regional areas in the country and in the cities. Secondly, the Bill is important because it unites rather than divides town and country. For too long we were governed, to use a euphemism, by the previous coalition Government which, although a coalition on the surface, certainly did more to divide town and country than to treat them as though they were of the one ilk. 
The Cities Commission will have an integrated view which combines the interests of town and country. The honourable member for Bennelong accused this Government of pandering to Labor voters in the cities, hoping to strengthen its position and support. But, rather than pandering to them, we have recognised our responsibility and will honour that overwhelming mandate which was given by the people in the outer urban fringe suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney. It is for this reason and because this Cities Commission Bill is so important that it has come up so early in this Parliament. This Government probably already has honoured more promises and stated intentions than was the case in the lifetime of the previous coalition Government. 
However, the Bill does one further thing - it underlines the need for co-operative federalism. The purposes of the Cities Commission Bill and the Commissioner's role cannot be achieved in isolation by remote control from Canberra or by any other such marionette exercise. They must be achieved through cooperation between the 3 levels of government - local, State and Federal. 
The criticism levelled at this legislation seems to be covered by only 2 points. Both the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  quibbled over the change of name. They felt that rather than examine the animal they would look at its title. The honourable member for Gwydir said that he would like to change the name of the Commission to 'Cities and Regional Development Commission' but later said, offhandedly, 'call it what you will'. I suggest to the honourable member for Gwydir that he remember the saying: 'A rose is a rose by any other name'. In other words, let us look at the substance and not the title. Perhaps the acid in the comment lies in the fact that our rose is much sweeter than the one planted by the previous Government in its dying days. The second quibble concerns the approach to land prices, but 1 fail to understand what the Opposition is putting forward because its approach to land price control seems to be one of confusion. It seems to be a most equivocal approach, as was shown by the right honourable member for Higgins and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke). 
The right honourable member for Higgins said that if there is to be a policy of land price control he would like to see acquisition by the State but not at a controlled price. He failed to convince me that he understood the difference between competitive acquisition and mandatory acquisition, or that he knew what he meant by land price control. Amongst this confusion we were offered some rationality by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who outlined the fundamental principle of land price Stabilisation and control when he said that nobody is entitled to make a profit from the sale of land resulting from an increase in value that that person has not put into the land himself. Then he summarises more briefly by saying that no profit should be made out of an unearned increment in the value of land. In other words he quite rightly outlines the difference between genuine ownership of land and speculation. He outlines the difference between development, which is the improvement to land, and speculation, which is profit made on turnover. I think the most neglected aspect of the role of the proposed Cities Commission is that it rests upon the principle of the control of land prices. The whole process of urban and regional development involves location and therefore land value and use as a key element. 
I think that we should look even closer at land prices. When we look at the price of Sydney land in 1968 we find that a medium priced block cost about $5,150. But by 1971 the price has increased by 65 per cent to $8,500. In Melbourne the escalation in prices was not so great but the cost of an average block had risen from $4,000 in 1968 to $5,100 in 1971. In the outer surburban areas of Melbourne the price is increasing at a far greater rate. Between 1971 and 1973 in Melbourne the average price rose to $5,750 a block, which is an increase of 12.7 per cent. Over the time which I have mentioned, that is from 1968 to 1973, the price has risen 43.75 per cent. Yet clearly Melbourne is better off than Sydney. The crisis point has not been reached in Melbourne although speculation is beginning to run riot. A recent report made in my electorate by the Knox City Council seems to indicate that the escalation of land prices over the last 12 months has suddenly got completely out of hand. We find that over the last 12 months there has been an increase of over 62 per cent in the average price of a suburban block in the outer eastern suburban areas of Melbourne. The main reason for this is the uncontrolled expansion in the population of Melbourne. 
The State and Federal governments have the task of controlling the growth of the 2 large metropolises or megalopolises of Australia, namely Sydney and Melbourne. This can be done only by realising that, however much they siphon off the increase in population to planned regional areas, there will be still an increase in population in Melbourne and Sydney proper. Therefore a two-pronged attack is needed and is to be levelled by the Cities Commission. For instance, if we were to stop the growth of Melbourne we would need to build the equivalent of 15 Canberras in Victoria. This is a gigantic task. Already - mistakenly in my view - the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works plans to cater for a population of 4.7 million by 1998 which is almost the turn of the century. At present Melbourne has a population of 2.46 million with a growth rate of about 50,000 a year. Honourable members can see that the task ahead is not simple. The underlying principle of success of any task in this 2-pronged attack must be land price stabilisation because unless this is tackled it will undermine urban living in the present cities and detract from living in the regional centres. 
We were given a mandate to do something about the position. We will do something about it. But if we examine the reasons why the price of land is increasing we find it is because there is interference with the supply and demand of land. As I mentioned, the City of Knox in its exposure of the increased price of land has complained of the lack of action by the previous Federal Government and the State Government. It should be greatly comforted by this proposed legislation. It also warned in its report that if the escalation of land prices is not stemmed, the effects will be to add costs to the home buyer. I mentioned that there had been a 62.6 per cent increase in land costs. If this were translated into increased savings for the average family man, intent upon providing the security of a home for his family, it would mean that he would have to increase his earnings by $48 a week which, when one considers the average wage of about $95 to $98, would make it an impossible task to clothe, feed and house his family. When the increase in housing costs is added to that, the amount translated into increased savings is almost an incredible $80 a week to enable the family man to purchase land and establish a home in these outer eastern suburbs. But, of course, from the local government's point of view, a curtailment of building and of home and land ownership means a curtailment of other development such as commercial and industrial development and if local government did not receive rate revenue - the greatest source of its revenue at the moment - it would not be able to provide the social amenities and have the social development that should go hand in hand with this other development. 
Why are land prices rising? Supply obviously does not meet demand. This is something which the proposed Cities. Commission will have to examine when it studies the new regional areas or potential growth centres. When it looks at the strategies of the present development and at other particular regions, it would be wrong for the Cities Commission to ignore these very important pressures in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne. Supply does not meet demand because it is not a simple matter of the price being determined by the interplay of the market forces of supply and demand. It is because most of the land out there is bought on vendors' terms. In fact, 95 per cent of the land in that area is purchased on vendors' terms, which means that finance cannot be arranged for home establishment until 3 or 4 years have gone by, when the purchaser has paid out the total price of his land and can then lay claim to the title. This delay means lack of development. 
The other reason for demand exceeding supply is the increase in the package leal system employed by builders who, because of the parcel or the home-land unit system of selling , can earn for themselves an extra premium of $3,000. I suppose anyone with a capitalist bent to his nature, stimulated by our capitalist system, would say that if he could sell a block and a house together for $3,000 more than he would receive if they were sold separately, he would be reluctant  to  sell only the land. This is the second reason why land supply has not kept up with tha demand. Thirdly, the role of the investors who can avoid the increased charges which they have to face and, as time increases, whose capital gains escape taxation, is a factor in the short supply of land. They find it more than profitable to outstrip the rate of interest by the rate of inflation on the value of their land. 
With these 3 root causes, the supply of land under the normal supply and demand market forces has been reduced by 50 per cent. But we find that demand has increased for perhaps 2 main reasons. The first reason is the quite rightly implemented policies for increased availability of home loans whereby, with greater access to home loans, a prospective buyer can face up to purchasing land whereas before he could not. In fact, it pays him to convert any savings or loans into assets, given the present rate of inflation, as long as it is greater than the rate of interest. With rising and uncontrolled rentals for rented accommodation there is great pressure on prospective home owners to move into their own landhome units. Unless the housing commissions of the various States can change their policies to accord with this Government's proposed housing agreements, this pressure will continue. So the solutions to rising prices ais complex because they affect supply and demand. They could be brought about by rezoning, which really is outside the nature of the Cities Commission, although it doss underline the need for co-operation between all levels of government in attitudes to rezoning rather than the various levels of local authorities and local governments having conflicting and competing attitudes towards rezoning. 
The imposition of land taxes and other taxes and incentives which would increase either the turnover of land to home buyers or at least stem speculation also is outside the direct control of the Cities Commission. But a Cities Commission has one other role which it could expand, and this depends upon the principles which I have mentioned, namely, StateFederal co-operation and price stabilisation through establishing State lands commissions Such commissions could buy substantial tracts, broad acres, of land in these areas, fuily service the blocks and lease them so that the rare commodity of land would escape the manufactured and speculative supply-demand interforces and drive them away from the private sector which has shown little respect for development but much respect for speculation. 
I conclude by reminding the House that the solution to this much neglected aspect and principle of development of land lies fairly and squarely on a workable and feasible land price stabilisation scheme. If it does not, prices will inflate even further to undermine the whole process of the Cities Commission, and development in the true sense of the world will be eroded by exploitation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
It is good to hear the contributions from members of the Australian Country Party this evening. I was wondering why they jump to their feet during the adjournment debate and I suddenly recalled, of course, that soon we will hear of the marriage - whether it is shotgun or unhappy, I do not know - of the Australian Country Party and the Democratic Labor 
Party to form a united front across the nation. It would seem that the honourable members for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  and Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  are intent to make a contribution that will mark them down as safe for re-endorsement by their king maker,  Senator Gair,  when they come up for reelection. 
Having made that aside, I should like to refer to the matter on which I originally rose to speak tonight. I rise to express :ny concern about a matter that vitally affects my electorate of La Trobe - a matter that exemplifies the undermining influences that operate to the detriment of co-operative federalism. Honourable members may be aware that the electorate of La Trobe is an area largely composed of the outer eastern suburbs of the rural fringe of Melbourne. Rapid expansion of the population in areas like Boronia, Croydon, Montrose and Scoresby and the foothills of the Dandenong Ranges has meant that the demand for services such as those provided by local government, community services and drainage, as well as health services has greatly outstripped the supply. Nowhere is the demand greater than the supply than in the area of educational services. In an attempt at least to house the explosion of primary and secondary students at the schools the State Liberal Government has adopted a policy of providing portable classrooms. This t has done rather than opt for a crash program to provide permanent buildings, ls it any wonder that amongst teachers the policy is described as 'portable madness'. 
Under the systems and techniques used by the present Administration in Victoria, the present timing of construction for a school in my area or any area is 3 to 5 years. We would halve this if we were to allow the regional directorates to be set up and regional directorates to undertake a crash program utilising local knowledge and resources. With a little more activity at local level and a little more knowledge of the surrounding area in the eastern suburbs, 1 believe that, rather than portable madness, we could have a planned program of permanent buildings. 
Many schools are operating with short staffs, with the consequence that school curricula are severely curtailed and a full option of subjects is not offered to children in some schools. In other schools, subjects are ter minated or delayed in mid-term because teacher replacements cannot be obtained and teacher timetables become a nightmare to the principals. The position is worsened when we realise that the State Government has spent only about 5500,000 of the Commonwealth grant of S3m for libraries in the last period of allocation. Many schools are still without a library which is essential and central to the schools' studies and activities. Suddenly, the money now is available for strategic spending. But what of the education or lack of it over these years while the money was being salted away? 
With such disregard exhibited by the State Libera] Government towards education, the morale of the teaching staff is low and I receive countless letters from parents complaining of the interruptions to their children's education. They are anxious about the future of their children and the lack of education that they receive, despite the determined and dedicated teaching staff. This is not a recent picture. It is a story that has been repeated for years, particularly in the expanding outer areas of Melbourne. As part of the answer to this concern and as the new member for La Trobe, elected as part of the new Labor Government, I issued a questionnaire in February of this year to principals of all schools in the electorate, private and government, primary and secondary, that cover the area south of Lilydale. This questionnaire was a needs survey that sought details which I could incorporate into a submission to the Schools Commission in order to improve the state of education in this area. Each questionnaire was accompanied by a letter that explained the purpose of the survey. And here is the rub. On 30th March the State Liberal member for Scoresby,  Mr Geoff  Hayes, MLA, wrote to the principals discouraging replies to the survey and charging me with committing a breach of parliamentary privilege in that I used House of Representatives note paper to correspond with the principals. It should be noted that the State member for Scoresby wrote his letter of discouragement on State parliamentary note paper. 
The role of the Commonwealth in financing education in Australia is becoming more important every day. This Parliament and this Government are becoming more involved in providing education for young children at a standard higher than ever before. In honouring the promises which were rewarded so overwhelmingly by a mandate from the people - one was for the establishment of a Schools Commission to apportion Federal funds on the basis of need1 - it was obligatory on me to do what I could for the electorate, working within the scope of the Schools Commission and on the principle of open government. The needs survey I conducted in the electorate met these demands. Who would spend money without knowing the needs and priorities for spending that money? I venture to suggest that noone but a businessman bent on self-destruction would do so. 
Far from there being a breach of parliamentary privilege on my part, for nothing could be further from the truth, my action was a fulfilment at the local level of my parliamentary duty. But, I submit that the State Liberal member for Scoresby, in writing to the principals of the schools involved with the intention of discouraging replies to the needs survey has deliberately interfered with the work of a Federal parliamentarian in carrying out his duties. I draw the attention of honourable members to this matter so that they may be prepared for any similar interference in their work. This is not an example of a State member exerting or protecting his State's rights. It is an example of an attempt to frustrate the co-operative spirit that must exist between the 3 levels of government - tocal, State and Federal - if the problems of education and other community services are to be overcome. 
I also submit that, in using parliamentary note paper to interfere with and frustrate the duties of a Federal member, the State Liberal member for Scoresby has laid himself open to a charge of breach of parliamentary privilege. The State member's charge against me cannot be sustained but is exposed for what it is - a political action designed to discredit me as the Labor Federal representative for La Trobe and to enhance his own electoral prospects at the Victorian State election to be held this Saturday. I do not believe that the people will be fooled. The question at issue is the future of co-operative federalism. I would like to place on public record that whoever wins the State electorates covered by my electorate will receive my full co-operation in all. those activities and policies that are in the public interest. Parliamentarians, State and Federal, cannot jeopardise the public welfare by undermining each other's efforts and duties for cheap political gain. They must co-operate, especially in those areas where the people have given such an overwhelming mandate to the Federal Government as was given to this Government in the field of education. I believe that it is not too much to expect a reciprocal offer from the State members, whoever they might be after Saturday, to the offer I have reiterated tonight. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development been drawn to a report in today's Press of statements made separately by the GovernorGeneral and by the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia in which they criticise the centralisation of offices and industry in inner city areas? According to this report, the Governor-General suggested that the practice was uneconomic and inefficient, and that offices and the office staff should be decentralised. Can the Minister give this House an indication as to how this Government will overcome the difficulties in moving industries, particularly those in the tertiary sector, away from the present nodes of concentration and how it will better balance residential, industrial and servicing industries in the developing areas of existing cities and new growth centres? 
The election of the present Federal Government marked a turning point in the fortunes of local government. Previous governments held the view that local governments are the exclusive constitutional responsibility of the States and that the States should include local requirements in their overall requests for Commonwealth financial assistance. This Government has changed that policy to recognise the needs of local government and its role in a 3-tier system of government. In his policy speech the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  promised that his Government would 'give local government full access to the Loan Council and the Commonwealth Grants Commission', partly because 'the inequalities between regions must be attacked by the national Governnent*. This approach is logical given that the national Government is already committed to removing inequalities among the States; inequalities within the States are equally worthy of attention. This Act continues the Grant Commission's role in respect of applications by the States for special grants but now the principle of equalising grants will be extended to the local government bodies. This Bill recognises the inadequacy of locally derived revenue in meeting the expanding responsibilities of local government and the need for equalising the burden of individual local government bodies beset by unique problems in raising revenue. 
The existing Grants Commission is a most suitable quasi-judicial body that can investigate needs and resources and make recommendations on the level of financial grants that should be made by the Commonwealth to local government bodies through the States. Some speakers in this debate have suggested that some form of taxation revenue should be re-imbursed to the States for this purpose and superficially it could be argued that local government bodies should receive Commonwealth assistance on the basis of per capita payments. However this would overlook the varying capacities of local government bodies to raise their own revenue. Certain demographic factors place special burdens on some local government bodies. For example, the inner areas of our larger cities with an almost static population growth do not enjoy a natural increase in rate revenue, from a growing number of rate payers, but have entered a phase characterised by diseconomies of congestion, that is, the costs of providing local services rise more than proportionally to the increase in population. Suburbs on the fringes of the cities, such as Waverley, Knox and Ringwood on the fringe of Melbourne, however, enjoy an expanding population with a corresponding expansion of revenue. This would mean little difficulty except that certain local government areas may face special difficulties as a result of an influx of migrants or young families who place greater demands on community services than do older people because the extra people outnumber the extra ratepayers in any such increase. Rural councils, such as Upper Yarra and Healesville, both about 40 miles from Melbourne, suffer from the drift or population to urban areas so that their revenue is stable or declining. Furthermore, they face the odious task of increasing rates on farming property unless their income can be supplemented from other sources. 
There is a wide discrepancy in the quality and quantity of services afforded between the western and eastern suburbs of Melbourne. Comparatively, the western suburbs are deprived in that they lack a great number of community services such as roads, libraries, child care centres, recreational centres and social welfare services. These suburbs have suffered because the local councils have been forced to rely largely on revenue from rates which are low for basically 3 reasons. Firstly, large areas of land held by Commonwealth and State governments are nonrateable secondly, most of the residents are in the low income bracket and own correspondingly lower value properties - there is a limit to the amount of rates that can be applied - and thirdly, our regressive system of taxation deductions aids those on higher incomes so that indirectly the Commonwealth Government is providing more assistance to the more affluent communities. The plans of State authorities, such as the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, have meant rezoning of land that cannot deliver income to local councils. The local government bodies that take in the Dandenong Ranges such as Lilydale, Sherbrooke and Berwick, for instance, suffer because large areas are required for conservation and recreation and cannot be rated. 
As the responsibilities for welfare work fall more heavily on the shoulders of local government, so the equity of rate collection becomes more distorted. The benefit principle of taxation is more appropriate for most local government services but is most inequitable for social welfare services which should be provided from community revenue. It is for these reasons, among others, that per capita payments would not be suitable as a basis for determining grants from the Commonwealth. But the grants recommended by the Commonwealth Grants Commission would he p to equalise the facilities available in richer and poorer, or highly or sparsely populated, local government areas and would provide a financial topping up for the expanding ro'e of local government into the non-traditional social welfare sphere. 
There are special qualifications, however, that recognise the difficulties in extending the operation of the Grants Commission to local governments. If the Commonwealth Government had attempted to impose regional groupings it could not expect full cooperation from bodies each separately constituted and with differing financial problems and demographic qualities. Those best qualified to assess the ideal groupings will carry out the task. Approval of regional organisations will be carried out in full consultation with the States and should be initiated by the local government bodies themselves. In some instances, one local government body may constitute a region or possess regional characteristics in itself. The Bill is given flexibility by permitting the relevant Minister to recognise a single local government body as an applicant for assistance. Furthermore, the charge of centralism is lessened as such assistance as is granted will be in the form of section 96 grants paid to the States and the applicants must inform the appropriate State Minister of the details of the application. 
The system of regions has been adopted to make the system workable and to reduce the 900 or so local government bodies to a manageable number for the Commission to process. The current position was put clearly by  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell of the New South Wales Land and Valuation Court when he stressed that there are too many local authorities with areas and responsibilities resulting from historical accident rather than conscious planning or economic appropriations. It would be foolish for the Grants Commission to compound the difficulties. It is necessary that the local government bodies recognise the needs of local government in a wider integrated context rather than simple parochial terms. This objective could well be realised as many local councils already co-operate on a regional basis for many services such as regional libraries, social welfare and fire protection. The Government realises that it will have to recognise the existing organisational structure of local government but this must not preclude co-operation between local councils or prevent the Minister for Urban and Regional Development developing regional groupings to facilitate the workings of the Commission. Of course, how the Commission goes about its business is largely up to it and the local councils in such matters as investigations, studies and recommendations for grants to the regions or within a region. 
The Act attempts to avoid the charge that lazy local governments - those which have not fully used local sources of revenue - will be favoured over those which by dint of hard work and responsibility have obtained the revenue necessary to provide essential community services. Grants will be made only after assessing the effort local government bodies have exerted in meeting their own financial commitments. The Act provides that local government bodies, whether they be regional or individual applicants, must demonstrate a reasonable effort to finance their affairs. This provision has an inbuilt advantage for local government. The rating system, until recently, provided an adequate and appropriate method of finance which has allowed them to preserve their financial autonomy and independence. At the same time as applying for Commonwealth grants, local government bodies should be seeking ways to preserve their existing strengths and maintain their independent function. I believe that local government bodies will be anxious to preserve their autonomy and will welcome the provision that they must demonstrate their reasonable efforts regarding finance. They will also welcome the information that these grants will in no way be a substitute for the assistance normally provided by State governments for single purpose or specific developmental projects such as those for roads, aged pensioner homes, home care services, senior citizens centres or tourism. 
Local government bodies can probably expect similar treatment by the Grants Com mission in assessing their needs as that now extended by the Commission to the States in assessing their needs. Differentials in the fiscal capacities of local government bodies can be partially or wholly offset by the pattern of distribution of Commonwealth financial assistance to the States for local government purposes and the Commission takes this into account in assessing the need for a special grant by treating the bodies as if they had not received such State allocations. 
The underlying basic proposition of this Bill is that the Australian Government no longer intends to turn its back on the financial problems of local government. This Government recognises that the taxpayer and the ratepayer are largely one and the same. This Government has taken the initiative and acted to increase the finances of local government which are inadequate for their expanding role in providing a quality of life for our citizens. The Government has already announced its intention of becoming involved in single specific purpose works such as sewerage, land and transport. It is now to become involved in helping local government to overcome the backlog of unmade streets and inadequate social services. It has now accepted the challenge of a truly national government and that is to ensure that no person will be jeopardised regarding his quality of life because of. where he lives. Once it was good enough to consider differences between States; now it is necessary to consider the differences between local government areas. I commend the Bill to this national Parliament. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration. Has action been taken to appoint the long discussed and long prom ised multi-lingual welfare officers to assist migrant integration and settlement? If not, why not, in view of the urgent and serious problems confronting new settlers, particularly in overcrowded inner city areas? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many prescriptions are written by registered, qualified dentists for antibiotics and analgesics as part of pre-operative and post-operative dental treatment. 
What would be the cost to the Government if these prescriptions were available as pharmaceutical benefit items when written by these dentists. 
What savings would be made to private patients if dentists were allowed to prescribe analgesics and antibiotics on the pharmaceutical benefits listing, considering that medical consultations attracting Government subsidy are frequently undertaken solely at the request of a dentist to obtain pharmaceutical benefits. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many pensioners are eligible for supplementary assistance. 
How many of them claim that supplementary assistance. 
What is the annual cost to the Government of providing this supplementary assistance. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
How many pensioners are ineligible for supplementary assistance by virtue of their paying rates on their own property, 
What would be the annual cost to the Government if supplementary assistance was extended to those pensioners who pay rates on their own properties. 
Has the Government considered extending supplementary assistance to rate-paying pensioners (a) with a means test and (b) without a means test. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
How many (a) industries, (b) businesses and 
factories in (i) each State and (ii) Australia are operated on (a) a workers' co-operative basis, (b)  a  workers' participation basis and (c) a workers' profit sharing basis. 
How many workers are involved in aggregate in each of the classifications in part (1). 
How much revenue or income is received by each classification as compared with the corresponding aggregate income for all corresponding enterprises. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Has the Government considered ways to implement workers' co-operatives and workers' participation in management or profits so as to assist and encourage the working people of Australia to participate more equitably in the profits of industry as well as to reduce industrial unrest. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the different classifications of people eligible for sales tax exemption in respect of motor vehicles under either section 135 or 135a of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. 
How many individuals suffering the handicap of the loss of one leg or both legs due to (a) warservice injury and (b) civilian injury are eligible under these classifications. 
How many individuals suffering the handicap of blindness due to (a) injury incurred as a result of service in the Armed Forces and (b) non-service injury are eligible under these classifications. 
What is the loss to revenue under this exemption in respect of each category in parts (2) and (3). and how many of those eligible contributed to the loss of revenue under these classifications. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development has been reported in today's newspapers as saying that he does not favour inner-city freeways in Melbourne or Sydney and that roads for the motor car will be constructed on the terms of the Australian Government. I ask him: Does this mean that the Australian Government will give money to the States for road construction only on the condition that none is spent on inner-suburban freeways? 
I rise to support the motion of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that a joint committee on the parliamentary committee system be established. As the Leader of the House has said, this is an unusual motion. We are setting up a committee to inquire into committees. But it is a worthy move for its objectives rather than being delaying tactics for reform are indeed to initiate reform. There are several realities the conjunction of which have precipitated this motion. Firstly, in this Parliament we have 14 committees in the House of Representatives and 24 committees in the Senate. Committees are an essential part of our parliamentary system as they are in other Parliaments around the world. 
I think it is right at this time to draw the attention of the House to one problem that will arise, that is in the area of matters relating to parliamentary privilege enjoyed by this House and the committees. The Bar Council warns us that a parliamentary committee in the present state of the law may decide to investigate any particular event, person, transaction or organisation in as much detail and with as much publicity as the committee thinks fit, and that in such a case witnesses are placed entirely at the mercy of the committees without redress of any kind should a committee exceed its powers either constitutionally or under the reference from the particular House and without any of the elementary protection granted to the citizen in court proceedings. There is, in the Council's view, a serious question of whether parliamentary committees should be concerned to inquire into matters which raise issues of civil or criminal liability of citizens. The United States Senate committees under  Senator McCarthy  remain fresh in everybody's minds. There is no place, the Council warns, for such excesses in Australian public life. 
So this is an area which I think should bc considered particularly by the proposed committee. It is imperative that the Parliament enact legislation under section 49 of the Constitution following the inquiry to determine precisely what are the powers, privileges and immunities of the House and of its members and committees. One might question the purpose of one of the committees in the other House from a political point of view. 1 am referring, of course, to the Senate Select Committee on the Civil Rights of Migrant Australians where the excesses of some members of that Committee have been used for political gain so that the purpose of the inquiry and of the establishment of the committee was reversed and, due to disclosures at any time, the fortunes of particular participants varied. But secondly, at the same time, the Senate has given us a model to follow. The revitalisation that has taken place in the Senate, which has turned from being a rubber stamp to a House of review and now to one of examination, is perhaps a mood that this House could follow. In fact, the metamorphosis of the work of that House moved one political writer in the 'Australian' of 23 
March 1970 to say 'that all' - and I assume that he was referring to senators - 'would subscribe to the theory that the Senate has already surpassed the House of Representatives as the most important functional part of the legislature*. One could make out a very respectable argument along those lines. That argument is one that will have to be examined by this joint committee. 
Thirdly, one can imagine the interest that can arise when issues perhaps cut across party lines or at least, because of the committee system, lower the defences of party lines. Also, we need to consider the information and advice that can be given by outsiders who are involved in an advisory capacity. One only has to think back to the debate in this House on the Medical Practices Clarification Bill to realise the amount of interest that could be engendered in the House and the debates if more latitude and freedom were given during the discussion period. 
The scene is one of many committees in this House vieing with each other for time and members and vieing with the Parliament itself for time and members. The fault could lie in their numbers, their organisation or their function. It is time for review so that we can determine if the committee system can be enlarged and used to advantage in this Parliament. The likelihood and desirability has been presupposed, as is evident in the wording of the first paragraph of this motion. But we must through the committee of inquiry determine how a balanced system can be brought about and how the committee system can be incorporated into the procedures of Parliament. 
Reform of Parliament has two aspects - reform for the advantage of the government and reform for the improvement of the parliamentary system as a whole. Studies overseas through the establishment of committees such as the one we are discussing have led to improvements in committee systems. The report of an all-party Special Committee on Procedure in the Canadian House of Commons in 1968 recommended major reforms to the timetabling of Parliament's business, lt was observed that this would lead to a reduction in the time spent on certain debates, lt was also found that the major disagreement in the Special Committee on Procedure came on how Parliament's time should be controlled, especially when parties cannot agree amongst themselves on the time to be allotted to the different stages of various Bills. It is obvious that this is another area that will have to be examined to see whether the committee system will work in this Parliament. The basis for the opposition found by the Canadian Committee was that the rules adopted would have given the Government not only the power to push its legislative program through the House, but also the power to establish the time spent on each item of business coming before the House. This was unacceptable to the Opposition because one of the most important powers of the Opposition is to choose what resources of time and manpower it wants to devote to each parliamentary battle. This particular area of disagreement must be resolved if the committee system is to be successful 
The second type of reform to which I referred - improvement of the parliamentary system as a whole - requires some major changes. The Canadian Committee reported that the standing committees of Parliament have been given much greater responsibilities under the proposed new rules. They have been made smaller and have been established to cover the activities of government on a functional basis. They will examine virtually all Bills and estimates in detail but they remain understaffed, often highly partisan, indifferently chaired and uncertain of their powers or functions. Each backbencher belongs to two or three committees whose meetings often conflict. The role of committees is still not clear - whether they are to be miniature chambers like the British standing committees, impartial critics like the British select committees or powerful influences on the legislative process like American congressional committees. The publication to which I am referring concludes by saying that perhaps only practice and many false starts will establish the role of the committees. 
We hope that we can avoid those false starts. We can improve on the practices by comparing what has taken place in the development of the committee system in overseas parliaments. Many backbenchers have come into this House disillusioned as they see that they are not incorporated in the power centres and the decision making to a great degree. We might ask: What part do backbenchers play in determining the details of Bills once they have been introduced into the House? The short answer is that the committee stage has become a solemn farce. The debate in the Committee of the Whole tends to become a repetition of the debate at the second reading stage, selected clauses simply being used as pegs on which to hang political arguments already canvassed, and directed in any event to the electorate rather than to improvement of the Bill. That is another area for examination by the Committee. 
One might consider during debate whether it is fantasy, farce or fact. Even an Edmund Burke would find it difficult to sway the Mouse on 99 per cent of the Bills introduced into this Parliament, but honourable members should remember that Edmund Burke was in Parliament long before the party system matured in the United Kingdom and, of course, in Australia. The comments I have just made should be considered in the context of the party system and the desirable role of the parties in concentrating policy to a point where it can be understood, voted upon at elections and presented under the constitutional understanding of responsible and executive government. Initiatives are generally in the form of private members' Bills. Members can also speak during the adjournment and grievance debates. 
We need to see greater involvement of the backbencher but opportunities under the Standing Orders open to backbenchers are usually times for individual speechmaking - no replies, no motion and no vote. Thus in 1971 a backbencher was able to claim that during his 2 years in Parliament there had been no full scale debate on urban development, pollution, conservation, education, road safety, transport, social services, the rural crisis, tariffs or immigration. All those subjects had been mentioned in speeches and at question time but had not been truly debated. I personally believe that because of the democratic nature of my Party that objection could be well and truly met on this side of the House. I also think it is a comment that is truly applicable to the previous Government. However, an examination can be made, given the opportunity of the inquiry into the committee system, to involve backbenchers even further. There are dangers, as the Canadian system has demonstrated. I wish to quote a comment made on 4 July 1969, an important date for Canada's neighbours, in the Canadian 'Financial Post'. It stated: 
As Parliament ground towards its summer recess the grunts and groans of backbench MPs from all parties overloaded with work under the new committee system echoed to high heaven. Gone forever are the days when government backbenchers had little to do. As one Government member, Marcel Lambert, Vice President of the powerful Procedures Committee, and former Speaker of the House said: 'The system is overworked and we are overworked. It is government by exhaustion.' 
That is something which the new committee of inquiry will have to avoid by drawing up guidelines. One possible method is to alter the timetable of Parliament. Perhaps we could meet for 2 weeks and adjourn for one week, the second week to be devoted to committee work only so that members of Parliament could catch up. Another comment made by the Canadian committee of inquiry was that with so many committees operating  -  24 at that stage - there was difficulty in getting a quorum in the House, creating a bad situation. The committee said that one answer was to devote two or three days a week to committee work only. In this Parliament we could make it one or two days a week for committee work only while the House was adjourned, or a reduction could be made in quorum requirements. 
There are several questions still to be answered. One problem is that there will not be enough members to man the committees. I have mentioned the problems caused by an overloaded committee system in Canada. We must also examine the role of pairs in this House, quorums, Standing Orders, and the printing of procedures of committees, if necessary with a new printing press of a more advanced offset type. We must examine how the committees are to be functional and of value to the 'House. We would not like them to be interrupted by quorum bells, division bells and so on; yet this House must remain the supreme body. This is an area which will have to be examined. Its procedures will have to be rationalised and a conclusion reached. 
A committee has often been described as the body that set out to design a horse and ended up with a camel. The late Ben Chifley when Prime Minister once said that the ideal size of a committee is three with two away sick. I am not too concerned about the formation of the committee of inquiry. That has been gone into in detail. I have concentrated on the work to be performed by the committee. I recommend the motion to the House. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is he aware that as late as 12 August this year there was available, among other travel brochures at the Trans-Australia Airlines booking office at the Alice Springs terminal, a South African Airways travel brochure offering tours of South Africa and Rhodesia? As tourism is a form of trade, can he inform the House whether this display contravenes the sanctions of the United Nations Security Council agreed to by Australia? If so, what measures will be taken to ensure that such literature is not available in future? 
I remind the Minister for Health that the pharmacy ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory has been changed so that it now allows any preventive of contraception, other than those contraceptives requiring a prescription, to be sold by any person instead of only by pharmacists as formerly. I ask: What assurance can the Minister give to the House that the advice on techniques of usage provided by the professional pharmacist will still be available to purchasers? 
Firstly I would like to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on handing down the first Labor 
Budget for 23 years. It was a reform Budget. It was a commonsense Budget. It was an honest Budget. It was a reform Budget because it was framed as part of our overall program to achieve what we had promised to the electorate. This Budget demonstrates that we are a Government that keeps its promises for we have tackled that program on a broad front. Spending on education is up 92 per cent on last year and continues to be the fastest growing component of the Budget. The means test for pensioners has been removed for those over 75 years of age as the first step to abolishing the means test totally, and pensions have been increased by S3 during our first year of office. Also SI 36m is provided for our cities initiatives in 1973-74. Even so, this and other expenditure marks only the beginning. 
It is a commonsense Budget because it is financed by a reallocation of moneys within the public sector and by a reallocation of moneys from the speculative and profiteering area of the private sector to the community sector. The Government has not only achieved its aims; it has also managed a deflationary impact. We have answered our critics who for years raised the bogy: 'Where is the money coming from?' It is an honest Budget because it does not pretend to do what it cannot do, that is, control inflation by itself. This Budget cannot be seen and judged in isolation from other fiscal and monetary measures taken by this Government or foreshadowed by the Treasurer. Nor can it be seen in isolation from the promises and aspirations of the Government. To criticise this Budget in narrow terms of inflation control is to be myopic in the range of understanding that is required on the economy as a whole and inflation in particular. Yet this is the fault of the Opposition which talks of the Government's inflationary gap only to display its own credibility gap of economic understanding. 
Let us examine the present rate of inflation and what has caused it. Inflation is not new to the Opposition. In 1949 the Opposition won government on the promise to put value back into the pound only to lift the rate of inflation from 8.4 per cent to 13.6 per cent in its first year and to a record high, never since equalled, of 22.5 per cent within a further year. Now, with economic gymnastics that leave the experts gasping, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  tells us that he left the country with an inflationary rate of only 4.8 per cent whereas it is now running at 13.2 per cent. He has arrived at these dishonest figures by simply multiplying the artificially low December quarter increase in the consumer price index by four and presenting it as a final figure. Similarly, he has multiplied by four the exceptionally high June quarter increase in the consumer price index to arrive at 13.2 per cent. The Opposition has conveniently ignored that these quarters are unrepresentative for evaluation of the Government's management of the economy. Until this Budget was presented the economy had been operating in an environment largely determined by the previous Government. The rises in the consumer prize index particularly in the first quarter are the lagged results of their Budget last year. Just as surely ar the high unemployment level of a year ago was the result of their stop-go Budget of 1971-72, so this flationary boom was largely caused by an irresponsible, vote designed, expansionary Budget of 1972-73. They failed to catch votes but they did bring hardship down on those on low and fixed incomes. 
Inflation is not unique to Australia. It is common to most comparable industrialised countries, be they communist, capitalist, socialist or fascist. They are all struggling to contain it. Inflation is a little more complex than the Opposition would like us to believe and has some of its roots in events beyond the control of even this Government. Seasonal food prices are a case in point. Meat prices rose by 11 per cent during the June quarter propelled by export demand. Winter clothing rose by 11.1 per cent - another seasonal factor reflecting the surge in wool prices on the world market. Prices have also risen as manufacturers raised their prices and their profits before they had to justify price increases to the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
The procrastination of the Opposition, its fear of planning in the long term and its sychophantry to profits have been the greatest of inflationary forces and the trade mark of its economic mismanagement. Remember the words of the former Treasurer when unemployment was at its highest for more than a decade: 'We have achieved what we set out to do'. They certainly increased the rate of unemployment but the rate of inflation actually rose. The previous Government was mesmerised by the economic model of the Philips curve which in a nutshell trades off unemployment against inflation. The fact that the rate of inflation increased even though the rate of unemployment soared showed that forces other than wage increases have been a significant cause of Australia's inflation in recent years as well as excess demand in times of full employment. The Labor Government will never increase unemployment to curb inflation. The price is too great and those who suffer most are those least able to bear that price. We question the application of the Philips curve model not only socially but also on economic grounds as it depends upon cost push factors being the major inflationary force. Even the Leader of the Opposition now recognises this. It is unfortunate for this country that the same honourable member, when Treasurer, had not been introduced to the Swan economic model which introduces the exchange rate as another variable. The pressures from his coalition partner robbed him of altering the exchange rate that urgently needed revaluation, so he was left with the unemployment trade-off. 
In December last year we acted to appreciate the Australian dollar, thereby restraining price increases through increased imports without affecting the volume of exports or increasing unemployment. We have found it necessary to upvalue a further 5 per cent in face of a buoyant economy and to reduce excess liquidity. The Leader of the Opposition exposes his ignorance on what is meant by demand. He is concerned with the distribution of demand rather than aggregate demand which is the sum of private and community demand, which is more important in the macro-economic sense. The Leader of the Opposition would like to cut demand. Where would the Opposition like to curb community or public demand? Would it like pensioners to pull in their belts rather than pull in an extra $3 a week this year? Would it like to downgrade education? Do members of the Opposition not realise that they partly lost the last election because they failed to spend extra money on education on a needs basis to close the gap between the poor and the rich schools? They are devoid of suggestions because they cannot cut public expenditure. They are enjoying the luxury of opposition with irresponsible statements. 
The Leader of the Opposition also has overlooked the fact that increases in necessary community spending have been financed largely by an increase in government revenue from a taxation schedule his Government established and by the closing down of uneco nomic subsidies and concessions and from a reallocation of spending priorities. This Budget can be described only as mildly deflationary, as the overall Budget deficit has decreased by $22m. Yet the Leader of the Opposition, through a false equation, attempts to have us believe that this is inflationary. He is the only person I have heard make such a claim. The falsity of his equation is exposed when it is realised that he has placed total increases in expenditure in money terms on one side and only new sources of revenue on the other. He has ignored increases in revenue in money terms from the present taxation schedule. The facts can be found at the bottom of page 2 of statement 1 attached to the Treasurer's Budget speech. A better guide to the full thrust of any deflationary impact is to be found not in the absolute deficit but in the change in deficit over the previous Budget. Our change in deficit is $53m, whereas his inflationary Budget was a change to a surplus of $62Cm. 
I think it is only right to say a few words on prices and incomes policies. In 1969  President  Nixon inherited an inflation generated fairly quickly by excessive demand.  His  severe monetary and fiscal restrictions created high levels of unemployment that crippled production, and yet inflation continued. Two years later the  President  applied a 90-day pricesincomes freeze followed by a period of justified increases. Without analysing the differences between the United States and Australian economies, the Opposition would like us to follow the United States just as closely as we followed that nation into the Vietnam war. Yet our economies are as different as our roles in foreign affairs. There is no single cause of inflation in Australia but the Opposition sticks stubbornly to its rhetoric that cost-push due to wages is the sole cause of inflation. The rationale behind the imposition of phase 1 of the American controls was to break the expectation held by the people that inflation was inevitable and must be hedged by increased incomes and profits. The economy of the United States is largely independent and the cause of inflation largely cost-push, whereas Australia is an open economy with a significant part of its gross national product due to trade. There is more chance of breaking inflationary expectations in an economy that is largely domestic. Australia, on the other hand, experiences a high degree of imported inflation. 
A successful prices-incomes policy in Australia can be exercised only if the Australian 
Government has control over the increases in both wages and prices. The setting of wages in Australia is highly centralised and controlled insofar as award wages are concerned, and Commonwealth awards flow on through State determinations. However, the Australian Government is the only Federal government that does not have the power to control prices. On the other hand, it has the responsibility for achieving full employment, equilibrium of the balance of payments, price stability, an efficient use of resources, satisfactory economic growth and an equitable distribution of income. Strangely enough, it does not hold the key, the common denominator to achieve these often conflicting goals, and that is price control. In Australia, the constitition prevent the national government instituting price control. Unquestionably, the Australian Parliament should have legislative power over prices, whatever the government in power. The Australian Government can legislate on prices only in wartime under wartime controls. We are now fighting a war against inflation. The Federal Government must have the power of price control to win that war. 
What is the alternative that now exists to those who advocate a prices-incomes policy without change in the distribution of power between the States and the Federal Government? If we have separated powers working in opposite directions the inflation could well be aggravated or bring about unnecessary profit squeezing. The Leader of the Opposition promises us the co-operation of the Liberal Premiers to carry out his phase 1 program. He is caught in a cleft stick because he will not agree to referring essential powers to what he terms a centralist government. What confidence can we have in his Liberal Premiers in a fight against inflation if they cannot agree with the Australian Government on the need to control land prices through a land price stabilisation scheme funded by joint land commissions? What confidence can we have in his cohorts if they see co-operation in terms of centralism and will not refer any powers over prices to the national government? They have nothing to lose, for it is a power they have never exercised. In their battle to protect State rights, they have entirely forgotten the only rights that matter - the rights of the people, a right to expect protection from inflation. 
There will be no justice in a system that can restrict increases in wages via the Arbitration Commission and places no restriction on profits. Unless profits and prices can be controlled or modified, working people will be justified in treating any program with suspicion. The Opposition gives those on salaries and wages no reason to lift that suspicion. Any percentage increase in profits over a percentage increase in wages leaves the mass of Australian people worse off. The present distribution of the nation's wealth is not equitable; 90 per cent of the Australian people earn through wages only 63 per cent of the nation's wealth, whereas the remaining 10 per cent receive 36 per cent of the gross national product through profits. Any further shift in sharing in favour of the owners of production cannot be tolerated. 
There may be arguments about the economic effectiveness of a prices-incomes policy but there can be no question that if they are to be effective they must be immediate and unchallenged. But I believe the Opposition, with its phase 1, phase 2 program, has put the cart before the horse. Studies of overseas pricesincomes policies show that success depends upon regulation of the economy before the imposition of any prices-incomes policy, and not afterwards. If this does not happen, the policy does not work and prices still rise. Furthermore, when the policy is relaxed there is a great likelihood of galloping inflation occurring immediately afterwards. The economy must be regulated and inflation slowed by curbing excess demand, increasing competition in the business sector and balancing external trade and the rate of exchange before any prices-incomes policies can be employed. Nowhere does the Leader of the Opposition tell us what machinery and administration he would create to implement a prices-incomes policy. He is also silent on details of his proposed economic regulation that he collectively titles phase 2. But of course this regulation is already in existence, prepared and brought to maturity since this Government came to office. While the Leader of the Opposition proclaims his new, bold, radical but questionable initiatives, the Government has already put a more feasible plan into gear. 
Firstly, we recognise that there has always been a restriction on wages as increases have to be. justified in the eyes of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Secondly, we have established the Joint Prices Committee and the Prices Justification Tribunal to restrain unjustified prices increases. The Tribunal has the task of examining cost structures and the degree of competition in the market, and of submitting profits to a proper test. The Constitution may prevent us from introducing what the people want - price control - but if the Tribunal shows that any increases in prices are unjustified the Government will not hesitate to use its fiscal and purchasing powers to drive prices downward. This approach has the added advantage of avoiding any misallocation of resources or the creation of a black market price system that often accompanies overrestrictive price controls. 
Thirdly, on the productivity side which is a measure of efficiency we will strengthen the Restrictive Trade Practices Act, an anaemic legacy from the previous Government. Cutting tariffs by 25 per cent has removed excess protection so that industries must compete more vigorously with increased imports, with obvious benefits to the consumer. The 20 per cent increase expected in imports, valued at about $800m, will also have a moderating effect on inflation by easing bottlenecks in domestic productive capacity. Undoubtedly the lack of control on credit and liquidity exercised by the previous Government has contributed to the current level of inflation. During 1972-73 the volume of money increased by 25.7 per cent compared with a 10.5 per cent increase in 1971-72 and 6.8 per cent a year earlier. A change in government in December also marked a change in the rate of increase in the volume of money. During the last 6 months it increased by only 7.7 per cent compared with a staggering 18 per cent in the previous 6 months under the previous Government. The last revaluation and proposed increase in interest rates will mop up further excess liquidity, but it is becoming increasingly apparent that the Federal Government must expand its control over fringe banking institutions if it is to control liquidity completely. 

 Mr Speaker, the Government has complemented fiscal action with a continuous and flexible monetary policy that adds up to an attack on inflation across a broad front without the disadvantages of widespread unemployment. But the full benefit can be achieved only if the Australian Government receives full cooperation from the States. Many words have been spoken by the Leader of the Opposition about promised co-operation from non-Labor State governments. Now is the time to turn words into action. I commend the Budget to the House. 
I rise to support the Bill. I do so knowing that this is the third time that this House will have dealt with a similar Bill. It seems rather strange that on 2 occasions it should have been rejected until one realises that one can either take a party line or exercise a free vote on such a matter. I will be taking that up later. It is also relevant that this debate takes place now when there are 2 men waiting capital sentence in the Australian Capital Territory. I cannot claim to have had the close association with the law that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has had but I can understand his wrestling with the problems involved and wrestling with his approach to consistency as to the value of life and the role of a government in upholding that value. 
I can understand how many governments have changed their stand and how many individuals have changed their stand on this matter. I myself was equivocal on it when I was quite young but with maturing years and maturing attitude I think I have taken the only right objective conclusion and that is to support the present Bill. Therefore it was interesting to come across the words of someone who is vitally concerned with the matter of the repeal of capital punishment. I am referring to  Sir Ernest  Gowers who was  Chairman  of the United Kingdom Royal Commission on Capital Punishment. He wrote in his book 'A Life for a Life: The Problem of Capital Punishment', published in 1956 after the Commission had published its report: 
Before serving on the Royal Commission, I like most other people, had given no great thought to the problem. If I had ben asked for my opinion, I should probably have said that I was in favour of the death penalty, and disposed to regard abolitionists as people whose hearts were bigger than their heads. Four years of close study of the subject gradually dispelled that feeling. In the end I became convinced that the abolitionists were right in their conclusions - though 
I could not agree with all their arguments - and that so far from the sentimental approach leading into their camp and the rational one into that of the supporters, it was the other way about. 
There are many reasons why we should oppose the retention of capital puishment. The death penalty is a barbaric practice which has no place in a society claiming to be civilised. It is derived from a crude desire for revenge which is made doubly abhorrent by the fact that should justice go astray and a mistake be made it can never be corrected. It seems strange to me that the charge of those who would like to retain capital punishment is directed to the abolitionists by saying that the abolitionists have too much concern for the murdered and not enough for the victim. They would rather appease their sense of revenge and extend to the murdered the hurt that was suffered by the victim. If the victim was murdered, capital punishment is not going to bring that victim back to life or in any way improve the situation of those who have suffered. Some people may prefer to retain the death penalty for such other crimes as rape. To liquidate the rapist is certainly not going to reconstitute the virginity or wholesomeness of the victim. It is only because they wish to feel a sense of revenge that they carry out the death penalty for severe crimes of a like nature. If they were concerned perhaps they would have extended their attention to relieving the hardship of the remaining family or of the victim if close to death. In fact, I find in my readings and studies that it is the abolitionists who are more concerned with the victim and would like to see changes made in the law that would give compensation and other forms of assistance to offset the harm and danger to the victim. 
The move that we are making here is only another step of a member nation of the United Nations to follow one of its recommendations. The United Nations involvement in the question dates back to a resolution adopted by the General Assembly in 1959, a recommendation by the United Nations Economic and Social Council 4 years later that governments remove capital punishment from the criminal law in the case of crimes to which it was in practice not applied, and a further recommendation in 1971 that the main objective to be pursued is that of progressively reducing the number of offences for which capital punishment might be imposed with a view to the desirability of abolishing this punishment in all countries. A similar affirmation was approved by the United Nations General Assembly. 
I understand that the Australian Capital Territory has not carried out the death penalty for some time. So it is certainly one of those penalties which not being applied would well and truly come under the recommendations of the United Nations. I came across a report issued recently in the name of the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations,  Dr Kurt  Waldheim. En this report he lists 23 countries, including Britain, that have abolished capital punishment. I understand that Venezuela was the first in 1863, followed by Portugal of all countries 4 years later and the Netherlands in 1870. The report also noted that since the United Nations charter was signed in 1945 only a few countries have abolished the death penalty, but we notice that in those are countries very similar in culture to our own. I refer, in addition to Britain, to Austria, Finland, Israel, New Zealand, Malta, Peru, and among the non-members of the United Nations, West Germany. 
Of the 50 States of the United States of America 15 are abolitionist, and of the 32 States and territories of Mexico  29  are abolitionist. Strangely, in Australia 3 of the 6 Australian States and Territories are abolitionist. Gradually the States have been loath to carry out their death sentences upon convicted murderers. Queensland was the first State of Australia to abolish the death penalty. It did so in 1923, after its last hanging in 1913. New South Wales followed in 1955 with its last hanging - I nearly said 'celebrated' - in 1939. Last year the Northern Territory passed an ordinance abolishing the death penalty. So we can see that there have been advances not only internationally but in our own country. 
One might ask then what are arguments in favour of the retention of the death penalty. Once again in my reading - this has been quite extensive  -  I have tried to boil it down to principles. Although specific exemptions have been given - and I understand that is probably the content of the amendments to be moved to this Bill - I find that they can boil down to two, and they are correlated. The first is that the death penalty is a unique deterrent. Secondly and consequently, there is not a suitable alternative. The people who adopt the attitude that it is a unique deterrent have yet to show that it does reduce the incidence of crimes. If we take the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory we find that the number of those imprisoned and sentenced in the Northern Territory is about 17 times that of the Australian Capital Territory although at the time of these comparisons both had retained the death penalty. It is when we consider these comparisons of territories of a similar population but with vastly different cultures and social fabrics that we realise it is not a question of the crime or the circumstances of that crime but that the reasons for crimes go well into the fabric of society. It is here that we should be looking for the causes. Instead of lopping the scab off the sore we should be trying to heal the disease - the cause of crimes. 
We find that in those countries which have abolished the death penalty there has been no change in the incidence of crimes caeteris paribus - that is, other things being equal. In fact, probably there has been a marginal decline in the incidence of crime. But still we have the death penalty retentionists telling us that there should be exceptions in the case of the killing of prison officials and politicians. I was fortunate to come across some evidence which would suggest that the retention of the death penalty does not lower the incidence of murder against officials. I am referring to the work carried out by Professor Sellin in the United States who shows that in 265 cities - that is in 11 death-penalty States and 6 abolitionist States - where the police had always been armed, death penalty or not, in the abolitionist States there had been 1.2 fatal attacks on policemen per 100,000 of the population and in the capital punishment States the rate was 1.3. Commenting on this Professor Sellin holds: 
The claim that if data could be secured they would show that more police are killed in abolition States than in the capital punishment States is unfounded. On the whole the abolition States appear to have fewer killings, but the differences are small. If this is the argument upon which the police rest their opposition to the abolition of capital punishment, it must be concluded that it lacks any factual basis. 
We also find that the retentionists would like to retain the death penalty for such crimes as hijacking, drug trafficking and treason. I must differ with the honourable member for Moreton in regard to treason in respect of which he argued that the death penalty should be maintained. 1 would like to ask him what would have happened to George Washington if America had lost the War of Independence? Would he have been tried for treason? This is the kernel of the argument that the death penalty should be retained for treason. The fact is that it is a highly political matter; it is very vague in its terms and is left entirely to the discretion of the extremists - the John Birches, the nazis, the communists and those of extreme ideologies who would use such vagaries and such interpretations for their own political causes. 
So, looking for common principles in these exemptions from the abolition of the death penalty we must ask ourselves why one deterrent should work in some cases and not in others. This is what lies behind the argument. Why should the retention of the death penalty work when it comes to hijacking or treason, drug trafficking or lulling officials but not in other crimes in respect of which they agree that the death penalty should be lifted. For example, in premeditated murder we would find that if the people concerned were conscious of the penalties they would weigh up the chances of being caught. It is very rarely that a criminal of this nature thinks that he will be caught. In other words, the existence of the death penalty is not a deterrent. Of course, we cannot consider that the death ' penalty would act as a deterrent if people were not conscious of it. Most crimes of passion committed in the heat of the moment are those for which most people agree the death penalty should be lifted. Hijacking is a desperation move and usually has its causes in some desperation move due to some political situation. Of course, most people in this House would agree that the death penalty should be lifted for those murders by accident which can usually be dealt with by a sentence for manslaughter. 
But I still ask those who would have exemptions why some crimes are more serious than others. It is nothing more than a value judgment and they pit that value judgment against the principle of the sanctity of life. It seems to me in summary that the barbaric penalties of death or flogging are always suggested when a particular crime goes out of proportion and frightens reasoned public opinion or reasoned politicians. It may seem strange to some of my opponents in the debate on the Medical Practice Clarification Bill for me to talk about the sanctity of life so I should like to repeat one of the principles which I enunciated in that debate and which 1 should like to apply to the debate tonight. I was talking in that debate about rights only being as strong as when protected by might - by the State and I said that once a State had conferred that right, it must use its might to protect it from then on. I stated: 
The State that can confer the right to life and honour that right without question, such as to the viable foetus, will also honour that right at all times. The obligation is such that the principle be enshrined in law and capital punishment repealed and euthanasia continued to be made illegal. For, once the right to life has been conferred, life should not be taken unless by consent or when it can be proven beyond doubt that the taking of life was essential to protect the equal rights of another. The principle of right to life should not be granted cheaply and unless the right to life can be protected, its consistent application is the greatest legal protection against a government or a society developing a disrespect for all life. 
I am arguing that to accept the death penalty is to invoke a disrespect for life. 
I should like to summarise by running quickly through the main arguments for the abolition of the death penalty. Firstly, capital punishment and all that surrounds it is degrading and brutalising. It affects not only those who take a direct part in the proceedings, but the whole community. The publicity which accompanies it - there must be publicity if it is to be a deterrent - arouses a morbid sensationalism and lowers the general moral tone of society. Secondly, violence begets violence. Why should we be surprised when individuals solve their problems in a violent way when society solves its problems in a violent way? Thirdly, the act is irremediable and mistakes have been made. Fourthly, it facilitates the development of undesirable - that is, sadistic - drives and emotional states among the population at large. Finally, it allows people to allay their own guilt by enabling them to indulge in a sort of moral orgy of selfrighteousness. This could result in the taking away of attention from the real problem, a denying of any degree of collective responsibility, either for the conditions in society which may have been facilitating factors in the crime situation or for the reform and rehabilitation of the murderer. It is on that argument and for those reasons that I support the abolition of the death penalty in the Australian Capital Territory and territories under the control of the Australian Parliament. 
To conclude, there are still those who may think this is an individual stand. But this is a collective stand of this Parliament. It is not a decision which has been taken by an individual in society; it is a decision which must be taken here and now because it is only this Parliament which can decide whether a man should lose his life. That is why I believe that the only right, consistent, collective responsible decision of this Parliament is to support this Bill. 
Has the attention of the Treasurer been drawn to a statement attributed to the visiting former British Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr Roy  Jenkins, that inflation could be attacked effectively through a prices policy without necessarily having statutory control over wages? Can the Treasurer indicate whether Australia could expect a far lower rate of inflation such as that achieved by the Stafford Cripps policy in 1949 through statutory powers over prices and voluntary controls on wages? 
Can the Minister for Immigration inform the House what measures are being taken by the Government to overcome the drastic shortage of interpreters to assist migrants with little or no English in such matters as contracts, court cases and government welfare services? Can the Minister also inform the House what safeguards and qualifications will be expected to ensure that interpreters in official and unofficial business will always act in the best interests of the clients requiring the service? 
I rise to join in this cognate debate and to support the Government in its moves to improve the welfare of those who benefit under this legislation. Before I do so I would like to thank the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  for their promises of support from their respective parties. The honourable member for Darling Downs added some criticisms which I think were a little unfortunate in that they point out the poor features of the previous legislation and its development in that there were ad hoc changes, improvements and measures. I think that the honourable member should wait until we hear from the findings of the national advisory council on the handicapped soon to be established and then find out how we can approach the whole matter of the handicapped with a co-ordinated and long range plan. 
The size of the handicapped population is not declining, even though, due to a reduction in the incidence of infectious diseases, there has been a decline in the number of babies born with brain damage. The overall increase is due mainly to the survival of babies born with what previously were fatal conditions and to industrial and increasing road accidents as well as advances made by medical science. However, estimates of the number of handicapped persons are not easily made. They are not readily available owing to differences in definitions and standards of normality and due to the reticence of many handicapped people to admit that they are actually handicapped. An estimate of the World Health Organisation states that between 1 per cent and 3 per cent of the world's population is mentally retarded. As we were reminded by the honourable member for Hotham, it would appear from these figures that at any time there would be between 120,000 and 240,000 mentally handicapped persons in Australia. Included in that figure would be about 45,000 people under the age of 20. 
This Bill attempts to change the method of administration by bringing local government actively into this sphere of help for handicapped people because it will mean localised centres. These are essential because we are not talking about the individuals involved. We are talking of the families involved. The figures given to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, dealing with retardation, in 1971 put the number of mentally retarded Victorians at between 70,000 and 71,000. Conservatively assuming that each of those people directly affect 3 normal people, that means that 300,000 Victorians know what mental retardation really means. When we are considering our program, our integrated plan for the handicapped, surely with these figures and knowing about the family's involvement we should be catering for them all. We must be considering also their life with their handicapped family member. Planning must be on a regional basis, not for large institutions, and be planned well away from families. 
I now turn to the 2 Bills before the House. The Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill opens the way, as I prefaced my introduction, **r local government to contribute to the welfare of the handicapped. Local government authorities will be able to involve themselves in the establishment of training centres, training equipment and residential units. Local governments have displayed only a minor concern in the past. Usually it has been up to local governments to sponsor or initiate early moves, such as the calling of public meetings, and perhaps to sponsor the establishment of a committee, to invigorate that committee to call for funds and even occasionally to donate land to this worthy cause. The program itself is now 3 years old and voluntary and religious organisations have made strong demands on the Federal Government to provide funds. This is because we have relied mainly on the voluntary religious organisations as well as the State instrumentalities. Over these 3 years we have seen a total of $7m granted, mostly for training centres; but also, I might mention, Si. 4m was spent on residences and 5900,000 on training equipment. 
Assistance for handicapped persons in Australia has always been spearheaded by voluntary organisations, financed in the main by groups of hard working relatives. It seems we have to be vitally concerned with the handicapped people to realise the importance of upgrading their lives and integrating them with the community. Without that involvement it seems that governments have been tardy in the past. The efforts of these organisations are to be commended and I congratulate them. I should like to mention two such organisations in my own electorate of La Trobe, one on the border I share with the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  I refer to Monkami. The other is Knoxbrooke, which is well in the centre of my electorate. Another organisation which has been giving great service is in the electorate of Diamond Valley. I am sure that the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  who sits adjacent to me in this House and who will not have the opportunity to speak in this debate, would like me to mention the fine institution of Churinga. 
However, as can be expected, the growth of such services has been uneven throughout the country. There is a need for increased cooperation between the Commonwealth and State departments, particularly with regard to the uniformity of services and long term planning of facilities for the handicapped. There will be funds following the establishment of another commission - another initiative by this Government. A previous speaker asked what help would be flowing from the findings of the interim committee of the Australian Schools Commission. I should like to mention just briefly that there will be funds flowing from the Karmel report. So, there will be less reliance on this Act for education of the handicapped. With less demands for education, the remainder of the funds will be spent in more pressing areas, such as residences. 
The Karmel Committee recognised that the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act 1970 provides for assistance for a range of facilities wider than purely educational ones and it notes that the education of mentally and physically handicapped children is a particularly complex area both by reason of the range and the degree of the handicaps to be catered for and by the diversity of organisational arrangements that have developed over the years in the various States. The Committee observed that about 33,000 children throughout Australia are receiving full time education in special schools and classes for handicapped children. About 85 per cent of them are in government schools and the remainder are in schools run by voluntary bodies or in schools operated by church authorities. While in the 3 smaller States the Government has accepted almost sole responsibility, the voluntary bodies are most active in the 3 larger States. These bodies are composed mainly of parents who have come together by sheer necessity in order to establish a school so that their children may receive an education. While these schools receive substantial subsidies from State and Commonwealth Governments, the parents are responsible for meeting significant costs, usually by fund raising activities and voluntary labour rather than by substantial fees. In Victoria, the Mental Health Authority is the agency responsible for subsidising most voluntary bodies to provide education and training for moderately and severely intellectually handicapped children. 
The Karmel Committee believes that in the great majority of cases the diffusion of effort and resources in this way is wasteful and often deleterious to the education of the children concerned. The delegation of responsibility for the education of intellectually handicapped children to health authorities appears to represent a carry-over from the traditional belief that such people are in need of constant medical supervision. The Committee notes that in recent years Great Britain has transferred the educational responsibility for these children from health to education authorities. The Committee, while conscious of States rights in this matter, feels it should register its belief that the interests of handicapped children would be best served if responsibility for their education were placed in the hands of State Education Departments. We have much to witness and look forward to in initiatives of this Government in marrying and integrating education, under the Interim Committee, soon to be the Australian Schools Commission, with the Department of Social Security. 
There is a critical shortage of specialist teaching staff for handicapped children and pupils with learning disabilities. This was revealed in an interim report of the ministerial committee of inquiry into special education in Victoria. The report deals particularly with the staffing crisis in the Education Department's psychology and guidance branch and speech therapy branch. The report says that there are only 98 guidance officers - 43 still in training - in the psychology and guidance branch serving a school population of more than 600,000 and the speech therapy branch will finish this year with a deficiency of 59 staff members. One of the reasons why the Victorian Government has been tardy in taking initiatives in this area is that it has excluded handicapped children from their right of free education under the Victorian Education Act. However, the Victorian Government finally has responded to the pressures of the parents, the voluntary bodies, the religious bodies and the findings of the Karmel report and has extended section 61 of the Education Act 1958 to make the Education Department, not the parent - I want honourable members to note that - responsible for the education of mentally and physically handicapped children. 
It is not my claim that the Karmel report was responsible for this turnabout; this was an admission by the Assistant Minister for Education,  Mr Dixon,  about a fortnight ago. He said that the interim report had been made on the implications of the Federal Government's Karmel report on Victorian special education. Because of these initiatives there will be a change in emphasis in the program of expenditure under the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill. There will be a concentration now on residential accommodation for mentally retarded children. The waiting list for admission of mentally retarded patients into residential institutions in Victoria is in a state of crisis. Not only is the number of desperate cases awaiting admission increasing alarmingly but also there is no foreseeable time when the Government's proposed residential facilities will be able to cope with the demand. The present residential centres are seriously overcrowded and understaffed and yet they are still being pressured to admit more patients by families who are waiting in desperate circumstances for a bed. It is only when we come in contact with these desperate families and have witnessed the pressures they are under that we realise there is a great need in many cases for an extension of the number of beds available to these people. The key, the index, to the bed shortage crisis is the list of mentally retarded people waiting for admission to Victoria's 9 institutions. That list is increasing at a frightening rate. There is no question that the people on the list urgently need institutional care. Many of them are severely retarded children whose parents are unable to cope and are under psychiatric care. 
A mother came into my office in my electorate of La Trobe with a young child of 4 years of age. The child could do nothing but roll on the carpet of my office. It could lift its head only a matter of 6 inches. That was the total free physical movement of which that child was capable. Until that time I had a fleeting understanding and a peripheral concern for the families of handicapped children. From that time, I undertook much research and I am now vitally concerned, as is this Government. That woman cannot find an institution - a bed - to take the pressure off heT family, not even so that she can take a 2weeks holiday after a year of strain. The problem is that there is nowhere for them to go. The average wait is around 2 years. The parents of one severely retarded Mongol child have been on the list for more than 7 years. 
The waiting list is split into 4 categories, and these will really emphasise how the Victorian Government has attempted to cope but obviously has not been able to keep up with the demand. The first category is: Most urgent - family in a state of crisis, immediate placement in an institution needed. At latest count there were 318 on this list. The second category is: Urgent - immediate placement desirable, but the family problems are not as grave. There are 207 cases in this category. Probably the mother of young Michael who came to my office is in this category. The third category is: Pending^ - no immediate crisis, but an institutional bed will be needed eventually. There are 813 on this waiting list. The fourth category is: Register - families are coping with the retarded child, placement may never be necessary. There are 1,908 on the list. The real danger area, according to the social workers' report, is the list of 525 families in varying degrees of desperation on the urgent and most urgent waiting lists. This figure is currently increasing at around 25 per cent a year. Sixty new cases came on the list in the 6 months up to about May, according to the medical health authority. 
The plight of Victoria is repeated in other States. It is gratifying that the Karmel Committee report and the change in emphasis given to this Act by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will mean that more money will be available for residential accommodation. There will be grants made of $2.25m, which is $250,000 less than last year's total but that had to cover education of the handicapped children as well. Last year the grant was $2. 5m, although when we look at the expenditure we find that only $1,781,937 was actually spent. So not only do we have an increase in the proposed expenditure for the current year but also we can add to that the amount that will come from the Karmel Committee report. I have expressed ray concern personally and I have mentioned an individual case. I am glad to join the Government and I am glad to hear the voices of the Opposition joining in approving the initiatives and the change in emphasis that has been pioneered in this Act by the Minister for Social Security. I commend the Bill to the House. 
In speaking in this debate on the estimates of the AttorneyGeneral's Department I refer to Division 120, items 3.03, 3.04 and 3.06 which relate to legal aid. There are certain basic rules of democracy and freedom which state that there should be equality under the law but it is often overlooked that to obtain equality under the law we also need equality of access to h law if we are to protect those freedoms.  A  recent study carried out by the New South Wales Bureau of Crime Statistics and Research indicates that there is a law for the rich and a law for the poor. The figures concern 28,813 documented petty session court cases held in the first 6 months of last year. The Bureau divided them into cases where people were represented and where they were not. It took into account verdicts of not guilty, dismissal, recognisance and imprisonment with or without fine. The Bureau dealt with cases where there were no previous convictions and it found that a person who had legal representation had a 61 times better chance of securing an outright judgment in his favour. Represented people had a 3 to 1 advantage for dismissals. Unrepresented people, on the other hand, were 3 times more likely to be sent to prison. Threequarters of those found not guilty were represented but 9 out of 10 sent to prison were unrepresented. I conclude that these figures of the New South Wales Bureau of Crime Statistics and Research show that a double standard does operate. 
I turn now to some comments made 02 the Australian Broadcasting Commission on 16 July last year by  Dr Paul  Wilson, a lecturer, I think in sociology at the Queensland University, who stated that the scarcity of legal services offered to the poor and the noi so poor in this country are in fact realistic. He said: 
My second major criticism of Australian lawyers relates to the scarcity of legal services offered to the poor and not so poor in this country. In fact the record of Australian criminal legal aid is distinguished only by its inadequacy. All over the country accused persons still go unrepresented in criminal cases simply because they do not qualify for legal aid and cannot afford their own lawyers. Explicit or implicit means tests do not allow legal services to be given to the very groups in most need of them, and I'm talking about men on the basic wage, deserted wives and working men with large families. These people are more likely than others to be victims of slick salesmen, of fraudulent hire purchase agreements, of high divorce costs . . . 
He continued: 
If the legal profession and governments are really concerned with the legal rights of the weaker, or indeed all, members of Australian society then the limitations of Australian legal aid schemes will have to be recognised. 
Last year the previous Government to some extent recognised that situation. In Canberra in March last year it finally passed an ordinance so that the legal aid scheme which works in collaboration with the profession on a reduced fee basis could be extended to those in need of it. The present scheme works on a reduced fee basis and is subsidised by the Government to the extent of 100 per cent of the reduced fees. This will continue until such time as there are sufficient moneys in the fidelity fund of the legal profession when payments for legal aid will be made from that fund. Under the present scheme 237 applications for legal assistance had been received in the first 4 months of its operation. 
It is pleasing to notice that the amount provided for the Attorney-General's Department under this heading in the Appropriation Bill has been increased to $120,000 but the situation in the Australian Capital Territory which allows so many people to be assisted is not extended over the whole of Australia. It is not extended to the same extent to those about whom we heard in the last debate - the Aboriginal population of the Northern Territory. It is not readily accessible to the ordinary suburban people in the lower socioeconomic groupings throughout Australia outside of the Australian Capital Territory. In Victoria, for instance, the Legal Aid Committee does commendable work in the field of civil litigation, such as divorce, maintenance and landlord and tenant matters and the like. But in practice people facing criminal charges in magistrates courts generally are unrepresented. The Public Solicitor is empowered to provide legal aid to people without means in criminal cases before Courts of General Sessions and the Supreme Court, but a Master of Arts thesis done at the University of Melbourne last year indicated that about 40 per cent of the people who applied for assistance then received none. I am pleased to report that that has since been reduced to about 25 per cent to 30 per cent. But it still is not good enough for a government - State or Federal - to say that there is equal access to the law. 
Although the criteria used by the Public Solicitor for refusing assistance are not entirely clear, they seem to involve an assessment of whether an applicant has a reasonable prospect of being acquitted. People with criminal records generally are denied legal representation even though such representation would lead to more acquittals, would allow the accused's case to be presented in a more favourable light and would tend to lead to more sentences which in part are concerned with the rehabilitation of the people concerned. It is obvious that we need to have equal access to the law if we are to have equal treatment under the law. 
The position still remains that a man of low occupational status has more chance of being dealt with severely by our courts than has a man of high occupational status. The reason is, of course, that the poorer man cannot afford legal representation. Usually he does not know that a public legal aid system exists. Quite often he cannot afford even the most modest fines that are imposed and thus is forced to work out his punishment by actual imprisonment. In many cases such a person suffers a penalty before being brought to court because he is unable to obtain bail, whereas a more educated man would know how to obtain it. We need to make a determined effort to extend the availability of the advantages of the Australian Capital Territory system of legal aid, through either salaried centres or a bureau composed of the legal fraternity, to people throughout Australia. 
I do not know what would be the best means of doing so. Surely that should be the work of an expert committee. It is extremely satisfying to know that the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in fact has established such a committee. In announcing the establishment of the committee, the Attorney-General said that it would examine all aspects of legal aid in Australia, including areas of need, methods of providing and financing legal aid, and the supervision of the actual expenditure. When the legal advice centres begin operating they are expected to be staffed by salaried lawyers working in close co-operation with community welfare organisations, established legal aid schemes, referral centres and the private legal profession. I look forward to the findings of the committee and the extension of the fine services provided in the Australian Capital Territory, although they are the subject of some criticism at present, to the rest of Australia. 
A constituent who was on a pension and whose assets were tied up in his own house - essential shelter - came to me with a letter from the Legal Aid Committee in Victoria saying that he was expected to pay $100 and to accept in writing the condition that he, in effect, mortgage his own house in case the case went against him, and only then would a solicitor be appointed to act for him. In addition, he was requested to make an immediate payment of $100 towards the legal costs. He could not lay bis hands on that amount of money, so he could not accept the legal aid; and, of course, he could not afford the alternative of private legal representation. Unfortunately, he lost his case because he failed to defend it. It is with pleasure that I point to the increase in the amount of money being made available for legal aid in the Australian Capital Territory. I look forward to the extension of the system in the Australian Capital Territory to the States of Australia. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. What is the Australian Government's involvement in the migrant education program and the catering for latch key children in Brunswick North Primary School in Melbourne and in similar projects in other parts of Australia? 
The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  who has just taken his seat, is rather angry that the Bill came on so quickly. In fact the basis of the construction of the Schools Commission and its duties were outlined in approximate terms in the report of the Interim Committee of the Australian Schools Commission 5 months ago. Since that time a further 44 months has elapsed and still we hear from members of the Opposition, as typified in the comments of the honourable member for Warringah, vagaries and ill-researched comments upon this extremely important Bill. For instance, the honourable member complained of the way in which we have constructed the Commission, but I have the wording of the former Government's Australian Commission on Advanced Education Bill 1971, from which the wording of the present Bill was copied. It states: 
The Commission shall consist of a Chairman and such other members, not being less than four in number, not more than nine in number, as are appointed from time to time. 
The example, if there are vagaries and I contend there are not, was set by the Opposition when it was in government. The honourable member for Warringah accused the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  of virtual incompetence and said that he would be replaced as a Minister. There is more likelihood of there being a new member for Warringah than there is of there being a new Minister for Education. The Minister has shown compassion and understanding and an overall review that has been necessary for any advancement in Australian education in the primary and secondary sectors. 
We see the same sort of attack that was levelled against the report of the Interim Committee. The Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission chaired by Professor Karmel and including representatives of government and non-government schools entitled its report simply 'Australian Schools'. Now we have simply 'Schools Commission'. It is difficult to believe, and impossible to accept or to justify, that so much of the public and political discussion, coming from our opponents, of the Government's needs approach - which is a breakthrough - should be pre-occupied with the alleged and negotiable implementation anomalies affecting 105 private schools out of the total of 9,500 schools. Now members of the Opposition are relying upon small points to try to drag this Bill down. Let us look at what happened when the report came down and the Cabinet adopted that report with one minor modification. Of the 734 nongovernment schools, 105 mainly - but not all - very wealthy ones, lost $1.50 to $2 a student a week. These schools enrol a shade over 2 per cent of the nation's learners and, at a good guess, at least 80 per cent of the families involved are either well-to-do, rich or completely loaded. I am not criticising those parents who make a sacrifice because for them there is not an alternative standard of equality education in the State system. Parents of a slightly larger group will have to find between 26c a week and $1 a week extra to finance their rejection of the State system, and 7 per cent of students in the neediest schools in the nation pick up an extra $1.50 to $2 a week. 
People expect value for the money they pay in taxation. This Commission will ensure that they get value for money. It is not the excess dollars that are raised that they complain about; it is how the money is spent. Every clause in this Bill is designed to ensure the maximisation of value from each dollar collected and spent on education. Let us look at the comments of the parents and teachers, for instance, on the findings of the report handed down by the Karmel Committee. The Australian Capital Territory Council of Parents and Citizens Associations commends the Committee and its report. It welcomes particularly the Committee's statement that the strength and representativeness of the government school sector should not be diluted by policies for the private sector. Had such a policy statement backed by action come in the past from the Government of the day, now the Opposition, the Committee would not now be reporting serious and widespread deficiencies in the quantity and quality of human and material resources in government schools, which, I need not remind this House but it can bear repeating, carry the bulk of community responsibility for the education of disadvantaged children as well as for the great majority of all Australian children. 
What do the teachers think of the first report? The Australian Teachers Federation, with a membership of about 100,000 teachers, has made a thorough and objective study of the Interim Committee's report. The Federation states: 
The report has our complete support. We believe the philosophy and recommendations of the Committee members represent the most important development in Australian education this century. It has implications, not only for education, but for the kind of society Australia may become. 
It would be a tragedy for the majority of parents and students if the biased, ill-informed criticism now coming from the Opposition, much of it naturally is politically motivated, led to the watering down of the findings in that Committee's report. We did not water them down. We agreed to reviews, which were already advised before the report was handed down. 
Grants to schools and school systems will be made to the States under section 96 of the Australian Constitution, and they will be made, as is right and proper under section 96, on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. Although grants have always been made this way, and particularly on recommendations of such bodies as the Australian Universities Commission, members of the Opposition still shout 'centralism' as if the conditions attaching to the grants were opposed. But before resorting to cliches - the only spice I find in their dull rhetoric - they should examine what is meant by centralism and the purpose of the Commission itself. The Constitution places the responsibility of public education on the States. This Commission will not interfere with the management of schools or school systems. In other words the Constitution has not been violated. What we are arguing for is the devolvement of responsibility within the schools. We are arguing for greater diversity of education which, instead of being limited to the independent sector as it is now, should be evident in both the government and nongovernment sectors. But in providing the funds for schooling we wish to ensure that the basic Australian objective of equality of opportunity prevails. The States may refuse to accept the funds on the conditions we request. In fact, the Victorian Government tried to redress what it considered an imbalance in the access to equality of education by disbursing its own funds to take up the original per capita grants. I contend that this is an absolute denial of the equality of opportunity to education. Equality of access is only half the story. It is equality of access to education that will produce in a particular individual an equality of expected performance within the capabilities of the individual. 
The functions of the Commission will be determined not by a permanent bureaucracy or by an enlarged and inflexible bureaucracy as advocated by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser);  they will be determined by all concerned with education, diversified and expert with flexible interests. 
The Commission will be not representing but representative of the interests that go to make up the community and those involved in education. As the Minister has said: 
The establishment of a Schools Commission is a logical extension of the principles adopted by former governments in regard to universities and colleges of advanced education. Our approach is to establish commissions of expert advisers rather than a vast centralised administrative machine. . . . We therefore seek in this legislation to set up an efficient, impartial body to examine, identify and determine needs of students in government and non-government schools at the primary and secondary levels in Australia. 
The first qualification or term of reference for the Commission is to 'have regard to the primary obligation, in relation to education, for governments to provide and maintain government school systems that are of the highest standard and are open, without fees or religious tests, to all children'. 
Parents should have the right to educate their children at private schools. They should have the right to choose, as the honourable member for Warringah reminded us, under section 26 of the United Nations charter. This is not challenged. It is strengthened because unless you have the economic resources of 80 per cent of the parents of children at private schools you do not have a choice. Many parents sacrifice their own pleasures and convenience for the sake of their children getting a better education because they cannot find it at the moment in the present government systems. To improve the standards, to have a primary obligation to the government schools, will mean an effective choice for all who have the resources or who do not have the resources. I would like to take just one or two moments to praise the efforts of those who in the past, under the desultory system of the previous Government, had to sacrifice to give their children what they thought was a better education. For instance, the Mount Evelyn School for Christian Education in my electorate has been erected, repaired and run entirely - except for the Federal grants for libraries and science blocks - out of the involvement, concern and dedication of the parents of the pupils at that school. I take my hat off to them. Now, because we see equality of education as the goal to equality of performance, enjoyment and contribution to society, we take the wider view that all Australian school children should have this right of choice. 
The differences in resources between nongovernment schools must be removed whilst diversity is still retained. Consequently, because of studies into the purposes of education, the effect of education and the effect of society in determining people's attitudes to education, there is a growing realisation that educational reforms have to be co-ordinated with social and economic reforms. One cannot establish greater equality of opportunity in the educational system without promoting it concomitantly with the social system at large. Anyone who sees the Schools Commission as a single identity without relating it to the other magnificent work the Minister for Education has done or without seeing it in relation to the overall program for which this Government was so overwhelmingly elected, fails to see the inter-relationship between education and the community. 
The Karmel Report and the Schools Commission are part and parcel of an overall attitude to a philosophy contained in the Australian idiom of 'equality of opportunity'. The core of the problem of educational opportunity is whether equality should be viewed as a starting point or as a goal. To state it more precisely, do we want to give everybody an equal formal opportunity of access to education, or do we want everybody to perform more equally at his own standards and to his own satisfaction? The ensuing policies depend upon the answer to that question. If one wants to establish formal equality on entry to the regular educational system and throughout its various stages, the major goal of educational policy should be to provide free access to a system which, at least during the compulsory school age, is structurally unified. That is the philosophy of the Opposition. It fails to distinguish between what is meant by equality and equality of results. If the goal is to reduce differences in performance, equality in formal treatment does not suffice. Differentiated treatment with the aim of providing compensatory education for the socially disadvantaged pupils will have to be considered. It is being considered. It will be considered by the Schools Commission. 
Like the Minister, I regard clause 13, subclause (3) (d) as vital. The Commission will have regard to the needs of disadvantaged schools and of students at disadvantaged schools, and of other students suffering disadvantages in relation to education for social, economic, ethnic, geographic, cultural, lingual or similar reasons. Here is a fruitful field of advice as to how the Australian Government may exercise its power to grant benefits to students. We will be following the standards and experience, so being able to avoid the pitfalls, of the achievements in education in the United Kingdom flowing from the findings and the implementation of the Plowden Report which could be summarised by saying that we have to be more than equal to the unequal to have equality. Who can consider that in our society females have the same prospects of full education as males? Not until our social standards, our social beliefs and mores are changed will we have equality there. That is really beyond the power of the Schools Commission but certainly we can tackle the disadvantages of being born into an Aboriginal family rather than a white family. We can overcome the disadvantages of being born in the country and not having access to the same variety and diversity of education as if one were born in the metropolitan area. Of course we must overcome the cultural factors that have such an impact on an individual's education. 
Strategies for bringing about greater equality of educational opportunity can be brought to bear at 3 levels or points. The first is at preschool age. Once again I remind the House of the Government's integrated approach to overall education - not from pre-school to the tertiary level, but a realisation that education is a state throughout the lifetime of the individual, from birth to the grave. One's strategy should be concentrated on the school itself as an institution. This is the great impact or thrust of the Australian Schools Commission. During third strategy, the post-school period - the open university - there is a constant' realisation that given a thorough preparation in the primary and secondary schools, the individual can continue his development and education until he is completely finished with it. It is gratifying to know that in evolving a new approach to education, which is not hidebound by the fixed bureaucracies or the fixed approaches of the last centuries, we will be paying attention to the development of responsibility. 
I mentioned earlier the benefits that can come from involvement as is found with the Mount Evelyn School for Christian Education - a complete involvement and understanding of why teachers are taking a certain approach, why pupils are learning in a manner different from the way we learnt a generation ago, without panicking about why we do not understand the new mathematics or why there is variance in the degree of discipline in a school. 
By involving ourselves in the school and by speaking to the teachers, to those in areas of responsibility in school councils and to the principals we can have not only a greater understanding and involvement but also have a greater say in what our children should be taught and how they should be taught without interfering with the rights and the benefits that come from having fully trained teachers coming from the expanded now governmentfinanced tertiary institute of teaching colleges. 
This is the first occasion on which I have spoken in full on education in this House. I am glad that it is on such an important Bill that I rose to give my personal philosophy and the philosophy of the Government in realising the co-committal approach we must have between changes in society and changes in schooling. We must de-school society so that we merge both society and the schools. The Schools Commission will carry out that work effectively. I look forward to its work and commend the Bill to the House. 
I support the Student Assistance Bill 1973. One of the aims of this Bill is to provide the legislative basis for the secondary scholarships scheme, the post-graduate award scheme and the tertiary education assistance scheme. One may ask why the need to provide the legislative basis. In 1969 the Scholarships Act was passed, the essential feature of which was that it based scholarships upon regulation and not on ministerial discretion. By section 2 that Act was to come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation. The 1969 Act has not been proclaimed and, therefore, has not come into operation. As the present Government proposes a number of changes to various Commonwealth scholarship schemes, the Scholarships Act 1969 will be repealed without being first proclaimed. In other words, the Act as passed by the Parliament in 1969 will never come into operation. The Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances has presented a report relating to Commonwealth scholarships and awards regulations. The Committee considers that it should be a matter of grave concern to the Senate that the clearly expressed intention of the Parliament embodied in legislation should be nullified for a period of 4 years or more by executive action or inaction. 
The disregard of the Parliament's will on the basis of a want of parliamentary draftsmen to frame regulations is inexcusable. I believe the delay can be answered partly by the minority report provided by  Senator Durack  who said: 
The power to bring the Scholarships Act into operation was granted by the Parliament to the Executive and any decision on this matter is one for the Executive as a matter of policy. 
Despite the bi-partisan approach by members opposite tonight, I contend that it was not drafting difficulties that delayed proclamation. I contend that the wish of the Cabinet, the Executive of the previous Government, was not to execute what was forced upon it by public opinion, and that was a declaration that assistance should be given not on scholastic merit alone but also on a needs basis. This belief has been reinforced by the Opposition's resistance to the Government's implementation of the Karmel report. The Opposition maintains that assistance should be given on a per capita basis. That is why members opposite attempted to swamp the goodwill of the Karmel report with an outburst over Category A schools. They preferred to concentrate on the $2 a week reduction in assistance afforded to the 2 per cent of pupils in 105 schools, which now of course has been reduced to about 50 schools, rather than to concentrate on the advantages of the increased expenditure which would be afforded to the other 98 per cent. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  says that provision for the Schools Commission is not part of this Bill. But we cannot ignore it. Later I will again refer to this lack of understanding by the Opposition of the equality of opportunity of access to education. The tertiary education assistance scheme will start next year and, as the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has said, it is part of the Government's revolution of access to education. This Bill complements the decision to abolish fees in tertiary and postsecondary technical institutions. Much has been said of this by members on both sides of the House. The argument for fee abolition is built on 2 main points. The first is that university education should be a right and not a privilege to be paid for. Why should university education not be as free as primary and secondary education? There is an obvious double standard when fifth and sixth formers who, like university students, choose to stay on at school are not asked to pay fees. The second plank to the argument is about equality of educational opportunity. Fees, especially the present high fees, keep out able and qualified students who just cannot afford to pay them. 
Students from poorer families, who are grossly unrepresented in the university intake, have a financial as well as an academic barrier. In 1971 the Australian Union of Students estimated that in 1972 a family on an average income of $4,200 would spend 30 per cent of this in sending one child to university. The burden of fees is increasing each year because fees are increasing faster than increases in wages. The Institute of Economic Research at the University of Melbourne estimates that average earnings are increasing at a rate of about 5 per cent per annum compared with the predicted increase in fees last year of 16.6 per cent in New South Wales, 26 per cent in Western Australia and 25 per cent in Queensland. In a paper the Vice-Chancellors Committee commissioned on fee abolition in 1971 the author, the economist  Mr R.  Brennan of the Australian National University, argued that abolition of tertiary fees was not enough. He said that the alternative was to overhaul completely the existing Commonwealth scholarship system and orient it towards providing more tangible assistance to students in genuine financial need and perhaps rather less to students who could well afford to attend even if fees were considerably higher. I believe that in this legislation the Government has overhauled the system. We believe that hardship or poverty should not prevent a student from taking advantage of further studies. 
Will such a scheme achieve the objective of equal access to tertiary education for all students who desire tertiary education? Are we wasting our money at the top level by building on a false and inequitable foundation? The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  said that to abolish fees at the tertiary level would not help those who now missed out on tertiary education but would fill up the institutions with people who were not bright enough to be there and who should not be there. The honourable member does not understand the complex situation that exists. There are already students, some on scholarships and some with wealthy parents, who are at tertiary institutions and who, in the honourable member's terms, should not be there. They go from social or parental pressure rather than from motivation. On the other hand many who are motivated cannot attend because of costs or because they never produced their brilliance as they were never encouraged in their earlier school years to be so motivated. 
Equality of opportunity has been an important social goal which Australian schools have been given the major responsibility for achieving. The policy of provision on a roughly equal basis for all children in schools to which all had access was a considerable advance on policies operating before the introduction of public education. Such an interpretation of equality of opportunity reflects certain assumptions about ability which were current at the time when Australian school systems were formed. It was assumed that each child was born with a certain fixed capacity and that if all external barriers were removed by providing schooling that was accessible, equal and free, students from all walks of life would have an equal opportunity for success. The notion that social levels should reflect differences in innate ability rather than differences in family was part of the democratic revolution which accompanied industrialisation. It was an aspect of the individualistic philosophy of the survival of the fittest through open competition. This I believe is still the policy of the Opposition coalition. But let us look at what has happened. 
It should mean that the approach concentrated on selecting gifted individuals from all social groups. It assumed that roughly the same proportion from each group would have the potential for high scholastic ability. Many Australian studies have examined the situation and they illustrate the general experience. I have a table which shows that students entering 4 professional faculties in 6 Australian universities between 1965 and 1967 illustrate the typical finding. We find that 23.5 per cent of the students in those faculties are the sons and daughters of professionals or 4.25 times the ratio that their fathers bear to the male population in the specified age groups. Nearly half the students entering were the children of professional and managerial fathers, who constitute 17.5 per cent of the population in the age group likely to be their fathers. Industrial workers represent nearly 60 per cent of that population but their children account for only 22.6 per cent of students entering the 4 faculties. 
I remind the Australian Country Party that the sons and daughters of farmers have only one-fifth of the chance of the sons and daughters of the Country Party's coalition partners, largely made up of professionals, managers and clerical and sales people. One would have thought that the Country Party would have spoken out for a better deal for the group it represents. A study of students entering science courses at universities and diploma courses in applied sciences at colleges of advanced education in Australia in 1969 shows a similar trend but to a slightly lesser extent. I ask for leave of the House to incorporate 2 tables in Hansard. 

<graphic href="086131197311062_75_1.jpg"></graphic>

 The only conclusion that can be drawn is that among tertiary students of all kinds the children of manual workers are under-represented and those of higher status families over-represented. To the extent that higher education is financed from taxes it has thus a somewhat regressive effect; poorer people contributing to the cost of education of a group in which the children of richer parents predominate and from which recipients can expect to draw higher than average incomes. I believe that in the United States of America, for example, the Government spends 10 times more on the education of the 10 per cent of its children on the top of the socioeconomic scale than on the 10 per cent at the bottom. This legislation is designed to prevent this sort of injustice occurring in Australia. But the causes can be traced right back to the schools. The process in which the social selectivity of tertiary institutions is as an end point of education goes back into the schools and beyond them, into the families where children are conceived and raised. 
The children of some social groups stay longer at schools than do others. This fact also is widely documented in all countries. Differences in the socio-economic distribution of students entering government and nongovernment secondary schools are a major factor contributing to variations in retention rates. This variation is illustrated by comparisons based on official statistics between retention rates in government and non-government schools throughout Australia as set out in table 3.5 of the Karmel report. I also seek leave to incorporate that table. 
I rise tonight to speak on the subject of local government and regionalism. The Labor Party made 3 specific commitments to local government while it was in Opposition. Firstly, we promised at the 1973 Constitutional Convention that direct representation of local government would be a condition of the Australian Government's participation. Secondly, we promised to amend the Grants Commission Act to authorise that Commission to inquire into and make recommendations on grants to regional groupings of local government. In May we passed the Grants Commission Act 1973. Thirdly, we promised to restructure the Australian Loan Council so that local government representatives from all States could have a voice and a vote on that Council. On 11 October the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  met with the Premiers to resolve this question. It is unfortunate that some of the Premiers would not accept our proposal. Having failed to fulfil our commitment in this way, we are now proposing to hold a referendum on the matter early next year. 
The meeting the Prime Minister had with the Premiers on this vital matter of providing access to increased finance for local government services is a timely reminder of some of the outdated attitudes of the Liberal and Country parties towards this problem. Let me quote from the previous Prime Minister's policy speech before the last election where he dealt with his philosophy on local government. He said: 
We acknowledge the vital role of representative local government in its special, decentralised field. We oppose the stated policies of Labor, which seek to destroy the structure and role of local government by massive amalgamations of areas and  by  centralisation of control in Canberra. Our aim is to preserve and to strengthen the Federal system at each of its three tiers - recognising that local government is essentially the province of the States. 
What a classic statement of ignorance and buck-passing that is! That quotation is the same old dogma that was practised for 23 years and because of which local government is now in such serious financial difficulty. It is the dogma that passes the responsibility for local government to the States. I am not aware of any evidence which shows that the Liberal Party has in any way reformed its outmoded thinking on this vital and pressing matter. 
I said earlier that I wanted to refer .to the question of regionalism. Under the Grants Commission legislation, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is responsible for approving regional groupings of local councils through which submissions to .the Grants Commission must be made. The Department of Urban and Regional Development has completed its initial investigations into regional delineation criteria. Its report was presented to the Parliament recently and has since been sent to every local council in Australia. The appropriate Minister in each State - in my own State it is  Mr Hunt,  the Minister for Local Government and Planning - has been asked for his comments by the Federal Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  The regions recommended by the departments to their Minister are interim regions only. In the Melbourne metropolitan area, 8 sub-regions have been suggested. The report by the Department of Urban and Regional Development sets out some of the problems with delineating the subregions in Melbourne. Specifically, the report states in paragraph 6-4: 
As a recreation and rural area the four most easterly local government areas of Melbourne's outer Eastern Region - Sherbrooke,  Lillydale,  Healesville and Upper Yarra - may need to be identified as an area for  specal  consideration within a strategic plan for Melbourne's East. 
Honourable members will be aware that in the recent Budget, an amount of $3m was set aside for an area improvement program in the western sectors of Melbourne. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development has recently informed us that his Department, through the Cities Commission, has started to prepare a general collection of information on the availability of services within the Melbourne metropolitan area as a whole. 
Clearly, the Department will need to have discussions with a number of Australian Government departments and authorities who will wish to contribute information to such a general collection of data. The study of the Department of Urban and Regional Development may well lead to proposals for similar area improvement programs as is presently envisaged in the western part of Melbourne and in other sub-metropolitan regions. The initial collection of material will provide valuable background for discussion with Australian Government departments, State governments and local governments. 
The 4 municipalities I have mentioned have one feature in common that distinguishes them from the other municipalities with which they have been grouped in the outer eastern metropolitan region. They have large areas of non-ratable land in the form of conservation and recreation areas. The shires of Lillydale and Sherbrooke contain the beautiful Dandenong Ranges that could well be threatened by over-development unless these councils have access to funds other than those derived from increased numbers of ratepayers or increasing rates to an exorbitant degree. The shires of Healesville and Upper Yarra hold the largest water catchment areas for Melbourne and extremely beautiful scenic and recreation areas. At present these shires, largely from their own resources, are providing amenities for all of Melbourne's day and weekend trippers to this place, as well as interstate tourists. The ratepayers of these shires cannot go on bearing the cost. Fortunately there will be assistance in providing recreation and tourist facilities from the Federal Government's initiatives in the Department of Recreation and Tourism. But it is equally important that any arrangements by the Department of Urban and Regional Development take into account the needs of these shires as opposed to other municipalities in the region which can rely on expanding population and increased rates. Large recreation and tourist areas close to metropolises such as Melbourne are a rapidly diminishing asset and these areas must be preserved at all costs. I believe that by the initiatives of this Government and if the needs of this sub-region are recognised or treated as a separate region, these areas of great beauty and rural charm will be preserved. 
These policies of this Government in regard to the third tier of our Federal system are still evolving; they are only a beginning. I am not one to claim that they are the panacea to all local government problems. But let us compare our policies with those of our opponents. Our opponents still speak of centralisation in such cliched terms as 'centralisation' and 'bypassing the States'. It should be quite clear that regionalism is not centralisation. That consultation with each State Minister and the distribution of the report on regions is not bypassing the -States or local government. Those State leaders who are so willing to cry centralism whenever the national Government takes a new initiative can do well to examine their own house. In practical terms, the Liberal governments of New South Wales and Victoria have centralised the economy, the commerce and the administration of their States in their own capital cities to an alarming degree. The present Australian Government is determined to upgrade the resources of local government and make it a more effective partner in our federal system. 
Will the Minister for the Environment and Conservation inform the House whether the Government's decision to offer financial support for a moratorium on the flooding of Lake Pedder has been conveyed to the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Eric  Reece? If the answer is yes, will the Minister inform the House whether  Mr Reece  has yet replied to the Australian Government's offer. 
I rise to speak in the debate on the estimates of the Department of Social Security in relation to the important matter of the Australian health insurance program. Although the proposals received the overwhelming support of the people at the last election the Opposition has allied itself with the extremist elements of the medical profession in an attempt to thwart this popular mandate. These elements, who prostitute the capitalist enterprise system to the detriment of the Australian people and tarnish the reputation of the majority of fine, reputable physicians, have managed to delay the introduction of a comprehensive universal medical insurance scheme since the first attempts by the Bruce-Page Government. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has referred to the motion he moved in this House last week.  His  motion sought to head off the introduction of a vitally needed reform in Australia. He sought indefinitely to postpone the introduction of a universal health insurance scheme .that provided everyone with protection against health costs and that was financed by a 1.35 per cent levy which was based on an individual's capacity to pay. The Government's proposals, as outlined in the White Paper presented to Parliament toy the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  have been endorsed by this popular mandate. Yet the honourable member, with patrician indifference, has sought to deny the popular will on the spurious and specious grounds outlined in his motion of last week. The Minister covered the honourable member's so called reasons for an inquiry during .the debate last week and convincingly demonstrated the falsity of his claims. 
I would like to examine the reasons behind the honourable member's desire to perpetuate the present inefficient system and the actions he has .taken to further this aim.  His  desire must be so strong that it has moved him to take quite outrageous steps to support his point of view, as I will soon show. Firstly, in an earlier debate in this chamber, he claimed that if his Party had remained in government it would have improved its own scheme, which was in any case nearly perfect.  His  Party had 23 years in government to build and improve its scheme and it failed to do so. Any steps it took to change the scheme were taken grudgingly and meekly. It was ready to drop any plan at the hint of disapproval by the 
Australian Medical Association. The only man to stand up to this medico-political pressure - the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  - was quickly deposed when he attempted to reform the system. 
The honourable member for Boothby has generously conceded that the present scheme could be improved to help the needy, provided of course they are prepared to accept the crumbs of charity, but constant attempts to do so by his Government through subsidised benefits failed because of .their complexity. Only 4 out of every 100 persons eligible for assistance actually receive it. So any patching up he intends will be doomed to failure if it merely perpetuates this complexity. That is no comfort or protection for the one million people - the census and statistics survey published in May 1973 confirmed that the figure was one million people - who are not covered against the costs of medical and hospital care. 
It is when .the honourable member starts to do some sums to back up his prejudices that serious distortions and deliberate misrepresentations begin appearing. For example, in his speech in this chamber on 11 October he purported to show that it will cost a person $49 a week to enter a public ward of a public hospital. He obtained this figure by stating the costs of a public ward bed and subtracting a mythical $13 as the maximum Commonwealth contribution towards these costs. He has completely ignored the Government's intention that all Australians who choose to be treated as hospital patients in a public ward of a public hospital will receive treatment absolutely free. It is untrue to claim anything else. Yet he seems to be determined to perpetuate and extend this error outside of Parliament in a deliberate campaign to mislead the public. He has widely circulated throughout his electorate and South Australia a pamphlet that has already caused widespread concern among innocent Australians. These misrepresentations cannot be allowed to go unchecked. The pamphlet is riddled with inaccuracies. I will try to point out as many as I have time for. 
Firstly, it says that women will not be able to choose their own doctor for confinements. The honourable member must know that that is untrue. The Green Paper, in paragraph 3.65, and the White Paper, in paragraph 4.22, state specifically that hospitals should appoint general practitioners to sessional staffs for midwifery only and patients should then be treated at no cost if they choose to be hospital patients. Secondly, the honourable member claims that patients will be able to choose only between a public or private hospital. That is again untrue. Patients will be able to choose the type of care they prefer in a public hospital irrespective of whether they want to pay extra for a semi-private or private room or want to be a private patient with their own doctor treating them for a fee. As the honourable member must know, patients still will be able to choose their own doctor for medical care. Patients will be admitted to hospital by their own doctor or specialist and not ordered to a particular institution, as he has falsely claimed. They will be referred to a specialist by their own doctor, the same as happens now - nothing else. 
Again we have the big lie on free hospital treatment, but now it has become bigger. Perhaps the honourable member believes the old Geobbels dictum of the bigger the lie the more chance one has of getting people to believe what one says. He said that as well as the surcharge tax people will have to pay at least $119 a week for a public ward bed. Remember that it was $49 on 11 October. Tonight we heard that it would be $14 a day or $98 a week. He also added that it would cost $1 89 for a private room. The honourable member explained these figures, as I said earlier, by taking the cost of a hospital bed and subtracting what he thinks the common subsidy will be. What he has not said is that the subsidy is paid .to the hospital via the State hospital authorities. This, plus a further amount, will mean that 50 per cent of the public hospital running costs will now be paid by the Australian Government. In return for this generous financial boost for them the State hospitals will provide a free bed in a standard ward for any Australian who chooses this form of hospital treatment. All treatment and accommodation will be absolutely free. It is wicked - in fact, immoral - for the honourable member to try to persuade people otherwise. Who would have thought that he would stoop to deception in his attempts to stir up opposition to the Government's plans? Yet obviously this is what he has done. 
The rest of the pamphlet is equally unpleasant and inaccurate. It boasts of the Government being forced to backtrack on private insurance and centralised hospital con trol. The honourable member and his unknow cohorts have, as far as he has been able to ascertain, made no submissions to the Minister for Social Security. The fact is that private hospital insurance was always allowed and it was decided also to allow private medical insurance as an example of the Government's desire to allow freedom of choice. Centralised hospital control is just a figment of the honourable member's imagination. The Green Paper and the White Paper both make it clear that hospital arrangements will be characterised by co-operation between the Australian Government and the State hospital authorities. 
Then we had the inevitable cry for support, for money to publicise non-Labor views. In this respect at least the honourable member for Boothby has been honest in stating that it is really just another political trick on behalf of the Liberal Country League. As if it does not already have enough great and powerful financial friends to help it in its fight. The private health insurance funds, for so long a law unto their directors rather than their contributors, see the days of overseas trips and executive aeroplanes going and do not like it. They have been extremely generous in their use of their contributors' money to spread falsehoods about the Government's plans. They are fine bedfellows for the honourable member, as are the overseas owned drug companies which have yielded to the blandishments of the AMA and the General Practitioners Society to contribute to their fighting funds. The AMA and the General Practitioners Society are keen ,to fight a dirty campaign against our scheme and the Minister personally - probably against the better wishes of their silent majority of members. 
In conclusion, I am disappointed by but not really surprised at the smear and fear campaign of the honourable member for Boothby. Some people believe that they have a monopoly on righteousness, virtue, the truth and, until we proved otherwise last December, even government and will use any weapon, however twisted, to prove their point. This shabby little pamphlet was designed to instil fear in people who are unable easily to find out the truth for themselves. The honourable member for Boothby has, by the use of false propaganda, indicated the lengths to which the Opposition will go to fight the proposed health scheme.  His  motion, which was defeated last week, was just the icing on the Opposition's poison campaign cake. Is this pamphlet what the Opposition is really about? If it is not, I challenge the Opposition's spokesman on health and social security and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to repudiate this document on behalf of the Liberal Party of Australia or be equally responsible for the lies it spreads. 
It should be obvious to all honourable members why the new Labor Government has combined the areas of tourism and recreation in one single portfolio. It is the first Federal Government to recognise fully the importance of tourism and recreation as 2 interlocking areas of increasing national responsibility. A growing problem facing Australia and all comparable western industralised countries is the good use of leisure. It is a problem of urban societies. As Australia is the most urbanised nation in the world it is a more pressing problem for us than for any other nation. I congratulate the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  for his wholehearted acceptance of the challenge that this problem presents. 
If the public's money is to be spent wisely and not indiscriminately there must be planning based on thorough research of the state of tourism and recreation. In the first session of this Parliament the Minister presented a report entitled 'The Role, Scope and Development of Recreation in Australia' which was prepared by Professor John Bloomfield of the University of Western Australia. That report set out the general principles which we have adopted for a national recreation program involving not just a few groups in isolated recreational pursuits but the whole of our society. It is not a fixed plan but the basis of a flexible blueprint to be modified, improved and updated by the involved community as factors affecting leisure time change. Man's physical and mental capacities are not oppos ing but complementary factors. That they are complementary factors is summed up by the adage 'all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy'. 
In the largely sedentary working life of the average Australian worker ever increasing demands are made on the mind while physical capacities become atrophied. It has been estimated that by the year 2,000, when working hours give way to leisure time to an increasing degree, people may have 3 or even 4 days to spend on recreational and educational pursuits. With this certain increase in leisure time and with the equally strong desire of man to escape, however temporarily, from a highly industrialised and urbanised routine existence it is our responsibility to recognise, for the first time in the history of Australia, that recreation, sport and travel should constitute an integral part of our life. This report and another I will mention indicate the high degree of recognition this Government has afforded to the problem. It should not be necessary to sharply divide work from leisure or to concentrate leisure into extended weekends or annual holidays. Leisure should be more accessible than that if our resources are to be available to as many as wish to use them and concentrated over-use is not to diminish their utility. The Minister has recognised this. The Government will establish a series of community centres to cater for the young and the old and will design large multi-purpose centres at schools for use by the students and the local community to satisfy the need for cultural, sporting, recreational and artistic activities. This approach will avoid unnecessary duplication of expensive facilities and at the same time will help to break down the barrier that artificially yet effectively divides schools from the general community. 
Success will depend upon the co-operation and initiative of State and local governments. In Victoria the Minister for Sport and Recreation has indicated his support for the concept of community-shared facilities at schools. Preference has been given in the recreation grants flowing from the 1973-74 Budget to projects which involve State or local government funds. In my own electorate of La Trobe, $53,500 has been granted for an indoor family leisure centre at Carrington Park in the city of Knox and $46,250 for a sporting context at Kilsyth. 
On the third day of the current session of Parliament, the Minister for Tourism and 
Recreation tabled his report entitled 'Development of Tourism in Australia'. This report was prepared by the Department with the advice of the Australian Tourist Commission, the Australian National Travel Association and other interested bodies. It is not a bureaucratic document implemented from above. It demonstrates the Government's concern at the role of tourism in the life of Australians as well as as an earner of income from overseas visitors. As leisure time increases, we will need to encourage and provide for travel in Australia of ordinary, average Australians to see and learn more about this country and to enjoy and enrich their increasing leisure time. To make this possible, the Government will make grants, loans, tax concessions and other inducements to ensure that Australian cities and tourist centres are provided with accommodation and amenities of international standard. Australia has much to offer the traveller - snow fields, surfing, fishing, the hot, arid yet life-abundant centre, and countless geographic and scenic wonders. 
Not all of these are far flung places. Some of our greatest assets are close to major cities. I wish to talk about the large forests and national parks that are in close proximity to urban dwellers and are readily accessible to them. These large recreation and tourist areas such as the Dandenong Ranges and the Mornington Peninsula to the south east of Melbourne may however not be available to future residents. They are a rapidly diminishing asset and steps should be taken now to see that they are preserved. The threats to these tourist and recreation areas are overurbanisation, over-utilisation and underdevelopment - a seemingly paradoxical amalgam but in fact a very interrelated one. These threats have been measured by the Department of Tourism and Recreation and by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. The report on tourism examines the place of tourism in Australia in relation to individual demands, community values and our national identity and, most importantly, its relationship to the environment. 
As detailed studies of the demand for different types of recreation activity, including tourism, have not been carried out in Australia, future projections on data developed in the United States of America can give us a guide. We can expect in America at least a fivefold increase in total outdoor recreation by the year 2000. The pattern of demand for these resources will change with increasing affluence and general awareness of the environment. Applying these growth rates to the large recreation areas close to Melbourne, we can expect a fifteen-fold increase in the use of the Dandenong Ranges, the Mornington Peninsula and the Eildon Weir at the end of 30 years, everything else being equal in regard to access and availability of these natural resources. The Department will need to assist tourist attractions that harmonise with these areas. Development should be concentrated on such projects as pioneer settlements, the preservation of historical sites and buildings, fauna sanctuaries and amenities at national parks. The Budget allocated $ 1.75m in 1973-74 to expand a scheme of grants for the development of uniquely Australian tourist attractions. The Dandenong Ranges, the Mornington Peninsula, the Healesville-Warburton shires and the Alexandra district abound in examples that merit Federal Government assistance. 
Strict town planning and regional development is necessary to prevent over-urbanisation from killing the very resources that make these areas great tourist attractions. These areas will be greatly affected by the south east and Lilydale corridors of growth set out in the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works plan for Melbourne's future expansion. For example industry, apart from horticulture, agriculture, forestry and water resource management, should be kept out of the Dandenong Ranges or the beauty of this area will be greatly harmed. Projects qualifying for assistance might include museums, art galleries and theatres with a special Australian character and sanctuaries or parks featuring Australian wildlife or native flora. These projects harmonise with the village atmosphere that is unique to the Blue Mountains and the Dandenong Ranges. 
The greatest asset of these areas is that urban dwellers do not need to travel far to enjoy them. But careful management of parks and other tourist attractions will be necessary to prevent over-utilisation or destruction. I believe the report of the Ayers RockMount Olga National Park tabled by the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation of this House carries many lessons for the management of these areas close to Melbourne. I congratulate the Minister for making it a condition for grants that the environmental impact of the project must be considered in formulating proposals for assistance and, if the impact is likely to be significant, demanding that an environmental impact statement be prepared. I congratulate the Minister for his work which makes, despite inadequate funds, an important contribution to the nation's economic and social wellbeing through the more enjoyable use of our everincreasing leisure time. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to objections raised recently by spokesmen against the Government's health insurance program about a Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics survey on health benefits cover which the Minister used. Has the Minister had an opportunity to consider those objections? Would he care to modify his figures, and would he care to comment? 
Two recent investigations of Australian schools have exposed serious deficiencies in our education system. Some years ago, after a nationwide needs survey, the States sought action by the national Government to redress the deficiencies that produced inequitable attainment in education. Primary school libraries were generally poor, inadequate or non-existent. The handicapped, migrant children and isolated children received little or no help to overcome their impossible burdens. Teachers lost thousands of man hours because they were forced to spend time on clerical and ancillary tasks. Playgrounds, sporting facilities and gymnasium equipment were as rare as the proverbial hen's teeth. All this and more was confirmed by the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. But this time the study went further than the needs of government schools, and included nongovernment schools. 
The Karmel Committee concluded that at many schools teaching resources were below standard for an adequate education; lack of facilities demonstrated an indifference towards and conditions, attitudes and organisation had equality of opportunity to access to education; undermined and constricted the potential relationships between pupils and teachers, parents and the staff, and between school and the community. 
This Bill will put into effect the recommendations of the Karmel Committee so that we can start eliminating the deficiencies, equalising the equality of access to education for all children and compensating for handicaps suffered by children because of physical, social, mental, sexual or geographic factors. 
The honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  said that only a few schools had been sampled. Throughout my speech I will refer to yet another recent survey to illustrate the Government's aims and the present deficiencies existing - a study carried out by 2 survey groups, under my supervision, in my electorate of La Trobe. I make no apologies for being parochial. I am sure that the situation could be repeated in any other electorate represented by a member of this House. Questionnaires were sent to primary, secondary, government and non-government principals seeking information on current resources enjoyed, expected increases in enrolments and government grants, and their estimated needs if they were to provide an adequate education. The survey was carried out in February and March this year, and detailed replies were received from 35 primary government and non-government schools and 1 1 secondary schools, both government and non-government. A promise of confidentiality prevents me from naming the schools. 
Undoubtedly more replies would have been received, but our efforts were somewhat frustrated by the State Liberal member for Scoresby,  Mr Geoff  Hayes, who wrote a letter to the Advisory Councils and principals encouraging schools in his electorate not to participate in the survey. This was at the time of a pre-election campaign. I found that sort of action typical of what is happening in this House today. We have heard the disguised opposition from honourable members opposite who wish to gloss over the inefficiencies and the deficiencies that they have upheld over the years. Despite the assurances of their general support - except for their attitude to clause 66 - I suspect their motives. They wish to hide their mistakes. They wish to sweep under the carpet the injustices they have created over the last 23 years. They wish to 'perpetuate inequality in education. Their amendments are nothing more than a face-saving device. For this Government the die is cast. It has accepted the findings of the Karmel Committee with one minor exception. It has the backing of the Australian people and it will correct the deficiencies in the present education system. 
All schools in La Trobe will receive increased grants and more assistance over the next 2 years than they would have received before. If this Bill is frustrated or delayed here or in another place, the Opposition will earn the wrath of over 75,000 electors in La Trobe. All parents will be expecting a better deal for their children next year, and they must not be disappointed. In 1974-75 a total of $694m will be available to all schools, including $466m for government schools and almost $200m for the non-government sector. All of this is in addition to what the States will spend from their own resources. 
Let us consider what the people will receive for their tax money. For the first time, grants will be available for libraries in primary schools, and extra funds will be available for secondary school libraries. Of the 30 primary schools in the La Trobe survey, only 6 had libraries, 17 did not, and 7 failed to indicate. None of the non-government primary schools has a library. One government secondary school does not have a library nor do 2 out of the 3 non-government secondary schools. The schools without libraries also lack science blocks, whereas all other schools mentioned have them. The provision of library facilities is, as the Karmel report indicated, one of the most effective means of improving the quality of education by encouraging an individual approach to learning. We are spending over $40m to achieve this aim. Bricks and mortar, print and bindings, are only half the story. Of those library-equipped secondary schools, 6 out of 8 claim to have insufficient trained library staff, 4 claim that their libraries are not to Commonwealth standard and only one claims to have sufficient books and equipment. The amount of $3.8m will be appropriated to provide for training of teacher librarians. 
General building grants are to be provided in addition to the sums flowing from the 1972 
Act. The additional grants for government schools will be for replacing and upgrading the quality of existing school buildings. The La Trobe survey showed that most government secondary schools had many classes with over 30 to 35 pupils in the first 4 years and with a slightly lesser number in the final 2 years. This was due to lack of teachers and classrooms, although one school avoided this by prudent juggling and internal re-organisation. Most were using a number of unsuitable but essential temporary portable classrooms that have become noted for their permanent siting. Every non-government school indicated oversize classes and an inadequate number of classrooms. Grants in this Bill will also be used for the replacement and upgrading of buildings, but up to 50 per cent may be provided for new pupil placings in non-government schools. Our general building grants will total $ 117.7m. 
I refer now to the human element in schoolingteachers and students. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table from the La Trobe survey showing the situation of teaching staff in the secondary schools. 
The soaring cost ofland and the question of how it is made available are among the most obvious of today's urban problems. The cost of land has increased faster than the average rate of inflation in the past few years and is continuing to grow at an accelerating rate. According to the Commonwealth Institute of Valuers survey published only last month the value of land in Melbourne is likely to increase at a rate as high as 60 per cent in the next 12 months. The survey, showing inner suburban land price increases of up to 75 per cent, indicated that Melbourne was rivalling Sydney in the real estate price spiral. In the Waverley municipality, about 15 miles east of central Melbourne, land that a year ago sold for $22,000 an acre is now selling for $40,000 an acre. A survey of 40 Melbourne municipalities by the Institute showed that prices had increased by up to 75 per cent in Carlton, parts of Fitzroy and South Melbourne - all inner suburbs - in the 12 months ending in April this year. 
At these rates of price increase young couples are forced to the outer fringes of Melbourne, but there the scene is worse. Outer Melbourne areas in an arc from Bulla extending through to Eltham and Lilydale to Mornington and Hastings have had land price increases varying from 45 per cent to 55 per cent. The cost of a building block in Melbourne's outer eastern suburbs is rising by an average of $50 a week, according to a survey carried out by Knox City Council and published in May this year. In Knox, which is in my electorate of La Trobe and in one of the fastest growing suburban areas, the average land price increase for the 12 months to February 1973 was 62.63 per cent. Prices have gone mad; they have gone up even faster in the past 6 months. The Knox survey is the most accurate one yet taken on rising land prices. It is based on sale returns lodged with the Knox building department. The increases included 50 per cent at Wantirna, 63 per cent at Boronia, 66 per cent at the Mountain Gate estate, and 55 per cent at Johnson Park estate in Fern Tree Gully. 
All of this land is situated between 15 and 20 miles from the General Post Office, unsewered but with made roads and all other services. Sewered blocks in the area have just been released and are selling at between $9000 and $11,000 a block. Blocks on unmade roads jumped 59 per cent in price from $2900 to $4600. Within the next few years owners will have to meet a council road making bill. These rises are alarming, even frightening, and can be attributed mainly to the lack of supply of residential land. Unless a land policy is developed it will be 18 months to 2 years before we see any substantial improvement in the land shortage and a slow down in price increases. At present Melbourne has a population of 2.5 million and it is increasing at the rate of 50,000 a year. To stop the growth of Melbourne it would be necessary to build the equivalent of 15 Canberras within Victoria. Syphoning off the increase in population from big cities is not effective in restricting growth, as there will always be an increase in population in these areas. It is that problem which unites these Bills in this cognate debate. 
Large rises in the price of land, caused by speculation, are socially undesirable and must be overcome. First, citizens with similar interests and needs for obtaining land should have equal opportunities to do so. At present high and rapidly inflating land prices produce a redistribution of wealth in the community away from tenants of houses and buyers - the have-nots - to existing land owners - very much the haves. This redistribution merely exaggerates the inequalities that exist in our society. Secondly, as I have indicated, the price of land can rise as much as $50 in a week, or $2,500 in a year. This is the amount of extra saving that must be put aside by the average salary earner. As long as the rate of inflation in the price of land and houses exceeds the general rate of inflation such a task is impossible. While land prices are not kept in check prospective home buyers on low or moderate incomes are penalised. Thirdly, the present system, provides unearned windfall profits for those already owning excess tracts of land. 
The Opposition is always quick to criticise the social welfare system Labor has developed and the few so-called bludgers who receive unemployment or sickness benefit. They call loudly for a fair day's work for a fair day's pay but they are silent in relation to unearned profits from land sales. To me it is immoral that large profits should be enjoyed by land holders who receive this sort of increment without lifting a hand to earn it. I should like to give some examples of sales and potential sales of land in the city of Knox in Victoria. The first example relates to 294 acres purchased at nominal price before the area was rezoned urban. In 1972 40 acres were sold to land developers for $260,000. The remaining 254 acres is estimated to be worth almost $2m. 
Recently 120 acres in Knox were sold for $1.8m. A market gardener who profited, from rezoning bought 333 acres 10 years ago for about $200 an acre. He could now get $10,000 an acre, giving him a gross return of about $3m. In a recent sale another 60 acres realised $1.5m. The vendors still hold 44 acres, estimated to be worth more than $lm. 
A well known bookmaker owns 80 acres in an industrial zone. Recently 21 acres were sold for $400,000. His present holdings plus the profits from that sale will make him a millionaire. Industrial land covering an area of 244 acres is valued at $2.5m and a recent sale of only 45 acres realised approximately $333,000. Vendors are entitled to the interest due on their original investment as they could have earned that, plus the real value maintained by a factor equal to the general rate of inflation. This is a price stabilisation formula but profits over and above that are gained at the expense of future home buyers. This Government cannot condone such unearned increments and capital gains. Many of the inequities and inefficiencies of the newer areas of cities are the direct result of growth on a small unco-ordinated scale resulting from lack of large scale finance and an inability of public developers to work with broad acres. Rezoning of land to cater for varied community uses, from low density land use to higher land use patterns, causes the price to rise. Speculative demand is thus concentrated in areas where development is planned. Private developers geared for maximising profit and not community benefit cannot ensure proper distribution of urban amenities. This can be achieved only through a public development corporation. 
Let us examine why land prices are rising so sharply and what are the remedies to the problem so that we might bring about stabilisation in land prices. There is a trend towards more people living in urban areas. The percentage of the population living in rural areas as pointed out by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  decreased from 32 per cent in 1947 to 14.7 per cent in 1970 - less than half. There is pressure on available blocks for residential and income earning purposes. There is a shortfall of land zoned residential on the fringes of cities and in growth centres. About 2,000 new homes are built each year in the city of Knox but about 1000 blocks are held by speculators and investors and 1400 blocks by people waiting to build a home. Little if any broad acre land is zoned residential and available for immediate subdivision. Seven years ago there were 11,500 vacant building blocks in Knox. This has been cut to 4,400, of which only 2,000 are available. A further 6,000 blocks will become available if rezoning occurs. How can we equalise the supply and demand for land so that prices stabilise? Solutions offered are many. For example, the  chairman  of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works listed suggestions for price control in an article published in the 'Age' on 28 August last. He listed the following points. 
Legislation to compel people to market land which is ripe for development. 
Consideration given to levying a holding charge on people who withhold land. 
Adequate finance for servicing authorities. 
Amendment to the Sale of Land Act to allow stage release of new allotments. 
A speed-up at all levels of council, board and Government procedures to reduce delays. 
Agreement by municipalities on uniform requirements for sub-division. 
Availability of money to developers at reasonable interest rates. 
Legislation requiring land owners to contribute to common services so that the cost is spread equally. 
Greater co-operation by land developers with authorities. 
The final approach adopted by this Government will need to recognise that more serviced land must be made available to satisfy the demand, that land prices are contained so that all who need the land are not denied it merely because of impecunious circumstances or by earning average incomes, and that a comprehensive view must be taken of land use leading to the development of urban amenities. Unless the adopted policy satisfies these three elements it will fall short of desirable measures. How do the suggested policies face up to these criteria? Holding charges, levies, capital gains taxes and so on can all be passed on to the buyer. This denies the availability of land to low income groups. Legislation which is designed to compel people to sell 'and staged releases of new allotments do not avoid price increases, and such legislation has not proved easy to implement. Ad hoc rezoning is not complementary to good town planning and creates windfall profits for land owners. The price of land is not stabilised. The availability of money at low interest rates to developers, private and public, adequate finance for servicing authorities and the sharing of service costs by the community through progressive taxation are all desirable, but they need to be part of a co-ordinated program instituted by a Federal government. 
Most of the remaining measures can be achieved by the national Government entering the field of urban and regional development, in co-operation with the States. This is the purpose of the 5 Bills. If land problems are to be solved, consultation between the various levels of government will be essential. The chief method by which the Government currently hopes more serviced land will be made available, land prices contained, land use recognised and State co-operation achieved is through the establishment of land commissions in the States. "The Australian Government has proposed that each State should establish a land commission or an equivalent body which, with the help of Australian Government finance, would acquire large tracts of land needed for urban development. The commissions would be expected to release the land, fully serviced, as needed. The eventual establishment of large banks of land should help solve the problem of scarcity. The establishment of land commissions, which would be State agencies, controlled and managed by the States, would make for a more efficient use of land. By having large tracts of land needed for urban development under the control of the States, a comprehensive approach to investment in urban facilities by both the public and private sector would be made easier. This approach is necessary for the efficient use of both land and resources, which will necessitate long term planning and co-ordination of investment. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  is concerned that action will be taken on the fringes of existing large metropolises for urban planning and in inner suburbs for urban renewal. He need not be so concerned. The land commissions, or their equivalents, would aim initially at buying land required for urban development in areas designated by the States. This would include land on the fringes of metropolitan areas, such as Knox, as well as land required for regional centres and new cities. Their major objective will be to make land available for residential purposes and for other public purposes such as health, education, recreation and transport. The commissions would hold and control the land they acquire, but where large tracts are involved a development corporation would have the responsibility to develop. The corporation or, in the case of small areas of land, the commissions may let contracts to private developers for the servicing and developing of the land. In this way the skills of both the public and the private sector would be used in the operation of the land commission program. 
In April the Australian Government announced the establishment of a commission of inquiry into land tenures under the  chairman  ship of  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell. The Leader of the Opposition is concerned about future land tenure of acquired land after development. He said that the Opposition is adamant that the form of tenure must be freehold. We are not so presumptive as to state categorically just what form tenure should take. The precise form of the tenure system by which land controlled by the commissions would be made available to the public would differ from State to State. Details of the applicable tenure would not be settled until the commission of inquiry into land tenure had reported, but the Australian Government has said that public equity in land is necessary for effective co-ordination of development and also to prevent individuals from receiving massive profits as the result of public decisions to acquire and develop land with public money. 
We are not alone in this wish. During recent hearings held by the National Estate Inquiry in Melbourne, the Westernport Regional Planning Authority appealed to the Federal Government to acquire substantial areas of Mornington Peninsula and Phillip Island. The Authority said that its present planning powers and finances were inadequate to protect Westernport against escalating pressures for undesirable change. It said that these pressures - the demand for hobby farms, holiday houses, rural residential allotments and fringe urban activities - were now threatening places of national significance in Westernport. The Authority also said that from experience in our type of democratic society, planning control can arrest the rate of such development but cannot prevent it when land is in private ownership. Public equity in land is necessary if land use is to be regulated by advanced and community oriented town planning and not allowed to degenerate through ad hoc decisions resulting from indiscriminate purchasing of land and profit motivated pressures to rezone different areas. 
Land price stabilisation legislation is seen by the Australian Government as an essential part of the land commission project. It is aimed at ensuring that land does not inflate in value merely because it has been chosen for acquisition for urban development. Such inflation could make the land so costly that the States would be unable to continue their plans to acquire the land and develop the area. Although legislation would differ to suit each State's individual requirements, it is expected that where it is introduced it would follow general principles. Such legislation would stabilise the prices to be paid for the land to be acquired at the market value at the date set out in the initial proclamation of the study area, plus a value increase factor to allow for normal increase in land values, but excluding any increase principally arising from the identification of an area as a growth area. A capital cost adjustment would also be made for improvements to the land. The value increase factor and the adjustments for improvements would ensure that land owners, while they would be prevented from making windfall profits, would not lose in real money terms if their land is marked for acquisition. 
Fair enough, as the honourable member for Diamond Valley says. Safeguards incorporated into the legislation would allow rapid acquisition in hardship cases, so giving the legislation flexibility. Such land stabilisation cannot be described as price freezing. It allows for legitimate increments in earnings on land sales. It avoids the disadvantages of land price freezes such as the creation of a black market, the devaluation of property as inflation generally leaves real value of land behind and the creation of under-the-counter key money, often amounting to $2,000 to $3,000, on the side. Time prevents me from saying more. I congratulate the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  on the advances that he has made towards conquering our urban and regional problems. There are no panaceas and no immediate solutions, but these programs, backed by $30m of the current Budget's funds, will make a great start for tomorrow's urban dwellers, particularly in land price stabilisation. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware that one of Australia's rarest birds - a native of Victoria and the only bird exclusive to that State - the heLmeted honey eater, is threatened with extinction unless urgent action is taken to reverse the decline in its numbers? Is he aware that the area to which this bird is restricted is at Yellingbo about 65 km east of Melbourne in the Dandenong Ranges and that this land is threatened by encroaching urbanisation and by the clearing of land? Can he inform this House what action this Government is taking to preserve this unique species of bird life and whether an environmental impact statement will be prepared by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works which intends to lay a pipeline through this area in Yellingbo? 
As the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  has said, this debate on the Address-in-Reply gives the opportunity to review the Government's program and preview the coming year, and an opportunity for the Opposition to get stuck into the Government. But it has also been said that a government is only as good as its opposition. Therefore it might be more profitable for me to develop, during my contribution to this debate, a theme that appraises both the Government's program and the quality of the Opposition and its contribution to the quality of government. It is just over 12 months since I delivered my maiden speech in this House. I said then: 
The speech of the Governor-General captures the seriousness of the crisis - a threat to the quality of life that should be due to all Australians - and meets it head on with a 3-year program designed to achieve basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society. 
After the first 12 months I can review and assess the Government's progress towards that worthy aim. It is hard to recall a more wide ranging and reforming program that has come before the Parliament. Some 223 Bills passed both Houses even though the Government lacked a majority in the Senate. Some of its important policies, given a strong mandate by the people, were frustrated by hostility in another place. Thirteen Bills have already been deferred or rejected by that body. 
There are some who say that the Government has attempted too much too quickly. This feeling has no doubt arisen because the new Government is contrasted directly with the slow, do - as - little - to - change - thingsaspossible style of the previous Liberal Government. Its behaviour was to react to circumstances and to avoid decisions, and rarely did it initiate urgent reforms or ask the public to give it a mandate for certain actions. The people were never asked to consider the purchase of the Fill, our commitment in Vietnam or the very important trade agreement with Japan in the 1960s. On the other hand, the people knew and endorsed the Labor Party's whole program in the 1972 election and they want results. This is why we have been forced to move as quickly as we can. Politicians have never been expected to deliver all their promises yet we are criticised by the the Opposition for not achieving everything in 12 months. The Opposition opposed the major and most urgent reforms. 
To stick to the promises to the letter would rob the Government of flexibility. I believe that, given our limited power, we have honoured more of our promises than would normally have been expected. But the obstruction in another place that we are facing is not the only barrier to carrying out the people's program. As well as facing a hostile Senate and 3 unco-operative State governments in the eastern States, this Government has received organised opposition from those who benefited from the situation under the conservative coalition. These people would like to see many injustices continue to their advantage and to the disadvantage of the average citizen. Massive campaigns have been waged by an ' organised minority of doctors, the health funds, industrial groups, education lobbies and others in such fields as tariffs, aid for wealthy schools, industrial relations and health. 
While we are mentioning the chemists I might add that the industrial pharmaceutical companies, of which 97 per cent are overseas owned, have headed one of the organised lobbies against bringing in the most urgently needed health reforms in this country. Compared with the Government's innovative and constructive program to date, and that which is to come during this session, let us consider what the Opposition promises. I can state it in 4 words: Opposition for opposition's sake. Let us look at the notices given for matters to be discussed on General Business day. The first one is from the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He gave notice that he would move: 
That this House deplores the actions of the Government in pursuing policies which are undermining the economic stability of the Australian economy. . . . 
A couple of weeks later he proposes to move to condemn the Government for allowing a run down in the defence services and defence capacity of Australia. These things have been rare in this House. Not once have we heard one constructive piece of criticism or one remedial suggestion for the alleged deficiencies in the program. The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)-  - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no point of order involved. I suggest that the House comes to order. I could reply to the honourable member but I suggest that the House comes to order and the honourable member for La Trobe be allowed to make his speech in silence. 
I was referring to the notice given. (Quorum formed.) There is only a handful of Liberals in the House. The coalition is supported by its lesser counterpart, the Country Party. I was referring to the notices given for matters to be discussed on General Business days by the honourable member for Petrie. He intends to condemn the Government for discouraging and impeding home ownership by young Australians, for misusing public moneys for party propaganda, and for proliferating statutory boards and commissions thereby diluting the principle of parliamentary responsibility. These things have been raised already, and once again constructive criticism and suggestions for remedial action have failed to come forth from the Opposition. 
Let us consider the first attack put up by the honourable member for Petrie. What is the position in regard to prospective home ownership? The total Government provision for housing has gone up by 34 per cent this year - that is, one-third again - to nearly $500m. The first step in office taken by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  was to give an extra $6.5m to the States to help overcome an acute housing shortage. A new Housing Agreement was negotiated with the States early last year to ensure that the size and distribution of housing funds would reflect national needs. There were no pork barrel politics in that. At least 70 per cent of public funds will be used to build homes for rent - the main area of social and economic need. A later analysis of the housing situation was outlined by the Minister for Housing and Construction when in answer to a question without notice a few days ago he said this: 
The fact of the matter is that housing approvals in 1973 were of a very high order. It is interesting to note that even last January, although the approvals were 8 per cent below the December figures, when this is seasonally adjusted the approvals had actually increased by 2 per cent. So a considerable degree of housing construction is taking place in Australia. 
He went on: 
In the building industry we have a very serious liquidity demand problem which has been brought about-- 
Honourable members should listen to this by the recklessness of the previous Government. 
The Minister went on to say: 
Surely they were not unconscious of the fact that they were creating a very serious crisis in the housing industry, when in a 2-year period they allowed the money flowing from banks, building societiesand insurance companies to increase by 300 per cent without a comparable increase in the supply of materials or the size of the work force. 
It seems to me that honourable members opposite never did realise that these fringe banking institutions would need to come under control if any responsible national government with national economic responsibilities and a recognition of them were to bring the full liquidity of the money supply under control. The Minister for Housing and Construction went on to say:  . . it is essential to have a relationship between materials, manpower and money, we can understand the reasons they have brought the mess to this country which the present Government is trying to resolve ... for the first time in Australia's history we are now in the process of setting up an indicative planning authority- 
Planning is a nasty word to the Opposition - which will determine the housing requirements of the people and seek to bring in its wake a proper supply- 
And a proper balance - of money, manpower and materials. 
For some time we have had the situation of too much money competing for the available materials and labour, forcing up building costs, in some cases by more than $130 a week. Shortages of both labour and materials are causing delays in the completion of homes under construction - another reason for rising costs. The Government has taken the pressure off demand but could do so only by making it more difficult in the short term to borrow money. My personal view is that if predictions of a slacker economy through a drop in demand here and overseas come true this year, 
I would be correct in saying that we would see an easing of housing loan interest rates in this country and, as a result, cheaper housing. 
We regret that higher interest rates and reductions in lending have led to some prospective home buyers being refused bank finance. The home savings grants scheme, which was supposed to help the young people by providing up to $750 towards the purchase of their first home but which used to end up in the builders' pockets and did not ease the burden of paying off a home, is to be phased out over 3 years and replaced by a better scheme which allows interest payments on a house to be tax deductible according to a scale that favours low income earners. I said that the tactics or, more likely, the whole philosophy of the Opposition was opposition for opposition's sake. Members opposite have opposed any proposal put forward by this Government regardless of its merits. However, we should have expected this. They set their standards last year. On several occasions the Opposition raised for discussion matters of public importance. In these debates on defence, foreign affairs and world oil supplies the Opposition showed its weakness of not having reviewed its outdated policies which were rejected overwhelmingly by the people at the last election. 
In the debates on the Government's monetary policies, industrial disputes, policies to curb inflation and the power strike in New South Wales, the Opposition showed how out of touch with events and responsibility it was when not backed by the expertise and the nursing of the Public Service. This was despite the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  making research facilities and departments availabled to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  as part of our policy of open government. Not once in the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government's 23 years in office was this democratic offer extended to the Australian Labor Party. Furthermore, not once in debates, public or parliamentary, has the Opposition been able to offer reasonable, practicable alternatives to the policies they have criticised. Instead, they rely heavily on the practice of repeating a string of unsubstantial accusations so often that they hope they will be believed. They have relished the luxury of irresponsibility in Opposition. And this year they go on their merry way. Members opposite did not have one constructive thing to say when we debated such things as the Post Office or the referenda that will be put to the people. 
In looking for an explanation of the lack of ideas and constructive criticism, perhaps we need go no further than to note that the Opposition is leaderless. The honourable member for Bruce, who ds Leader of the Opposition, said in this debate: 
The Prime Minister has more than once put his job on the line. 
I contend that the boot is on the other foot, but if the honourable member for Bruce were to put his job on the line, I am sure that the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would be in like a shot to take it over. Let us examine the amendment moved by the Opposition in this debate. First of all, the Opposition says that the Government has: 
Created an intolerably high level of inflation and has taken no effective steps to stop it. 
What an irresponsible accusation and apportionment of blame regarding the cause of inflation in this country. What ignorance as to the economics of such a complex matter as inflation. The truth is that in the Government's first year its overriding consideration has been to contain and reduce - as far as the national Government can with its powers under the Constitution and its lack of numbers in the other place - the inflationary pressures in the economy. 
We have established a Prices Justification Tribunal and a Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices. To the consternation of the Australian Country Party, we have twice revalued the Australian dollar. We have reduced tariffs by 25 per cent across the board to make imports cheaper for the farmer and to ease domestic demand pressures. We have mopped up liquidity and checked capital inflow through various fiscal and monetary policies. We have called a successful representative Industrial Peace Conference to consider ways of securing greater industrial peace and stability. We have introduced certain price controls in the Australian Capital Territory as an example to the States and to protect the community. There is evidence that these policies are beginning to work. These are the steps we have taken. 
But we have no intention of rushing in with a heavy-handed approach and flattening out the economy with damaging recessionary policies which hit the family man hardest. Honourable members opposite talk about the family man. 
But when it comes to offsetting inflation their only answer is the counter-balance or trade-off of unemployment. That hits the unskilled, the low income earner and the' family man first. So, in spite of urging by the. Opposition to do so, we will not rush in , with the heavyhanded approach of unemployment. Just as there has been a time lag after the reckless, easy money policies of . trie Liberals in late 1972  -  they are now having their major effect - so there will be a lag between our measures and their effect. I ask honourable members to give them time. I will admit that the inflation rate during 1973 was . a disappointing 13.2 per cent. But it would have been much higher if we had not acted as we did. We do not want imaginary figures, something off the tops of honourable members' abacus minds. We want the facts. The inflation rate probably would have reached the record levels of 20 per cent and 23 per cent achieved by the previous coalition Government in its first years of office. But there are no solutions from honourable members opposite. They are silent on their secret weapon - widespread unemployment. 
I would have liked to raise many things tonight to answer the charge from honourable members opposite that the Government is creating social inequities and lack of confidence. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  in this debate delivered the throwaway line 'Australia has a Government which has alienated almost every significant group in the community'. We have a chance to test that statement. The people have a chance to test that statement and to show how wrong the honourable member is. They will have their chance at the Senate election later this year. The Leader of the Opposition wants an election. But when he talks to his coalition party members they say no.  His  friends on the other side, particularly in the Country Party do not want an election. But they have one on their plate. It is coming soon enough. The Senate election will not come fast enough for us, so that we can get on with the job which in 1972 we were asked to do. There are essential matters which the Opposition must not be allowed to obstruct, such as health, hospitals and so on. But the people can decide how they view the Government; the people can decide what they think of the performance of the Opposition. It's time all right; it's time to let the people decide. 
Is the Minister for Education aware of the statement which appeared in the Victorian Teachers Union journal made by the Director-General of the Public Works Department that the Victorian Education Department was wasting money on a crazy school building policy, had panicked and was building too many schools and that the school maintenance program was years behind what it ought to be? Allowing for the limitations placed on the building of schools by the shortages of materials and labour, can the Minister assure the House that there is sufficient accountability by the States to ensure that the increased funds flowing from the Karmel report will be used efficiently so as to result in better schools for primary and secondary school children and a gradual but certain end to the portable madness that has swept Victoria as a solution to the problem of accommodating the increasing numbers of school children, particularly in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne? 
Listening to some of the honourable members on the other side of the chamber one would think that the only interest in this debate is the proposal's economic impact on Australia. I wish to raise other aspects tonight, namely, the impact on the environment of the increased number of tourists, both those circulating in Australia, and, if we are successful, those coming from overseas. In introducing the Australian Tourist Commission Bill the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  pointed to the expanding travel gap which was $52m in 1968, $176m in 1972, and had expanded to $220m last year - the travel gap being, of course, the money spent by Australian travellers overseas as compared with the income generated by overseas travellers in Australia. He quite rightly pointed out that this expanding gap can be partly explained by exchange variation, the termination at the end of December 1971 of the United States Services rest and recreation leave, and the uncompetitive fare situation. This is another aspect which has been belaboured in this debate. The Minister might also have added that Australia is off the beaten track for parcel tours. But the point is: How can we better this position without stopping our people from going overseas and spending Australian currency abroad? 
Obviously we can do this by promoting travel inside Australia so that Australians may learn about their own country and its heritage. We should make this internal travel more' attractive so that Australians can see and learn more about their own country. The amendments to the principal Act that are contained in the Bill are to make sure that the Australian Tourist Commission enters into the domestic field which in the past has been left to State governments, to Territory administrations and to the Australian National Travel Association and, of course, the various sectors that make up the travel industry, but as the Minister said, more in this area can be done. Statistics have been rather lean in this debate. It is no wonder, because it is such a young industry - 20 years - and is showing a fair degree of expansion. Statistics on the industry are very hard to come by but I have been able to unearth some from the Australian National Travel Association itself, which provided these figures. 
In 1972 the domestic tourism figure was put at $2,400m with an annual growth rate of about 10 per cent. This figure is made up of the following components: Domestic airlines, $198m or 7.5 per cent; railways, $58m or 2.2 per cent; bus and coach services, $10 or 0.4 per cent; private motoring, a whacking great $l,769m or 67 per cent, or more than two-thirds of the total amount; and accommodation, meals and other sundry services, $605m or 22.9 per cent. In 1972, $139m was spent by overseas travellers in Australia; whereas, as I mentioned before, Australian travellers spent $331m overseas. So we can see that the companion Bill which is being debated in this cognate debate is designed to strengthen the various components in this sector so that we can further increase the amount of travel in this country. 
I wish now to turn to the role of tourism in the economy which will be generated through increased domestic tourism. To become an industry, of course, tourism must be within the reach of ordinary people and not just of those we can describe as rich or wealthy or with many hours to spend. Tourism is the process of travel and the use of goods and services en route and at the destination. It takes into acount the transport operators, accommodation houses, retailers, restauranteurs, purveyors and, of course, the various government groups at local government, State government and Australian government levels. So we can see that the contribution to the economy is not just a matter of gaps - surpluses or deficits - because tourism gives impetus to decentralised activities. If we can create travel to the remoter parts of Australia away from the cities not only to escape the increasing tensions of our cities and of suburban living, then we support a whole range of industries - main industries and supporting industries - in decentralised areas. 
The protection of the environment has not been mentioned yet. I will bring out shortly the interrelationship between the protection of the environment and the supporting industry, namely, tourism. They are very much interrelated and interdependent and should be brought closer together. Of course, any economist can tell us that even a domestic economy, if expanded, has an accelerating effect on the growth of our economy via the multiple effect. Tourism is all these things. But, above all, tourism is people - Australian people and people who wish to know about Australia. Unless a national tourism plan seeks, above all else, to respond to the needs and aspirations of Australians - discerning Australians seeking to derive maximum benefit from increasing leisure time - it is doomed to failure. If, however, it achieves this basic objective, it also will achieve its economic and related aims and, simultaneously, it will respond to the needs and aspirations of international visitors. 
There is a great need for those involved in tourism and conservation to work more closely together. We must proceed in concert, not in conflict. Protests on either side will get nowhere, whereas reasoned discussions will. There is a growing concern among both parties concerned. Conservation is no longer the lone cry of a few. It is not long since tourism as we understand it today was the privileged pursuit of the affluent few. Today, conservation is the subject of an increasing groundswell of public, political and business support. As for tourism, increasing technology - particularly in the aviation area - longer holidays, higher incomes, better education and the accelerating affluence of the developing countries mean that mass travel is now a fact of national and international life. 
There is an increasing pre-occupation with what I describe as participatory tourism - a genuine interest in other life styles, a concern not only to see but also to understand and to appreciate different peoples, different places and natural phenomena. However, this does not mean that the social and environmental problems of mass travel will solve themselves. On the contrary, sound and imaginative planning will be required if tourist development is to be consistent with the aims of the conservationists. Otherwise, as one authority has speculated, tourism could truly be found to harbour within itself the seeds of its own destruction. 
Conservation is the wisest possible use, over a long term, of all our national resources for the benefit of man and his interdependent environment. It is also the enrichment and elevation of human experiences. Tourism is one of those experiences. But it will not be enjoyed by future generations if over-use by uncontrolled and increasing tourist numbers destroy it. Planned conservation, on the other hand, will preserve the goal of tourists. In other words, tourism and its earnings could well be the rationale for strong conservation policies. This accelerating groundswell of opinion which signals the folly of environmental despoliation, combined with the change that has led to leisure and recreation no longer being the preserve of the few, has led to the recognition that the factor of socio-economic interdependence must be central to the development of a balanced and sensitive national tourism plan. 
The pace and nature of social change are such that the absence of proper planning on a national basis must presuppose ad hocism rampant. This, in turn, means people pollution, environmental despoliation, economic adversity and the soiling, if not the destruction, of the fabric of life in important parts of Australia. It means, in effect, that we will be running the very real risk of destroying those characteristics - tangible and intangible - which entice Australian and overseas visitors to travel the country in the first place. One need go no further than to see the possible destruction by increased tourist numbers on the Great Barrier Reef, in the Ayers RockMount Olga National Park and in large national parks very close to Australian metropolises which are the last refuges from the busy suburban life. 
In conclusion, I would like to say that galloping technology and demand mean that the task is an urgent one. An increasingly mobile generation is impatient for a recreational product which is developed with the kind of sensitivity and imagination which will permit it to rediscover its heritage and to adjust, with minimal discomfort, to the future. These 2 Bills indicate not only that we wish to close the widening gap in international earnings or balance of payments in the tourist sector but also that we wish to support the very industry itself so that Australians can enjoy what is left of their heritage and at the same time to form the basis for a rational development of the twin elements of a successful tourist policy - the conservation and preservation of resources and the promotion of tourism itself. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
What sum has been allocated for various areas in his portfolio by the Australian Government to each of the States for local government bodies in the way of (a) untied grants, (b) tied grants and (c) loans during each of the last 5 years. 
How much of these amounts has not been taken up by local government bodies or not passed on to local government bodies by the various State Governments. 
Has the Minister for Education seen a professional report commissioned by the Boronia High School Advisory Council that shows that in the first 2 forms of 12 selected high schools in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne more than one-quarter of the children are urgently in need of remedial attention? Realising that literacy is a prerequisite for success at secondary level, can the Minister indicate what action has been taken or will be taken by the Australian Government to assist the Victorian Education Department in overcoming the extreme shortage of remedial specialists so that this incidence of illiteracy and general low level of comprehension, which leads to failures in school and thwarts the hopes held by parents and their children, can be overcome? 
-In a recent publication issued by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works there was a brief description of Melbourne's urgent need for a comprehensive and all-covering sewerage system. It went to great lengths to describe the large stagnant cesspools, stinking mud and a foulsmelling river. That was an historic piece which described a period 120 years ago when Melbourne was barely a decade old. Those cesspools, that foul-smelling river and stinking mud were in the central business district as we know it now. The problems are no less serious now but I excuse the Board of Works for perhaps being charged with tending to hyperbole with that description today. Still we have polluted creeks and rivers and still we have foul-smelling subsoil in areas where soil trying to cope with septic tank effluent is unable to cope. In 1892 the Board of Works was finally formed and the first sod turned for its project to get work under way. That Board has carried out fine work over many years but it has never caught up with the backlog, and that is what this Government is attempting to do with this Bill and its national sewerage program. 
This Government has a commitment to change that picture- to change the picture from stagnant pools to sweet-smelling creeks, from a stagnant program to a program carried out with celerity. We are committed to reverse the trend resulting from decades of neglect. We acted as soon as we entered Government in 1972. We have acted since then in full co-operation with State governments. The Sewerage Agreements Bill 1974 appropriates additional funds for the sewerage backlog works in Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia that were commenced during 1974. This is no centralist, socialist plot. It is no centralist, socialist plan as the honourable members for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  and Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  would have us believe. Let us look at the facts. Let us look at the recent history. 
As with most initiatives in his portfolio, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has sought and obtained full cooperation in most areas which he has developed in regard to the improvement of quality of life in outer urban areas and growth areas. We have accepted, for instance, those areas identified by the States themselves- those areas with the greatest need to obtain sewerage for their populations. These areas have been selected on the basis of need. They are the areas which have the greatest number of unserviced properties. They are made up mainly of fringe areas and growth centres. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  talked loosely about the results of the recent local government elections in New South Wales. However, what he said had little relevance to the debate today. Let me turn to some rather more relevant and more appropriate information for his interest. Whenever I confer with local government bodies in my area the most common compliment and observation from the representatives of 6 municipalities in an area covering over 1,000 square miles is that they have seldom been met before by a representative of the Federal Parliament. They are thankful for the increased funds that flow for area improvement programs, for regionalisation and community programs and for the host of increased funds that come through the Minister's Department, but they are even more impressed by the increased relationships and conference that they are now able to obtain with their Federal members. This attitude has resulted from a change in government. These comments come unsolicited and, I might add, from conservative dominated councils. 
It is certain that the States have been unable to cope with the increase in population and the consequent demands that outstrip facilities, particularly sewerage facilities which are the subject of this Bill. One and half million people who live in houses and flats in major cities are not connected to adequate sewerage reticulation services. These houses and flats have been mostly built during the last 20 years. A total of 100,000 people are without any sewerage at all in smaller cities of between 20,000 and 60,000 people. The Government is to supply more money and more funds to those areas covered by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works and to the fringe areas under the control of the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission. What this Bill does in effect is to get under way quickly the national sewerage program. 
In 1973-74 $30m was allocated to the States, as I said, on a needs basis or what might be called an urgency basis. Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia gained extra financial assistance during the year. This Bill seeks the approval for that total backlog sum of $3 8m. Soon we will see a change in the terms of the grants. The Opposition tried to make great capital out of its semantic argument about what is meant by grants. I do not wish to persevere with the argument or delay the business of the House on that score but I want to point out that $95m will be available in 1974-75. This amount is made up of $88m for the larger cities, $5m for smaller centres and $2m for support activities to which some speakers have referred. The grants will be a mixture; the mix will be of non-repayable grants and loans at the long term bond rate of interest. 
Without a national sewerage program we could never overcome this backlog. Without this financial assistance and without the initiatives of the Australian Government, the States alone cannot cope. Already 1 7 per cent of the population are without sewerage services. The estimation of the State authorities is that given their present facilities and funding, the population without sewerage in 1982-83 would still be 15 per cent. At this rate of a 2 per cent increase in every decade we will be well into the 21st century before we catch up with the backlog. We are committed to overcoming that backlog within the decade. 
A national sewerage program is needed to overcome the deficiencies of the lack of sewerage. The main emphasis in the national sewerage program in overcoming the backlog through Australian Government assistance will be for the upgrading of trunk mains, head works and treatment works. The main objective here obviously is to protect the environment at outfall points. I think that most honourable members are aware of the deficiencies in sewerage provision. They know that these deficiencies contribute not only to pollution but also to many other urban problems. I want to concentrate mainly on the integration of sewerage services with other urban services. We have heard honourable members speak of the biological survey counts and the sampling that has been done in various waterways. The Environment Protection Authority of Victoria, for instance, found that there were E.coli counts exceeding 200 milligrams to 100 millilitres in the bathing beaches of Port Phillip Bay. Anyone, like myself, who has lived under conditions of the 'nightsoil' approach will be well aware of the problems that that system brings. 
I mention also the difficulties that are encountered in such mountainous areas as the Blue Mountains, the Lofty Ranges and, in my own electorate, the Dandenongs. There, through the lack of adequate sewerage and unsuitable soils for the treatment of septic effluent, we find that the creeks and waterways are extremely polluted. The River Yarra is jeopardising the health of those who live downstream because of the amount of pollution that is carried from waste products and sullage. I understand that the Department of Urban and Regional Development is continuing surveys in this important area and is estimating the relative incidence of disease and other complaints in sewered and unsewered areas. Sewerage services must be provided in a comprehensive and co-ordinated way. The Department quite rightly has placed emphasis on the integration of sewerage provision with city development strategies. Obviously the sewerage facilities should be provided ahead of population in growth areas. Many States are now grappling with the problem. Victoria is to pass legislation that will require all new subdivisions and all new developments to provide sewerage. It should be imperative that in water catchment areas no further development takes place until sewerage is provided. 
Let me detail to the House the problems of providing sewerage in the Dandenong Ranges. It will illustrate well how the provision of sewerage cannot be seen in isolation, but only as part of an overall urban and regional development plan. Honourable members will be well aware that the Dandenong Ranges are about 30 kilometres to the east of Melbourne and cover a large area. It is now undergoing extreme pressures of urbanisation. With an almost exponential rate of growth we find that in the area of the Dandenong Ranges the population during the decade 1961 to 1971 has grown from 31,000 to 51,000. It is estimated that there will be a population of 70,000 people by 1976. It is not only people who will be moving into the Dandenong Ranges; there will be also the services which have to be provided for the people. The pollution of creeks in the Dandenongs is due almost entirely to effluent from septic tanks. This promotes the growth of algae and can change a once clear stream into one with slime and obnoxious odours. 
A study by the Environment Protection Authority shows that the major cause of pollution is the discharge from houses. The area under survey was polluted by the discharge of sullage and septic tank effluent from domestic properties. The western part of the Dandenongs forms part of the catchment of the polluted Dandenong Creek. This also includes unsewered residential areas, such as the Upper Ferntree Gully to Belgrave area and the northern slopes of the ranges. Urbanisation causes another important change in the natural condition of creeks. This is the change in peak flow and total run-off of water which creeks must handle. With every extra house that is built an extra area of ground is also covered.This means that the water collected on roofs, footpaths and driveways is channelled into the main drains. The total run-off in urban areas has increased up to tenfold because of this. In a typical Melbourne suburb with one-fifth acre blocks the average percentage of impervious area- roofs, roads and paving which I mentioned- is roughly 40 per cent of the total area, while with half acre blocks the impervious area is reduced to about 20 per cent of the total area. I mention this because we cannot separate the provision of sewerage services from the overall question of urban planning, including the size of blocks in areas which are hard to provide with sewerage services. These services must be seen as an integrated whole. 
The situation in the Dandenongs is grave enough already, but current town planning schemes allow a large increase in the number of houses in the Dandenongs. If the trends continue, in less than 20 years the number of houses in the Dandenongs will have trebled and impossible demand will be placed upon natural waterways. These trends cannot be allowed to continue. One solution would be to provide trunk sewerage faculties. This is many years away. But what can we do to overcome the backlog in towns like Monbulk which have populations of 2,500 to 3,000 so that we can stop immediately the pollution of the waterways and later, perhaps, connect them to the trunk sewerage? Another more feasible solution is the provision of local treatment. 
The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works has drawn up plans for several package treatment works for the main residential area of Monbulk, certain areas in Ferntree Gully and for densely populated areas of the other municipality of  Knox.  The Lillydale Sewerage Authority has drawn up plans for a package plant to service 2,500 people in the township of Monbulk. As I said, the population will be 5,000 within 20 years. The cost of this scheme will be just under $600,000 and will involve a house connection cost of $625. The treatment will be extended to aeration of the effluent, followed by sedimentation and chlorination. I should like to see those programs included in the backlog program. If we can provide sewerage to the settled areas we can later on connect them to the main trunk sewerage system. But we have a paradox here. If we provide services in the Dandenongs and if we provide sewerage facilities of a fullscale nature, it is only natural that the people who are seeking the full services of the quality of urban life will gravitate to the Dandenongs and we will see over- urbanisation to the consequent damage of the unique character of that area. I cannot stress too much the need to see the national sewerage program as part of an overall development for urban and regional development. 
I should like to see as part of every sewerage program which involves Commonwealth Government money an environmental impact statement. It is part of our policy that any program financed partly or in whole by Australian Government funds should provide such an impact statement. I believe, for instance, that in the Dandenong Ranges an overall development plan should be adopted. We should sewer the main towns and then we should demand that adequate septic systems be provided elsewhere. We should limit further residential development. As well as the Government's requiring environmental impact statements as a condition of funding sewerage programs, I should like to see innovative investigations carried out by the Department of Urban and Regional Development or the sewerage authorities on other aspects. Older cultures than ours are disgusted at our habit of clearing our noses and carrying the discharge around in our pockets wrapped up carefully in a handkerchief. Their policy is to eliminate the discharge and to dispose of it immediately. These same advanced cultures see the system of the disposal of sewage that we have adopted as a waste of a valuable resource. 
I must compliment the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  for raising the possibility of using this valuable resource for fertilisation. He suggested that perhaps it could be piped over the Blue Mountains. I do not, in commending him for his suggestion, substantiate the feasibility of the engineering projects. The older cultures of this world certainly show us a thing or two when they employ their sewage resources as a fertiliser. Some of their farms produce excellent crops, assisted only by treated sewage as a fertiliser. I should also like to see the innovation of the use of package or modular treatment plants. Where large estates and large developments have taken place there could be a great advance in overcoming the backlog if the national sewerage program could convince the sewerage authorities that they should supply on a rotating rental basis large treatment plants to municipalities. The estates then could be sewered and later joined up to the trunk sewers. The plants could be removed and turned back to the rental centre for another development. Another area for investigation which would be profitable would be to discover why there is a great difference in the charges by the Board of Works and perhaps a sewerage authority for providing sewerage to a municipality. 
I draw as an example information I received that showed that, to sewer a large site on different sides of a street dividing a municipality, the Springvale Sewerage Authority was able to provide comparable sewerage facilities for half the cost of that requested by the Metropolitan Board of Works. 
Once again I excuse myself for not being an expert on engineering matters, but it is hard to imagine that differences in soils, rocks, trenching and the size of pipes would be sufficient to explain the doubling of a quotation for the provision of services by the Board of Works. 
It is incredible that the other side of the House has decided to support this Bill while it has constantly decried the efforts of the Minister and the achievements of his Department. Honourable members opposite talk much about inflation. The only thing inflated has been their full blown speeches and their bloated words. Procrastination and interruption are the greatest inflationary factors in raising the cost of overcoming the sewerage backlog. It must be a smooth and continuous program carried out urgently and quickly. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Is the Minister for Overseas Trade aware that 2 textile manufacturers, Fibremakers Ltd at Bayswater and Courtaulds Hilton Ltd at Healesville, both in Victoria, have retrenched workers from their factories? Is he aware that reports of the number of those retrenched at Fibremakers vary from 106 to 180 and at Healesville from 30 to 40 women? What indications or assurances can he give these workers of continued employment, preferably in their former occupations, and when can the manufacturers expect an improvement in their situation? 
-I do not want to say very much in this debate. I contributed to the debate when this Bill was before the Parliament in April. It would be wrong of me to take up the time of the House with repetition. But I would like to expand on my contribution on that occasion by indicating to the House what a contribution an expanded tourist industry can make to many other facets of industry and life in Australia. Firstly, it should be realised that the tourist industry is a great employer of labour. It is a very labour-intensive industry. It employs directly about 10 per cent of the labour force when one takes into consideration accommodation, transportation, development and so on. In particular it lends itself to two areas of the work force which, given a slight downturn in the economy, can have difficulty obtaining employment in remote areas. I refer to female labour and Aboriginal labour. In particular, decentralised areas are usually the first to be bit by a downturn in the economy. One also finds coincident with the decentralised areas the better areas for tourist attraction. Surely with this coincidence lies a possible solution to overcoming the employment difficulties. 
The women who find it easy to obtain work in the tourist industry also find it suitable work because of the convenient hours of work. The peak loading of several tourist attractions coincides with a time that is suitable for them to leave thenchildren and find employment. Secondly, it increases government revenue at local, State and Federal level. In 1971-72, for instance, 24 per cent of the total visitor expenditure was collected in taxation. The income to the domestic coffers from visitor expenditure helps to redress our balance of payments and from the taxation revenue we are able to finance our domestic projects, which in a rather circulatory way means the tourist industry. 
The increased costs must also be met. It should be noted that the Budget provides for a total outlay of $7.4m, which represents an increase of $3.2m. The Australian Tourist Commission will be able to expand its activities, which is the purpose of this Bill and the accompanying Bill, the Commonwealth Banks Bill, which are being debated cognately, to an amount of $3. 3m. 
Another side effect or benefit from an increase in the activities of the tourist industry in Australia is the contribution it can make to the development of regional areas. One has only to consider the expansion of a town like Swan Hill over and above its neighbouring towns and cities to appreciate the great contribution that is being made by the tourist industry. It has attracted $1.5m in capital works and provided 120 jobs. I would like to mention that a couple of towns in my electorate- in particular Healesville- could also benefit greatly from an injection of funds from these two sources. Healesville is a small town, but it has its own percentage of children and young people who desire recreation outlets and who desire cultural outlets. If a town is too small those outlets cannot be provided. A certain size is needed to develop and support the infrastructures for what are to many suburbanites and those who live in large towns normal community facilities- libraries, sporting facilities and so on. 
An ideal opportunity for Healesville to develop would be with the development of a strong tourist centre. If we could, for instance, upgrade the railway line, which the State Government has threatened to close, knowing that there would be a contribution from these sources for either offsetting the cost of fares or subsidising fares, we would be able to encourage people to take a one-day return railway trip to Healesville and spend the time there looking at the tourist attractions which are going to be developed, such as the Lilliputian town depicting all the large and well-known structures of Melbourne, and the well-known  Sir Colin  McKenzie Sanctuary and so on there. That would be a rationale for the support and continuation of the railway service. In turn tourism would build up and provide the infrastructure that could provide the other necessary cultural activities. Another opportunity for development could arise with the removal of the Army medical school from Healesville. It will soon be removed to an area closer to the hospitals of either Sydney of Melbourne, which will be an important move. Its removal means that a very large guest house, a golf course and other facilities which have been provided for the use of officers in the past will be left vacant. Here we have an opportunity to use it as an accommodation centre for tourist attraction and so on. 
What I am trying to get across to the House is that it is important to realise that tourism is not an isolated thing but that it has to be looked at in the context of the way in which it integrates with urban and regional development, town planning, conservation, the environment and so on. In other words, I have been talking about the social and cultural advantages in a parochial sense; but in a national sense tourism has even wider values. Another contribution that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  the Department of Tourism and Recreation and these two Bills can make is the development of a national identity. They can make people realise that they are connected by more than geographic and transport links- they are connected by some unique Australian bond which comes only with an understanding and realisation of what Australia can afford in the way of an Australian way of life. 
Increased Government assistance demands increased responsibility to be shown by the tourist industry. One does not get anything for nothing. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  told us of the advantages of the Northern Territory as a tourist attraction. He spoke of the great scenic attractions and the natural geographic attractions. There will be an expansion of the national parks system there if the Australian Government, through the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, receives co-operation. We can see, for instance, the Mt Olga-Ayres Rock national park still attracting thousands of tourists, but it is threatened. The Kakadu National Park is being established and expanded but it is threatened. The common threat is that very soon, unless strong management policies are developed, the increased tourism will exceed the tourist carrying capacity of these parks. The tourist industry must realise that if it is to maintain its asset, retain its asset and develop and profit by that asset both individually and nationally, it must develop management policies which will preserve that asset. 
I mention my own electorate again because it happens to be situated within a radius of about 40 miles from Melbourne, thus being ideal for one-day and 2-day trips from the metropolis of Melbourne. The Dandenong Ranges, the Upper Yarra Valley and the Great Dividing Range come into that area. The national parks which are within one day's travel and return of Melbourne are the Doongalla Reserve, the Ferntree Gully Park, Sherbrooke Forest and the Lysterfield Reserve. All these have already reached their carrying capacity. If the national Government is to provide assistance to enable State governments or local governments to continue to provide tourist facilities and to advertise them, I believe that it should demand and expect in return an acceptance of the obligation to provide management policies for these parks to see that they are not threatened by over-use by tourists. I believe the Government must demand overall management plans for these areas before funds or loans are handed over. 
First and foremost the 2 Bills before the House should provide assistance. Australia must become more competitive in order to narrow the gap between Australian expenditure overseas and visitor spending in Australia, which will probably be boosted by the recent announcement of the devaluation of the Australian dollar by 12 per cent. It is now cheaper to travel in Australia than it was and it is now dearer to travel overseas than it was. Reflected in this 12 per cent devaluation should be a return to Australia in earnings from increased tourism. On the other hand, a non-economic, more intangible but just as important value is the increased contact and understanding that overseas countries will have of Australia. 
The Government is to expand the functions of the Commonwealth Development Bank to lend to firms engaged in the travel industry. The Government received a slight jibe from the Opposition about the mining industry, but honourable members are fully aware that the Government already assists primary and secondary industries. Now it is time to extend the resources available to developers from the Commonwealth Development Bank to the services or tertiary industries- in this case tourism. Another aspect of this expansion of the activities of the Australian Tourist Commission is the promotion of domestic tourism as well as international tourism. It is well enough to generate more people from outside to provide increased earnings but it is equally important to generate increased travel opportunities to indigenous Australians. As the working week becomes shorter, as the tension of modern life in the cities becomes stronger and as the desire for escape from it becomes stronger the opportunities should be provided at weekends for one-day and 2-day trips. There will also need to be provided one-week and 2-week trips such as to the Centre, to the Great Barrier Reef and to the other internationally known natural and geographic features. 
The Australian Tourist Commission was established in 1967 because of the recognition of the need for a central organising agency. But until this Government took office the Commission was limited virtually to name only. What is needed and what will be provided is that the Commission be more of a guide, a catalyst, a promoter- as well as an integrator. I believe that that is what this Commission will do under its expanded role. 
Particular attention should be given to the small tourist projects. It is true that we need large scale hotels of international standard, but more and more we need to provide facilities for the average suburbanite to get away from it all, to escape modern living, to get away on day trips and 2-day trips to something different- to what Professor Ovington has described as the outback syndrome. We need to escape to our more primordial surroundings, our environment, and to imbibe something more natural than the artificial life we have created in the cities and the suburbs. 
You farmers should understand that well. I came from the country myself. 
Do not worry, my friend. I have purchased 8 acres to grow my own grapes. I have expressed in no uncertain way my primordial desire to return to the earth from which I sprang. 
The Budget provides $2.25m for the development of tourist attractions. The Government has announced that it will widen the criteria on which this will be based. In fact $4.1m will be spent on assistance to the tourist industry. The La Trobe electorate offers many examples of tourist activities close to the large metropolises. I do not wish to be parochial but I want to emphasise that. For example, I believe that this Government should assist the developing museum at the Police Paddocks in Rowville. There is unparelleled scenery in the Dandenong Ranges, in the national parks I have mentioned and in the waterways of the Upper Yarra Valley. Art galleries and restaurants have been developed there to make it a unique area on the outer fringes of the metropolises. Healesville has a very active promotion committee. There is the sanctuary, and now it is developing its Lilliput town to depict in one-twelfth scale the more important and renowned engineering feats of Melbourne. I cannot understand why the regional area which the State Government has developed will extend from the Eildon Weir right down to Flinders near the penguins which the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch)  mentioned and praised, and quite rightly so. It seems to me that this region offers little in the way of connection or co-ordination in a link. This means that it is still bound with parochial emphasis on profit to the town, to the individual or to the local government in the short term. I believe that what the Minister has suggested in this legislation as the expanded role of the Australian Tourist Commission and of the Development Bank will help to turn that parochialism into a national identity and a national purpose. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Is the Minister aware that businesses have been refused the opportunity to participate in the Bankcard scheme because they refused to sign an agreement that would have prevented them from charging a customer using a bank credit card a surcharge to cover bank charges to the business? Is this action a form of resale price maintenance and is this in contravention of the Trade Practices Act? Is this action by the banks an admission that all customers will face higher prices to cover the costs of these bank charges and therefore be a contributing factor to inflation? What action will be taken by the Government on this matter to see that the public interest is protected? 
-We have heard so many opinions from the Opposition during this debate about what shape our economy is in and what role this Budget, or any budget, should play in regulating the economy that I believe it is in order to put aside the humbug and look at the facts objectively. The latest 'Round up of Economic Statistics' provided by the Treasury gives part of the picture. Demand and activity have continued to weaken although private final consumption expenditure, seasonally adjusted and at constant prices, rose by 0.5 per cent in the June quarter compared with 0.4 per cent in the December quarter last year. The value of retail sales, seasonally adjusted, in the 3 months to August increased by 3.6 per cent. Business is doing very well, on average. There have been failures; there have always been failures. Risk is the rationale for profits in the capital market. The Mainline Corporation went to the wall through bad management and the Cambridge Credit Corporation depended too heavily on land speculation to cover its repayments, but well managed businesses have boomed. 
Despite low share market prices, which is only one indicator of business confidence, an independent survey of 213 companies listed on the Stock Exchange showed that 148 recorded higher profits, 45 lower and 20 were steady. Averaged out profits climbed over the last 12 months by 24.4 per cent. Where is the stifling of private enterprise talked about by members of the Opposition? Where are their facts to support their case? They are silent on fact but loud on rhetoric. The 'Round up of Economic Statistics' shows that under the influence of previously tight credit conditions lending for housing and other purposes has declined to relatively low levels. The operative words here are 'relatively low levels'. Unrestricted activity in the housing industry had led to boom conditions under the previous Government, and as demand outstripped resources in the building industry inflation in that sector boomed to unreal levels. Even now the effects are being felt and during the last 2 years the wholesale price index of materials used in house building rose by almost one-third. Despite this a record number of private housing was built during the last 12 months. Measures taken during recent weeks are expected to lead to a marked rise in lending for housing but at a level that is consistent with available resources. 
The Opposition has spoken as if the Budget is the only economic weapon available to the Government. This is nonsense. The Budget sets the main economic strategy and additional measures, fiscal and monetary, are employed to adjust the economy through what is called 'fine tuning'.  Major measures  taken in the past month but which have yet to exert their influence on the economy include devaluation of the Australian dollar, reductions in the yields on shorter term Australian Government securities, reductions in the statutory reserve deposit ratios of the major trading banks and other steps to increase trading bank liquidity and reductions in the asset requirements of savings banks. All of this will encourage business activity as it is designed to do. Yet members of the Opposition are still apostles of doom. One of the greatest influences on the economy is confidence- confidence in the economy by the people and by business. If business and public confidence is high then the economy is more likely to improve. If confidence is undermined there is a further move towards a recession. For instance, depositors rushed to draw out money from building societies when they were told their money was at risk. They put it all back a few days later when the societies assured depositors that their money was secure. 
Confidence is important and all the media, spokesmen and politicians have a great responsibility to echo facts rather than create conjecture and panic. Some newspapers and the Opposition in particular are to be condemned for their wild, inaccurate and unsubstantiated statements which proclaim economic doom. Members of the Opposition have a great responsibility here but they have turned their backs on responsibility and instead have chosen to undermine public and business confidence with wild cat off-the-cuff statements. The Opposition has a great greed for power and would do anything to gain control of this country again in the name of big business. This time it has chosen to spread unrest and uncertainty instead of offering reasonable alternative economic policies. The Opposition is the greatest force in bringing about the recession and the depression it prophesies. 
Predict rampant inflation and people will rush to buy goods to beat it. The result is more inflation as demand outstrips supply. Australia's economy is in good shape compared with that of our main trading partners. We have less inflation than have most comparable Western economies. 
Listen to this: The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  made great play of a table of figures showing the rates of inflation in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. He apparently wanted to use this table to back up his case that the Australian economy is in bad shape. But why did that table show only 15 out of the accepted 24 countries that make up the comparable OECD countries? Why did the Leader of the Opposition forget to show that Turkey has an inflation rate of 25.9 per cent, Portugal 25.9 per cent, Spain 15.2 per cent, and so on? It was because he had presented a dishonest case to the Parliament and a dishonest case to the people. 
What the figures show beyond doubt is that the current inflation is a world-wide problem and not confined to Australia as he would have us believe. In fact, Australia, with the inflation rate of 14.4 per cent, is eleventh on the table of comparable OECD countries. Of our main trading partners, Japan recorded 25 per cent inflation, Italy 19 per cent, the United Kingdom 17 per cent, Denmark 16 per cent, New Zealand 10.5 per cent and the United States and Canada 1 1.5 per cent. What should be noted from this table is that the rate of increase in Australia's inflation is less than in the other countries. Our trading position therefore will further improve following devaluation of the currency. 
The panic-creating speeches of the Opposition do not finish there. This irresponsible Opposition talks of high levels of unemployment, whereas as well as our level of inflation being lower than in other countries we have far less unemployment. We are not happy with more than 2 per cent out of work, but in the United States of America and Canada the figure is more than 6 per cent and in the United Kingdom stands at 5 per cent. Actual numbers of unemployed are less than when the Liberal Government deliberately put 130,000 out of work 2 years ago to try to defeat inflation. The people know the Opposition would do it again to morrow given half the chance. The Australian Government has not sacked anyone deliberately and those who have lost their jobs through Government decisions are now looked after. There are retraining programs, and unemployment benefits have been lifted to a realistic level. Under the previous Government there was no worthy assistance to the unemployed. 
The people do not have short memories about things that leave an imprint on their minds. They will not forget the callous boast by the previous Government in which the present Leader of the Opposition was Treasurer, that they had achieved their target of deliberately creating high levels of unemployment. They will not be fooled by the public relations exercise by the Opposition during last weekend as they limped and lurched out of the 1940s and into the 1960s. They will realise that it is nothing more than plagiarisation of Oscar Wilde's 'The Picture of Dorian Gray'. The image may be superficially modern but the substance is unchanged and heading for decay. There will be no election next May unless the Opposition is more foolish, more ignorant and more irresponsible than I gave it credit for. 
The role of opposition is to review and to propose alternatives, not just to offer blind and biased opposition. I have searched through the speeches members of the Opposition have made during this debate. I have listened to them all. Yet I cannot find a consistent strand of alternative policy. I do find, however, a mishmash, a plethora of contradictions and proposals that have not been thought through. Their contribution, if I can call it that, to this debate has been cant, negative, repetitive and unimaginative. 
The Leader of the Opposition wants to cut taxation by $900m and later by $ 1,000m. The former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  wants to see $2,000m in tax cuts. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  wants an injection of $6,000m into the economy. These suggestions are all inflationary. We have cut taxation by a commonsense $430m, consistent with our economic and welfare programs. We might ask: Will the average man in the street be better off through this Budget? The Opposition has concentrated on red herrings and has avoided the answer to this question. It is a sectionalist opposition and points to the minor changes that have been made that affect only a few in the hope of raising a smoke screen that will hide the real impact of this Budget. It points to the 10 per cent property income surcharge and the change in the limit of education expenses allowable as a tax deduction which affect only a few, while even a superficial examination, if honestly taken, would indicate that the vast number of people must benefit. 
In fact, 90 per cent of the people will benefit through $430m tax cuts, abolition of television and radio licences and a special tax rebate for low income families. At the same time the whole community will benefit from increased community spending, including amounts for education, sewerage, hospitals, roads, protection of the environment and health. There is no sense in gaining more money in the pocket through higher wages or less tax if the environment, the neighbourhood, suburb or country is not fit to live in. Few individuals can purchase relief from a poor standard of community living. Few can promote themselves above community squalor or provide these benefits for themselves alone. They can be provided only through community spending. This the Government has done responsibly. 
The honourable member for Wannon believes that the Government cannot increase its expenditure by one-third as outlined in the Budget while expecting the average Australian to provide the things he needs for his family and his home. This is what he said. It is obvious that he has not read the Budget in any detail or he would not have made such a ridiculous statement. The fact is that nearly all families will benefit in areas of education, health and welfare. These are the basic needs of any family. He talked of competition between the public and private sectors for available resources. He believes this competition is the basic cause of inflation. This is not reasoning, it is not an explanation of reality; this theory of his is nothing but justification for his ignorance on economic matters. 
The honourable member believes that the people should have the right to maximise their individual choice and that governments should try to do everything possible to establish the circumstances in which people can choose. He is quite right. Of course he is right. But unfortunately he ignores that one has freedom of individual choice only when one has command of a high income. When 90 per cent of the wage and salary earners earn much less than $10,000 per year it is nonsense to talk about freedom of individual choice. This is available only to those enjoying an income in excess of $ 10,000. 
In a joint statement with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the Leader of the Opposition on 12 September said that expansion in the Budget on expenditure would set the stage for further inflation because this would add to demand pressures, even if financed by tax receipts. Does he not realise that a dollar spent in the public sector has the same economic impact as a dollar spent in the private sector? Does he not realise that much of the Budget expenditure ends up in the private sector through transfer payments and pensions? 
What are the realities of increased Government expenditure? In 1973-74 the expenditure on goods and services was up 17 per cent. Transfers to the States and local government authorities were up 2 1 per cent. Cash benefits to persons were up almost 22 per cent- all this in money terms. At the same time gross national expenditure was up 25.3 per cent in money terms and gross national expenditure was up 1 1.6 per cent in real terms. Obviously inflationary pressures due to expenditure demand exceeding supply and speculation arise in the private sector. The 1974-75 Budget does increase demand, and rightly so. It is necessary to carry out our political commitments which were reaffirmed and accepted by the people in the Federal election earlier this year. We will not dishonour our promises. We will discharge our obligations. Furthermore, the expansion in the public sector is designed to be flexible and to take up any slack in the private sector that might develop. 
Labour and other resources that are not employed in the private sector will be put to productive social use in the public sector. Labour and materials that would have gone into erecting city office blocks later to be only half tenanted can be diverted into public programs such as schools, hospitals, welfare housing, local government and regional development, community building and sewerage works. The Opposition, which deliberately caused unemployment in the private sector in 1971-72 did not take up the slack in public employment. The unemployed did not take up employment until the Labor Government took office. This Government will not deliberately bring about unemployment or stand by and not provide the opportunities for the unemployed should unemployment increase. We are confident that the current unemployment will flatten out and subside. That is our intention. So this program outlined in the Budget must be flexible. It is flexible. Already by easing credit in line with lessening demand pressure and by devaluing the Australian dollar unemployment is easing. 
There are still honourable members in this House who remain so taken with the virtues of the so-called free market, and who voice paranoid statements about the evils of community spending by governments, that they are blind to the way the free market has been reduced to the rigged market controlled by cartels and other monopolistic forces. There is no need to look beyond the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange to see that public spending in the eyes of the Opposition is heresy, a distortion and an alleged instrument that saps incentives and taxes the ambitious, hard working and innovative into submission. It would rather an economy that produces 45 brands of hair spray - 
Sitting suspended  from 6.15  p.m. to  8  p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker, earlier I was saying that some members of the Opposition displayed blind prejudiced faith in the so-called free market and held an abhorence of public spending. For them the mixed economy is almost heresy. They would rather an economy that produced 45 brands of hairspray and countless brands of cigarettes but snowed few signs of adequate transport or sewerage systems, which exhibited an abundance of deprived schools and overcrowded hospitals and boasted a poverty record that affected 20 per cent of the people. Where are their values? The Opposition would rather accept profit for itself without qualification and the power that goes with it rather than question what can be achieved with it and what is the result for the common good. For instance, the Opposition talks of the Budget lowering incentive for private investment but ignores the role that education plays in production. Education is the precursor of technological change and capital inspired increases in productivity have been estimated to provide 27 per cent of all investment inputs. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  says he would cut government expenditure by $ 1,000m, bringing it down to 2 1 per cent of the Budget. A fine proposal, except that it ignores the members of the Public Service who would need to be sacked to accomplish that, especially as the Government has placed a ceiling on staff increases. Has he told the Public Service unions of his intentions? I doubt it. But most importantly, he does not and will not indicate where he will make these cuts. All we know is that he would cut government expenditure across the board. Under a Liberal Treasurer, then, we can expect cuts in defence expenditure, in education, in health, in housing, roads, sewerage programs, in law and order. Pensioners can expect to be cut back to the miserly 50c increases they received before Labor became the Government The Opposition should stand up and tell the people the truth. Will they cut Government expenditure and, if so, where will they cut it back? 
Last weekend the Opposition promised the States a fixed percentage of tax revenue. How can the States and local government expect sufficient revenue from a Liberal government when that Party wishes to cut taxes and cut government expenditure. The increase in expenditure in the 1974-75 Budget, through transfers to the States and local government, is 21 per cent. It is up to $3 in every $10. They can expect less than that from a Liberal government. The Opposition should stand up and tell the States and local government the truth. Will their income levels continue or will taxes and Government expenditure be cut back? 
I would also like to comment on the first reaction of the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to the Budget He said it was socialist; but then anything which is progressive or standing for all the people rather than for his sectional interests alone he calls socialist. Labor was more concerned with milking the cow than feeding it, he said. Here is another member of the Opposition who has not read the Budget fully. Assuming that the honourable member for Richmond does know the difference between a cow and a bull, it is a pity that he does not know which end the feed goes in and which end produces the Country Party policies and statements. Has he not noticed the $49.5m increase in funds for direct industry assistance? He conveniently ignores the allocation for rural reconstruction which stands at $30m. Does he not acknowledge the $ 13.3m for forestry and fishing industries, the $ 102m for the wool industry, and so on? 
The 1974-75 Budget is an historic document. It attempts for the first time in Australia what no other nation has successfully achieved- the defeat of inflation without recourse to deliberate widespread unemployment. It is true that the present level of unemployment has worsened slightly, mainly through seasonal downturns and recession in the private sector, but the slack will be taken up as the Government's community programs begin to bite. Inflation and unemployment are not endemic to Australia. They are world wide phenomena, but we are better off than most other countries where the economy - 
-This motion which has been moved by the Opposition is baseless, inaccurate, hypocritical and fatuous. It is baseless and inaccurate because it relies entirely on conjecture and not on Government opinion. I remind the House that this motion is directed at a government decision. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has made great play in his newspaper column and today in this chamber of the fact that it is the Prime Minister and the members of the Cabinet who form the Government. He is constantly reminding us of that. He rejects the right of backbench members of Parliament- in the Australian Labor Party's case the Caucus- to have a say. He is a proponent of the rubber stamp principle. The honourable member has undergone fantastic mental and rhetorical gymnastics to fit into his framework of understanding of the political institution his attack on the Government in this chamber today. 
The Opposition has produced no evidence of indecisiveness. Where is the evidence of that? There is none. On the other hand, there is evidence of consistency in relation to justice in education and equity in taxation. The Australian Labor Party's platform and policy are clear on the economic and educational aspects of this matter, this has been debated publicly for the last 5 years. It leaves nothing to conjecture. We believe in the need for a review of the Australian taxation systems, especially in order to reduce the taxation imposed upon the lower and middle incomes. We have done that. We believe that such a review should adjust the system of deductions to avoid inequities. We have done that too. We also believe that the responsibility of the Government towards education is to assist in meeting the requirements of all school-age children on the basis of needs and priorities and that our primary obligation in government is to provide and maintain a government school system of the highest standard that is open to all children. Everbody knows that that has been the subject of debate for the last 5 years. 
It was the policy of the Chifley Government -it has been our policy since the Commonwealth in 1942 took over the power to impose income tax- to have rebates rather than taxation deductions. That policy was replaced by the iniquitous taxation concessions system of the LiberalCountry Party Government in 1 950. We cannot isolate this debate on the right to a $30m taxation deduction for education expenses from the full thrust of the Australian Schools Commission. The consequent funding must be considered. We cannot take this aspect out of context of the total education policy. The statement on this matter by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech was direct and unqualified, not indecisive. He said: 
The Australian Government's program involves substantial increases in direct expenditures on education and there is no longer a case for providing substantial indirect assistance through the taxation system. Accordingly the amount deductible . . . will be reduced from $400 to $150 . . . 
That is an unqualified, sound, just and certain statement. The outlays on education in this Budget are up by 78 per cent, an increase of $674m. Contrast that with the $30m deduction that has been concentrated on by the Opposition. That is a massive increase on top of the 92 per cent increase in the Budget the year before. Education expenditure now stands at 9.4 per cent of the estimated Budget outlays. We are spending 8 times as much on education as the LiberalCountry Party Government was spending a decade ago, and 7 times as much as it was spending only two or three years ago. Expenditure on schools and pre-schools has increased by 137 per cent over last year's figure. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  talked about the value of the concession being eroded by inflation, but he gave no instance and put forward no substantive argument to support that statement. Let us take as an example the average of $113 put up by our advisers. Even if that amount suffered an inflation rate of an incredible, fantastic 33  W  per cent, it would still be under the $150 deduction that we propose to allow. The suggested average deduction would still be included. The honourable member for Bennelong also talked about discrimination against handicapped children and the boarding schools that are necessary to accommodate isolated children. Let us examine the allowance for isolated children. We spent $9m last financial year on the isolated children's allowance. In some instances we have awarded up to $400. We have also increased the handicapped children's allowance. None of those allowances was available under the administration of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The honourable member also talked about an uneasy coalition within the Government. I remind him of the shifting sands of the coalition between the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party last year when the Country Party had to join my colleagues and me on this side of the House. That action split its coalition understandingto support the funding of the Karmel grants so that the children at all schools in Australia would have money to continue with their education. The Liberal Party section of the Opposition stands indicted for trying to filibuster in relation to the provision of that money, which it was the right of every citizen in this country to have. We also cannot take out of context the rearrangement of our attitude to taxation concessions. Our Budget strategy has been to review the iniquitous taxation concessions and taxation deductions and, hopefully, to bring in some form of rebate next year. We have already done that with respect to our assistance to the low income families. We now award a rebate to them. Education expenses are one of the many concessional deductions now allowed. As I have said, from 1942 to 1950, although they did not include education then, we paid it in the form of a rebate. 
The advice tendered by economic experts has been consistent with the advice of academics and the Government's advisers. Four economists from the University of Melbourne 10 years ago argued that the case for giving tax relief for education expenses in the form of concessional deductions was even weaker than the case for deductions for dependants, which we have changed. We now operate a rebate system on deductions for dependants to assist low income families. We will carry that through after we have received a full report from the Asprey Committee. Any straight out deduction is more valuable to the richer than to the poorer. It means more dollars back in the pockets of those who are more able to afford it and less to those who are least able to afford it. Those conservative economists recommended that concessional deductions be replaced by a system of rebates. 
In all of these debates the Government and its supporters have been consistent. Every person who spoke in the debate within the Government on this matter argued for a removal of concessions and for their replacement by rebates which were equitable for every level of income. The report of the Coombs Task Force, which made suggestions on how Government expenditure should be cut, was quoted by the honourable member for Bennelong, but he did not read the lot of it- he took some of it out of context. The Coombs Task Force said: ... the concession has been of particular benefit to those taxpayers wishing to educate their children at the more expensive private schools and in so doing it has, no doubt, been of indirect benefit to the financial viability of those schools. As such, the concession appears to be operating in a manner directly counter to the approach embodied in the recent report of the Karmel Committee. 
Honourable members have made great play on the thrust of the Karmel Committee 's report and the funding on the basis of need. It would be irregular and inconsistent to persevere with a taxation concession that independent economic advisers have told us is inconsistent with the thrust of that report. We are not inconsistent; we are consistent. 
The preliminary report of the Taxation Review Committee has suggested that we should revert to some form of rebate rather than persist with taxation concessions. These forms of taxation concessions are publicly denounced by all. You can see,  Mr Speaker,  that this motion is baseless and inaccurate. The reasons behind the motion are obvious. The Opposition does not believe in equity or justice either in taxation or in the equality of opportunity in education. It wants to preserve inequality and injustice. It is anxious to divide society, to set the haves against the have nots and the needy against the greedy. The Opposition is greedy for power. The uproar and fuss that has been generated by it has been nothing more than a smokescreen to hide the benefits of the Budget in regard to education and other community areas. 
This motion is proof of the hypocrisy of the Opposition on education and taxation. Firstly members of the Opposition have conveniently forgotten that a few years ago they changed the Act and reduced taxation deductions. Let me explain. There was a time when both parents could claim tax deductions for the same child as long as their child's educational expenses exceeded twice the amount of the limit on the taxation deduction. Therefore they are hypocritical when they say that they would not or have not reduced the taxation deduction. Secondly, they argue that this" deduction is necessary to help pay for fares, materials and books. But this surely is the role of State governments. These State-righters in the Opposition should be urging their States to eliminate the costs that force parents to pay extra fees. It is hypocritical to claim State rights and then argue against the States accepting a responsibility in this sphere of education. The Opposition wants 2 bob each way. Thirdly, it is hypocritical because to restore - 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  Obviously, with so many demands, a national approach must be taken. That is why this national Government must accept the responsibility and why it will no longer stand by and see confrontation fill the responsibility vacuum. This Government will place to the advantage of the States $26m in this Budget for their purposes and ours to perfect the expertise that needs to be put into a wholesale transport system. This is not centralism but a national approach which must be adopted to overcome the backlog of work and to fill the vacuum of responsibility which has been part of our scene for far too long. 
-I rise in this debate to bring to the attention of honourable members a rather serious matter. It is not a new matter; it is something that has been going on for some time. I refer to the smuggling of birds into and out of Australia. For some time there has been a great deal of organised smuggling of wildlife, especially birds, from Australia mainly to Asia and Europe, where there is a ready market, and more recently there has been smuggling of some foreign fauna and avifauna into Australia. Unfortunately, although we ban exports of certain birds from Australia, imports into Asia are not banned; so, by a quick boat trip or aeroplane trip concealed birds can be transported from Australia to Singapore or some other international destination and then imported into a further country. 
Imports into this country bring 2 main dangers to Australia. Firstly, they could carry certain diseases which could infect our own natural and domestic animals and birds. Secondly, if they were predators they could displace our endemic species. One need only think of the European carp that have been introduced into waterways in this country, sometimes only a few kilometres from a fish hatchery, resulting in the destruction of the farming of fish. It is mainly the export of birds about which I want to talk. The main threat is to rare species. Consider, for instance, the only species of bird endemic to Victoria- the yellow helmeted honey eater, whose numbers are down to 300 breeding pairs which are to be found in a small area in Yellingbo on the inland side of the Dandenong Ranges. A concerted effort to trap these birds and sell them for high prices overseas could threaten that species. 
But breaking the law is only half the story. The birds undergo great cruelty during their passage internationally. It is estimated that between 15 per cent and 60 per cent die in their transport. A small bird is concealed by perhaps being inserted into a stocking, tied up in a sausage shape and inserted in the lining of a coat. This is very effective in concealing the bird, but it is not very good for the bird. In some instances 80 per cent of the traffic load dies. This is a most cruel and barbaric practice. Even those birds that survive have been drugged and forced into cramped, confined spaces for the trip to market. In fact, many die even before reaching the point of export in this country. The alert officers of wildlife commissions and similar bodies which are trying to stamp out this practice sometimes intercept a load and the load is dumped because the smugglers wish to get away. Callous South Australian bird smugglers in 1972, only 2 years ago, fleeing from a wildlife service patrol, left 198 parrots to die in the desert. The birds, which could have fetched up to $40,000 on overseas black markets, were jammed in 7 tiny boxes and abandoned in a dry creek near Oodnadatta north of Adelaide. They all suffocated, died of thirst and hunger or were eaten by wild dogs. 
It is not difficult to understand why the smuggling is increasing. It is a very profitable business. It has been estimated that perhaps in excess of $lm a year is earned by smugglers in this way. I shall give some examples of the prices that are being obtained overseas. In the United States of America a pink galah would sell for $100 to $200. In Singapore Port Lincoln parrots and 
Twenty-eight parrots- which, as you probably know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  are common in Western Australia- sell for $100 or more a pair. A true pair of golden shouldered parrots is worth up to an incredible $8,000 in London. It is unfortunate for parrots that they are very popular. They are popular because they bring higher prices and because they are very easy to keep. It is also unfortunate for these birds in which there is a traffic that bird collectors, like gem collectors and stamp collectors, pay big prices if the bird is rare. Just as a stamp collector feels proud to show off a one penny black or a Cape of Good Hope triangle, it is very big time for a bird collector to show off a rare species of bird. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has displayed a great interest in this problem for many years. He is doing what he can. But, with Australia's coastline of 12,000 miles and the opportunities for light aircraft to fly off from many points in Australia and land on off-shore islands of perhaps Asia, it is very difficult to control this smuggling. It is very difficult to keep an eye on all unauthorised boats in the waters. It is extremely easy for someone travelling on domestic or international airlines to conceal birds in his personal clothing. Let me give two more examples. Deadly snakes, puff adders, have been posted, in of all things- the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  might be interested- jiffy bags. Another United States venomous snake, the water moccasin, has been found imported into this country in plastic lunchboxes. It is this incredibly easy way of transporting exotic and rare wildlife that makes it so difficult for the Attorney-General and his officers to stamp out the practice. 
What are the solutions? I do not pretend to know the solutions. Perhaps it would be a good idea to bring in some form of legal export so that we can control and supervise the legitimate trade in birds and animals to avoid the cruelty and to remove the attraction of the high profits that come with illicit trading. This regulated export, of course, would have to be confined to those birds not under threat of extinction. It would have to comply with any international agreements to which Australia is a signatory. A good start might be the licensing and registration of bird breeders in Australia. These are all suggestions. We cannot solve all the problems. No department can solve them. Two forms of inquiry might be adopted. Perhaps an interdepartmental committee could review all the laws relating to the import and export of birds and small animals. I imagine that the departments involved in the inter-departmental committee would include, naturally, the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of the Environment and Conservation and, because of the threat of imported diseases and parasites, the Department of Health. I also recommend to this Parliament that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation start an inquiry into the disgraceful and hazardous practice of trafficking in rare and endangered species of birds. 
A similar inquiry has already begun overseas. The British Society for the Protection of Birds is conducting a 2-year study to discover the size of the incoming traffic in birds. An ornithologist with a 2-year contract with the Society to make the study was expected to have completed his work in September this year. He could have presented his report already. He has said that of Australia's 250 species of parrots some 200 were regularly advertised in English magazines that circulated among bird fanciers and collectors. The rarer birds usually went to collectors who enjoyed the one-upmanship I mentioned of having something that their fellow collectors could not get. He found that for a pair of blue bonnet parrots the selling price quoted in 'Cage and Aviary Birds', a weekly journal, was $750, and for rosellas between $75 and $ 100. 
I rose in this debate purely to bring this important matter, which arose once again in the newspapers over the weekend, to the attention of honourable members. I recommend that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation conduct such an inquiry as I have suggested. 
-Much has been said tonight about the confrontations between residents and road authorities and the confrontations between trade unions and road authorities. We have heard of the celebrated bans that have been placed on the construction in Sydney of the North- Western expressway. All of us have heard of the people called eccentrics by some and courageous men of principle by others who have stood in front of bulldozers. Every person in this chamber has heard of the confrontations between the road construction authorities and the people affected, whether they be residents of the areas through which the freeways are passing or people concerned for the environment that a freeway may disrupt or mar. 
I wonder why few of us in this chamber have questioned how these confrontations occur. I believe that it is because there is not enough openness in decision making. There is not enough frankness by road making authorities as to what they are doing and what they intend to do. There is not enough frankness in informing the public why the road making authorities have come to a certain decision. There is not enough explanation to the public. We must remember that members of the public are the ones who will be served by these roads. They are the ones to be affected and surely they should understand what is happening. If they had things explained to them and if they knew the mechanics of the decision making and the reasons behind it there would be a lessening of confrontations. There is certainly not enough consultation between road making authorities and the public. It could be simply a natural response by conscientious citizens to what I might term blind bloody-mindedness. 
If people believe there is a responsibility vacuum, that a particular road making authority is pressing regardless of the consequences, responsible people will fill that vacuum. Knowing that roads are for people the people want a say in the type of roads to be constructed, where they will be, how they will be constructed and who will be affected. The idea of resident action groups and trade unions filling responsibility vacuums is not new. Sometimes it is nothing more than a protest and so we had the many Vietnam moratoriumsthe protests when a government, through its bloody-mindedness and its refusal to recognise the change in public opinion, had to put up with and was confronted with protests. 
So it is that in Ringwood in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Cas.sey  (Mr Mathews),  1,200 to 1,500 people attended a meeting on Sunday to protest about a freeway. Although the freeway may have been wanted it was decided, out of 4 alternative routes, to put it through a 2-year-old residential estate. Honourable members can imagine the distress felt by so many who had been there only 2 years and were still paying off their houses when they found that a bloody-minded government was going irresponsibly to put a freeway through their homes and their estate. In my electorate of La Trobe, which is adjacent to the electorate of the honourable member for Casey, there has been the establishment of the DLF which, in explanation to honourable members, is the Dandenongs Liberation Front. It is of unknown numbers but it is comprised of men of calibre- men who are determined to stand in front of a bulldozer and who are determined that roads will not be widened beyond the needs of tourist traffic and residential demand to bite into some of the most beautiful scenery within easy driving distance of the metropolis of Melbourne. These men will not stand by and see the Dandenong Ranges ruined. 
How can consultation and openness in decision making be brought about? I believe it can be brought about by a government preparing public environmental impact statements. In developing an environmental impact statement the policy, the plans, the development and the intentions could be explained to the public and criticisms invited. That is the time to feel and test the mood of the public. It should not be tested in any confrontation when it is too late. After criticisms have been invited, duly treated, processed and answered then, and only then, should decisions be made by the road authorities. I believe that members of the Opposition think that we should take a leaf from their State counterparts in New South Wales and Victoria and say that impact statements are to be secret, they are not to be explained until after decisions have been made and, if possible, after the project has been completed. This invites confrontation and protestation. I believe therefore that if governments are going to leave empty the responsibility vacuum they are encouraging residents to fill it. 
An environmental impact statement on road making would include a study of the advantages and disadvantages of freeways. The advantages are probably more obvious to the motorist than to the resident who has had his home taken over or passed through by a freeway or affected by increasing noise. First of all freeways increase quickly and more speedily the mobility of the motorist. There are fewer accidents on freeways per passenger mile than on any other form of road. There is less pollution. The vehicles travel at a more economical speed, have more perfect combustion of the gases and less discharge of pollution into the atmosphere. Freeways are ideal for re-routing traffic round metropolises and towns rather than through them. These are the obvious advantages. But the disadvantages, because they are of a more intangible kind, are perhaps less obvious. Freeways divide communities. How often have we seen one community divided because of a very large wide multi-lane freeway through the middle. Freeways disrupt private lives. People are forced to shift to another area, another part of the metropolis. They would not have had to do so if roads had been upgraded rather than freeways thrust through the towns. 
Freeways create bottlenecks. Too often we find that not enough emphasis has been given to the totality of the planning of freeways and after a vehicle has disgorged from the freeway there is a bottleneck in narrow streets. As I have mentioned, they tend to destroy beautiful areas such as the Yarra Bend Park in Kew where three or four freeways have gone through as the Eastern Freeway to disrupt some rather beautiful parkland. It is true enough that we are promised that this area will be regrassed and beautiful trees planted, but it seems ridiculous to me that we should have to uproot and destroy a wide acreage of parkland to put in a new park which will never replace what nature took many years to perfect. 
Freeways and roads cannot be seen in isolation. They must be seen as part of an overall urban plan, which we must see against the total transport system- the alternative modes of transport available to passengers, to the public, such as railways, other forms of fixed rail transport, private and public buses and so on. We also must realise that we are not designing roads for a certain capacity at a particular point in time. We must realise that if we widen a tourist road to take heavier traffic than the residents or the tourists demand, this will encourage -more traffic and more residents, and therefore place greater strains on the road. We must never forget the safety angle in our road planning. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the recommendations contained in the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety report entitled 'Roads and their Environment' in which these very points are raised. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-by leave-This is the first report from the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in the Twentyninth Parliament. The inquiry into the conservation of endangered species on Christmas Island, the first to be completed by a subcommittee, began in the previous Parliament and was interrupted by the double dissolution. The use of sub-committees offers increased flexibility and enables us to get on with inquiries into matters requiring urgent investigation. We feel it is fitting that sub-committee chairman speak to reports for which they have been primarily responsible. 
The Committee's major aim was to examine the effect of mining and other activities on the flora and fauna of Christmas Island and to advise on any measures necessary to protect the environment. Christmas Island is the home of several rare and endangered bird species. One particular species, the abbotts booby, is found nowhere else in the world and already has generated considerable international scientific study. It is a large sea bird whose unique habits and characteristics make it distinct from all other species of booby. 
The Committee found, after visiting the Island, that most of the trees that form the habitat of the abbott's booby are being destroyed as mining progresses, and that as a result the bird is in danger of extinction. We discovered by analysing the distribution of phosphate and of booby habitat that by selective and careful clearing, a considerable area of habitat may be left intact with little effect on phosphate production. We have a responsibility to ensure that this bird, and other species of fauna, do not become extinct as a result of our exploitation of the environment. 
The abbott's booby, and many other species on Christmas Island, have not yet been fully studied. There is still much we have to learn from them, and about them. In this regard, we have an obligation not only to Australia, but also to the rest of the world, to see that the natural beauty of the Island and its unique wildlife are preserved for future generations. I feel that by our inquiry, we have helped to pursue this significant objective. The Committee was pleased at the interest generated by our inquiry and impressed by the sincerity of organisations and people who assisted us with our investigations. Finally, I would also like to express the Committee's appreciation of the work done by  Mr Tim  Richmond who was  Clerk  to the Committee during the inquiry. 
-So much has been said by honourable members from both sides of this chamber during this debate that I wish to confine my remarks to a theme and to inject some rationality into the debate, particularly after having listened to the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges):  He promised us bouquets; he gave us a speech full of nettles and poison ivy. He described the major programs of the Department of Urban and Regional Development as not worth the paper they were written on. That was an unsubstantiated comment with nothing to back it. When we look at the fine series of programs in the estimates of the Department we find a total of almost $400m involved. This is a 250 per cent increase on the initiatives which began last year. It is not new for the Commonwealth to have a role with local government. To a certain extent it has always given specific grants to local government under section 96 of the Constitution. To a lesser extent it has had some regulation over loan programs. However, the increment- this 250 per cent increase in spending- shows something more: It reflects the initiatives the Government has taken over the last 18 months. It demonstrates that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Government have accepted full national responsibility for financing urban and regional development. It must be realised that if we are to have a national program we must integrate our spending programs. In the Budget paper related to urban and regional development the following is stated: 
In particular, the new emphasis being given to urban and regional development reflects a concern to promote greater equality of distribution and ease of access to the various urban amenities and facilities which improve the quality of life. 
I would add to that the extension of the quality of life is not confined to the cities. The Government has demonstrated its concern to assist local governments in country as well as city areas. I would emphasise our assistance in rural areas. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  denigrated our attitude and said that we had given little to rural areas and most to the States. If one adds up the programs one will find a definite bias, particularly in the program of area improvement. The Grants Commission provides a form of assistance by way of untied nondirected grants to local government, which is a financial topping up exercise to add further finance to local government's coffers as long as they demonstrate a fair degree of independence and of striving to get their own finance. As their rates are based on land values rural areas have a much lower base from which to draw their income. When that is taken into account and applied to Grants Commission per capita grants we find a definate bias in favour of rural areas. It comes as no surprise to hear from the Opposition that there is a rural anti bias in the Labor Party but on examination, on rationally dissecting and analysing the programs, we find the reverse. Behind the rhetoric of the Opposition is a refusal to accept what is truth. 
Let me draw a few more contrasts between the attitude of the Government and the attitude of the Opposition to local government. In contrast to the Opposition which clearly is set to divide country and city because it wishes to maintain its shrinking power base- to demonstrate the lengths it will go to maintain that shrinking power base I need only mention that it would decimate the democratic principle of one vote one value- and vilify our policies for the rural sector, quite conveniently forgetting to point out the millions of dollars that are injected into the rural area through the several programs of the Government, and in particular the combined and integrated programs of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the Government, through the Minister, has undertaken detailed negotiations with the State governments and local governments. This is evident in the cooperation he has found with State governments which are willing to listen to rational argument, rational discourse and sensible policies that will result in a fairer deal for those who live in urban areas. The Minister is undertaking to achieve the Government's objective of equalising access to services for all Australians. In the 23 years when the Opposition was in government we found a definite drift to the cities. At one stage one in every three people lived in rural areas but now less than IS per cent do. In other words that drift has meant halving of the percentage living in rural areas. The Government is determined to reverse that drift even at the risk of possibly helping some of the Country Party's ailing support. We do that benevolently. 
-I thought I might. I know the soft spot in your policies. My soft spot is in my heart for you. The growth of new cities will aid our decentralisation program. There is an injection of funds in area improvement programs and sewerage programs. The latter, incidentally, will be extended to all towns with a population of 20,000 or more. The previous Government had no national sewerage program. As a result of the Labor Government's activities the benefits of the cities will also be enjoyed in country areas. There will be direct and indirect benefits to those now living in increasingly overcrowded cities because growth pressures will be lessened and there will be an injection of population and growth in rural areas. 
The Australian Government wishes to lift the role of local government to its rightful level as a full partner in our constitutional system. Finance is the greatest lack of local government. Its lack prevents local government from being able to exercise power. However in association with the greater finance injected by the Australian Government must go a greater acceptance of responsibility. I ask honourable members to consider the Opposition's hypocritical and fallacious charge that this Government is centralist. In one breath the honourabe member for Petrie said we are a centralist socialist government- that expression comes off the tongue as easy as a swear word to members opposite- but in the next breath he said that the Australian Government is nothing more than a tax collecting agency. I wish he would make up his mind. How can it be an agency and also be a centralist power? If the honourable member would consider this Government's development programs rationally, he would find that we have a national program. 
Every integrated aspect of the program of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development will demonstrate an emphasis on integration and on a national approach. Without that national approach we can never overcome the neglect of previous years when the Opposition was in government. To demonstrate that we are noncentralist we have set up several impartial bodies, commissions or interim committees. We have the Grants Commission, about which I have spoken, and the National Estate Commission which will be set up after the formation of an earlier committee. The officers of these impartial bodies are able to discuss lucidly and at length with State governments and other bodies. As the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  briefly, adequately and succinctly put it, the POliCY of this Government is consultation not confrontation. The Opposition pulls its policies and the amounts to fund them out of a hat and announces them off the top of its head. The Opposition would cut expenditure by 8 per cent. I do not suppose that members of the Opposition would go to the local governments in their areas and explain that they would receive less if the Opposition were unfortunately to come to government. 
It is a balanced, national and integrated program that must.not, under any circumstances, be threatened by the replacement of this Government by an Opposition which has proved to be hypocritical and to have a lack of foresight and a lack of consultation with the Cinderella of governments, local government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Can the 
Minister inform the House whether the unemployment figures now prepared by the Australian Bureau of Statistics refer to applications for employment or registrations of unemployment? What differences do any new calculations reflect upon the actual level of unemployment and what effect will the fiscal proposals outlined by the Prime Minister in this House last night have on those levels of unemployment? 
-In rising to speak on this Bill I remind the House that we are debating the appropriation of a total of $66. 1 lm to the States for the upgrading of urban public transport systems. Of that amount, $27.85m is to be allocated in the financial year 1974-75. 1 point out to honourable members that this sum is in addition to the $7 1.91m allocated under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974. That means a total of a little more than $138m has been allocated to the States for the first 2 years of our 5-year assistance program. 
The allocation to Victoria of $40.32m is on the basis of two-thirds of the total Victorian program of $60. 5m. Details of that program have been outlined. That allocation is made up of $640,000 for bus services, nearly $36m for rail services and $3.38m for tram services. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  said that much of the moneys allocated would be worthless because of inflation. I can only point out that if the Opposition parties had not brought about a double dissolution and forced this Government to an election, not only would these Bills have been debated much earlier but these funds would have been allocated much earlier to the States which desparately need this money to upgrade their public transport systems. They cannot do this from their own funds. 
People from Melbourne only have to cast their eyes over the rolling stock that operates on the Melbourne train network to realise that 500 of Melbourne's carriages are more than 45 years old. In fact I am informed that many of these units were made prior to the turn of the century, making some of them 75 yean old or more. One has only to travel on a bus in the Melbourne area to become aware in the course of that journey that some of these buses are more than 20 years old. Half of Melbourne's trams are more than double that age. 
The honourable member for Gippsland pointed out that with these funds only 2 trams would be purchased. I might remind him that that will be 2 more trams than his Government was willing to assist the Victorian government to purchase. I cannot make too much of the fact that this is the first ever Australian government contribution which commenced with the States Grant (Urban Public Transport) Bill, the provisions of which were outlined in our 1973-74 Budget. 
In that debate, the honourable member for Gippsland chided the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  for his lack of facts. Yet, when we heard from him that his Government in 1969 spoke often about the need for Federal government involvement and spoke often of some rather secret plans that were involved in helping the States, we did not hear of any action. It was a matter of deeds being replaced by words. What the Victorian Government and what all State governments need if they are to provide adequate public transport are deeds and not words. This is the very essence of what we are debating- allocations to turn words and plans into deeds. Yet, the honourable member for Gippsland did not mention that his study which took many years to carry out was a secret study; it was not to be made public. But this Government has tabled here several reports from the Bureau of Transport Economics - 
The honourable member seeks to interrupt. I point out that he went so far as to threaten to put the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Whitlam),  the then Leader of the Opposition, in jail for talking about a so-called secret plan when it is obvious that if we want to honour the concept of open government and if we want to inform the public what is to be done with their funds, we should inform the public constantly through public reports tabled in this Parliament and described elsewhere just where its money is going. 
Much of the area in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne depends heavily upon private bus services. It should be remembered that private bus operators provide a public service. I have been advised, in consultation with these bus operators, that they can provide the same form of public transport system at about 20c a mile less than the operating costs of comparative government systems. But without support from government, they must raise their fares. Here I must compliment the Premier of Victoria for providing some small measure- $ lm- to help these private bus operators to keep their fares down. Any move to keep fares down is to be complimented. Without support, bus operators will have to increase their fares further. They raised them five or six months ago by 10 per cent. As a result, they experienced a 25 per cent decline in patronage. However on the other hand I do not think that if fares were reduced there would be a similar rise in patronage. A 10 per cent increase in fares resulted in a 25 per cent decline in patronage. This is not good enough. What I call the pioneering areas, the developing suburbs, that are without an adequate train or fixed rail service must rely upon bus services. The greatest cost increase incurred by private bus operators has been in the wages paid to drivers. They cannot take a driver on for an hour or two, send him home to another job, then take the driver on again and pick up the kids after school. Drivers have to be paid whether or not a complete bus service runs. So the operators are caught in the squeeze between operating an adequate service and trying to recoup their outlay from fares. Obviously this problem has to be recognised. The Australian Government has recognised it in Western Australia and South Australia. 
I draw to the Government's attention the drop-off in services in the pioneering eastern suburbs of Melbourne. These services will further decrease unless some examination is made of their operating costs. I understand from the Minister that such a study is being carried on. There are several possible solutions. The operators of the private bus services have indicated that they would like to see, for instance, their bus services taken over by the Government. This is an example of private enterprise suggesting that it be nationalised. Those operating this private system have said that they would prefer to work for salaries and to manage a government bus service if they were taken over. That is one possible solution. Another recommendation is that we adopt the practice that applies in New Zealand and the United Kingdom, where bus operators are excused from paying excise duty on petrol. This would reduce operating costs quite substantially. 
I do not know the answers. What is required is a study. It is comforting to learn from the Minister that a study has just begun in consultation with the private bus operators to find out what is needed in the way of support which will be equitable and which will keep up these services. I understand that the report will be ready in about 6 months and will form the basis for decisions on how best to maintain these services. We should also question- I hope the study questions itwhether or not a bus service is environmentally sound. Those conducting the study should examine what sort of propellant is being used in the buses, analyse what fumes are created, and consider whether buses would block the traffic and whether it would be better to try some alternative to fixed rail. In many of the eastern suburbs of Melbourne the topography does not lend itself to a fixed rail system, so new road systems must be developed to carry fast through bus services. It would be impossible, for instance, to provide anything but bus services, privately or government operated, to Mount Evelyn, Monbulk and Mount Dandenong. These are rather mountainous or hilly areas in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne. Yet people living there, school children and pensioners, rely on public transport. So I compliment the Minister on his study and I ask him to consider the environmental facets of the study as well as the pure economics of the situation. 
I turn now to the advances that will be made by the Victorian Government through the cooperation of the Australian Government in developing fixed rail services in the Ringwood corridor. These rail services serve the outer eastern suburbs. The line to Box Hill has 3 tracks and the line from there to Ringwood is double track. The 13 kilometres of line from Ringwood to Lilydale is single track except for the 3.5 kilometres between Croydon and Mooroolbark, which causes a bottle-neck in the services to these developing outer suburbs. What is needed is a duplication of the 3.5 kilometres of track between Croydon and Mooroolbark. The 1 6.5 kilometres of track between Ringwood and Belgrave is single track except for 5 kilometres of double track between Bayswater and Ferntree Gully. 
This Bill provides for the allocation of funds to duplicate track so that faster and more comfortable services can be provided between Melbourne and Mooroolbark-Lilydale, and Belgrave. It will provide for a third platform at Ringwood costing $0.7m with updated resignalling. The railways beyond Ringwood, although built in the 1880s, were electrified in the 1920s. Between Lilydale and Healesville an irregular diesel service is still operating. Development has gone past Lilydale, has centred on Coldstream and is extending towards Healesville despite the encouragement by the Victorian Government of expansion in the Sunbury-Melton area. Commutors in the areas I have mentioned are being deprived of an adequate rail service. Yet the Victorian Government has threatened to close down the line between Lilydale and Healesville. Surely there is an inconsistency, a contradiction, in overall planning. A corridor of growth has been established, yet the Victorian Government wishes to close down the railway service operating to Healesville. I suggest that it might benefit the Victorian Government if it were to provide to the Bureau of Transport Economics sufficient data to work out what is needed in this area. If this line were closed Healesville would suffer the fate that has been experienced in the twin town of Warburton not far away. The Victorian Government closed the railway line servicing this area and replaced it with a private bus line. I have been informed by the many people who live out that way that the fares rose soon afterwards. Warburton is now a dead-end town in the sense that it does not have adequate public transport to join the main stream of traffic through Lilydale and Croydon into the central business district. 
This may not seem important to the honourable member for Gippsland but to the people who live in the area, particularly the people in Healesville, it is vital. There is a possibility that this thriving tourist town, which has instigated a deal with the Victorian railways to start a railway tourist package, will lose its rail service. People are now able to obtain a low priced ticket to travel to Healesville and discover the beauties of that area. All of this is under threat. The development of an infrastructure in that town which could provide many amenities enjoyed by those in the city will be threatened unless the capacity of that town to earn income from tourists is maintained. 
In discussing this matter important questions are involved. We should consider whether or not we should duplicate the line between Ferntree Gully and Belgrave. I understand that although the duplication of the line will go as far as Ferntree Gully it will not go beyond. This is because the Victorian Government has never applied for assistance to duplicate the Ferntree Gully to Belgrave section. It has not even discussed such a project with the Bureau of Transport Economics. The 1973-74 upgrading submission requested assistance, as I said, for track duplication of the Ringwood to Croydon and Ringwood to Bayswater sections, but no application was made to take the duplication through to Belgrave. This could be beneficial or it could be a bad thing for those who live in the Belgrave area. Consideration of the matter has quite rightly been deferred due to lack of data. 
I say that it is a mixture of good and bad because in the total evaluation beyond economics we must consider the environmental questions. First of all, will future demand in the BelgraveUpweyTecoma area require a double track? Of course, a double track could be provided to satisfy demand, but in turn it could create demand. In saying that it could create demand I mean that a double track is more likely to increase the desire for urbanisation of this area, and increased urbanisation could be in conflict with the environmental planning of the Dandenong Ranges. Undoubtedly the proposed new planning authority for the Dandenongs and the Yarra Valley should express a view on this matter to the Victorian Government and, in turn, to the Burea of Transport Economics. The answer possibly lies in preparing an overall transportation study of the area. I point this out not only for parochial reasons but also to get across to honourable members the fact that in planning for transport one cannot look at rail transport in isolation, at road transport in isolation or at private and public transport each in isolation. One must plan with an overall, total, integrated view so that one produces an economically and environmentally sound plan. If I could look into my crystal ball beyond this 5-year program to when the Victorian Government has possibly provided the necessary data, I think I could expect that this duplication would take place, but further upgrading beyond that would be environmentally undesirable. 
I turn to another omission from the Victorian Government proposals, that is, the very important link between Huntingdale and Ferntree Gully. This would provide a spur line, origninally created in the .1965 transportation study, to feed the central business district of Melbourne. However we find- I thank the honourable member for Gippsland for this information- that only 150,000 commuters work in the central business district out of a total working population of 1.2 million. That number has not increased to the expectations of the planning bases of the 1965 study, but we have seen a change in demand for transport in the area that would be served by that spur line- I now have many constituents who need to get to Monash University to satisfy their tertiary education requirements. At present they get there by hitch hiking or by their own private transport. As I mentioned earlier, the private bus operators are unable to supply an adequate north-south direction transport service which would meet the needs. 
If the link were provided it would establish fast commuter transport for students to Monash University. It would open up alternative areas of employment for the people of the Ferntree Gully, Boronia and Knoxfield area and give them a greater job choice. People often forget that there is a relationship between adequate transport and employment. This is a fine exam.ble of what could happen if this spur line were provided- It would also enable the Knox Council to go ahead with its planning for the expansion of a township at Rowville. At the moment people who live in Rowville are considered to live in a no-man's-land. They are half way between the city of Dandenong and the Mountain GateScoresby area. Once the Victorian Government can provide the route of the spur line the Australian Government can provide the $2.2m necessary for acquisition and then the council can go ahead with planning around that spur railway line to develop Rowville to its proper potential. The Australian Government and the Australian Minister for Transport are to be congratulated on being the initiators of action in pumping extra funds into the various State programs for developing and upgrading adequate public transport. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question about government archives. Is he prepared to release for public scrutiny government records for the first week of March 1971? Will he agree that these records have a bearing on current events? 
by leave- This report from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation entitled 'Environmental Impact of Freeways'. The Impact of State Highway 23 on Blackbutt 
Reserve, Newcastle; New South Wales' is the second report to be tabled by the Committee in the 29th Parliament. The inquiry into the impact of a State highway on Blackbutt Reserve in Newcastle was undertaken as a case study based on the wider reference of the. social and environmental impact of freeways on urban areas. The Committee's major aim was to examine the proposed route of State Highway 23 to see if it would cause any significant damage to the social, recreational, and environmental amenities of Blackbutt Reserve. This reserve enjoys a substantial popularity amongst the residents of Newcastle. Although not unique in the scientific sense, its location close to the heart of Newcastlea distance of only 7 kilometres- and its possession of a wide variety of flora and fauna make it an asset of great value. Blackbutt Reserve is invaluable to present residents and future generations. No form of compensation could make up for its loss. To safeguard the amenities of the reserve there is a need for a comprehensive management plan to be established to ensure that it is not damaged by over-use, due to its popularity. 
The Committee, therefore, recommends the establishment of a Blackbutt Reserve management committee, comprised of representatives from the Newcastle City Council, community groups and an ecologist to draw up and implement the plan. The Committee believes that the worth of the reserve as a whole has been placed in jeopardy by the proposal to construct State Highway 23 through the western portion of it. This area is, in fact, the most attractive part of the reserve. The need for such a road through the reserve has not been proven. A comprehensive transport survey is necessary before decisions with such far-reaching consequences can be made. To date none has been completed. 
The Committee is aware of a comprehensive investigation into the transport needs of the Newcastle region, which is currently being undertaken. No decision on the need for a road of freeway standard should be taken until the results of this inquiry are available. The penetration of Blackbutt Reserve by State Highway 23 would result in a rapid deterioration of the highly attractive western portion of the reserve. The immediate effect would be an increase in both air and noise pollution and a consequent reduction in the amenity of the area now enjoyed by so many people. The whole reserve will eventually be affected. The Committee is convinced that this situation can be avoided. There are viable alternatives to the proposed route of State 
Highway 23 that would not destroy the reserve. These alternatives are detailed in the report. 
During the course of the inquiry the Committee became aware of the desire of various communities affected by the freeway proposal to become involved in the decision making process. As a result, one of the Committee's major recommendations is the implementation of environmental impact statement procedures in cases such as this. This would allow public participation at a very early stage. To ensure that the final decision is in the best interests of the community as a whole, it is important that the decision making process provide a means that will clearly establish whether the suggested proposal is the most satisfactory of the alternatives available. As a result of this particular case study, the Committee has arrived at 2 general conclusions regarding road systems in urban areas. The Committee has concluded that wherever possible roads of freeway standard should not pass through urban areas. Where arterial roads must pass through an urban area preference should be given to upgrading the existing arterial roads rather than having a new road of freeway standard. Finally, the Committee was pleased with the interest generated by the inquiry and impressed by the concern of organisations and people who assisted us with our investigations. The result was a high degree of public participation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. Is he aware of British Airways' recently announced plan to operate Concorde nights from London to Melbourne from mid- 1976 onwards on the grounds that Melbourne airport has fewer environmental problems than Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport? What is the Minister's attitude to this plan? 
-The Electoral Bill 1974 tackles yet another area of overdue electoral reform. Along with the principles for which the Australian Labor Party has fought of one vote one value, the easing of voting procedures and the facilitating of results to express the wish of the people, the Government now wishes to bring in legislation that will enact 2 demands by the public- for the limitation of electoral expenditure and for public disclosure of the source of funds. I will deal first with the matter of electoral expenditure. The Bill sets out to increase the allowable amount to be spent by parties and candidates. Obviously the current limits are hopelessly inadequate. I ask honourable members: Who can run a reasonable campaign on the present limit of $500 for each candidate for the House of Representatives or $1,000 for a Senate candidate? The simple answer is that the limits are outmoded and unrealistic. 
I remind the House that the $500 is required for a whole range of campaign materials and media- for instance, to purchase advertising, to print pamphlets, to pay for petrol, to pay for rental for an office, to print and distribute howtovote cards and to pay for broadcasting. I give an example of what is spent. I thank the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  for raising the example. One example of big spending in a campaign occurred in 1972 when his colleague, the present honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  swamped the former honourable member for Sturt,  Mr Foster,  with a deluge of advertising. It was claimed by the present honourable member for Sturt in an interview which was printed in the 'Australian' that he was proud to say that he spent on campaigning the equivalent of the cost of 2 chocolate bars and a pie and sauce, I think it was, on each elector in his electorate. I ask the honourable member for Bennelong why the honourable member for Sturt would spend this amount. I recall that the total amount was $28,000. Why would the honourable member for Sturt spend that amount of money if he did not think that it would bring results? Is he going to say: 'I spent $28,000 anyway, despite my rhetoric, despite my ability, despite my arguments and my policies and platform, to persuade the electorate'? I think only an idiot would believe that course of argument. In my own campaign I had to suffer my Liberal opponent spending what has been estimated to be 4 times the amount that I was able to spend. 
The current law is flouted and must be repealed. The present position is a farce. There would not be a politician in any State or in this House who does not generally contravene the provisions of the Act. Under the legislation politicians are limited to spending no more than $500 on their election campaign. The average expenditure in an electorate, even forgetting some of the larger rorts in spending on advertising, is around $5,000. In fact, if we were to claim our expenditure was $500 we would be committing perjury. So most of us fail to fill in our declaration forms showing the amounts we have spent. Electoral officials say that they cannot remember anyone ever being prosecuted for breaching the law. The present law encourages neither obedience nor prosecution for disobedience. The limits on spending, as I have said, are farcically low. Many candidates have said both publicly and privately that their campaign has cost many more dmes the amount they have claimed on their expenses returns. As the Minister summarised so aptly, unenforcible, unrealistic law is bad law. 
If we must change the law we might ask: What is a reasonable limit that will not favour the encumbent over the challenger? What amount will not give large parties an advantage over small parties or an individual? What amount will permit each candidate to canvass thoroughly his platform and policies and not restrict the flow of information to the electors, which is so vital for them to make a judgment and a proper deliberation on the alternatives available? But substantial amounts of money should not be spent on pop' advertising. What balance can we strike between unfair advantage and political freedom? Australia's people have requested that the changes be made. Not only in Australia but also overseas has there been demand for a limit on advertising. The United States House of Representatives on 1 1 August last year passed a Campaign Financing Reform Bill which is designed to halt fund raising abuses such as those which occurred in the 1972 presidential election. So I would remind the honourable member for Bennelong that, rather than preceding the debacle called Watergate and all its attendant impact on democratic elections, the restrictions followed the abuses and were a direct result of those abuses. 
This Bill is designed to prevent, to circumvent, those sorts of abuses. The United States legislation went through almost unnoticed amid the furore of  President  Nixon's resignation. The Bill was passed by 355 votes to 48 less than 2 hours before he tendered his resignation. In other words, the voting numbers showed almost across the board agreement, regardless of party, that this was a desirable limitation on electoral expenditure. The Bin limits presidential candidates to an expenditure of $10m. The general election expenditures were set down at $20m. But for individual candidates the House set a $60,000 limit on congressional campaign spending and $75,000 or- this is the important part- 5c per citizen of the State for Senate contests. We have taken a leaf from the United States book. We have taken a similar perspective after taking into account the different sizes of our electorates and the style of our campaigns. 
I would tike to point out one factor that has been overlooked. The present Act set an absolute limit. There is no growth factor to take account of the increase in the size of electorates. By gearing a set amount to each of the electors we have an inbuilt growth factor. For example, now I am required to spend a maximum of $500, the same amount as my predecessor,  Mr Jess,  was able to spend when he won the seat in 1969 with only 55 000 electors. When I was elected in 1972 that number had crept to 69 000. Now if an election were held tomorrow, heaven forbid, I would have to spend not more than $500 to campaign to 85 000 voters. If we do not put a limit on spending, the Australian counterparts of the Kennedys and the Rockefellers would be the only ones who could run for office. We do not support the attitude of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who advocated the abolition of any limit. It must be the right of all to run for Parliament. To allow unbridled expenditure would deny poorer citizens and independents equality of opportunity to effectively stand for Parliament. 
The other aspect of this very important reform in electoral matters is the public disclosure of the sources of party funds. This will end the secret donations system by which outside organisations can supposedly exert financial pressure on governments. The fear the public has is that these secret donors exert a behind-the-scenes influence on Opposition pontics and policies, and on governments. How far is this fear justified? In a book called 'Looking at the Liberals' launched by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  and edited by an ex-Press Gallery journalist, that journalist claimed that Central Intelligence Agency money was available to the Liberals to fight the last election campaign in May. He said the funds were available without asking and with no strings attached. The right honourable member for Lowe, the former Prime Minister, stated that to his knowledge his Party did not receive money from the CIA. But whether the Liberal Party did or did not receive that money is only half the story. The public will not be content unless it is aware that this is not occurring. Freedom from outside interference, particularly from a foreign country, must not only be a fact but also must be seen to be a fact, and this is what this Bill does. 
The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said that the Bill is authoritarian. This Bill has full public support. According to a Gallup poll published in September last year 80 per cent of all Australians think that political parties should say where their money comes from. The poll questioned 2014 people aged 16 or more in all States and asked: 'Do you think that political parties in Australia should be required by law to reveal the sources of their funds?' The replies varied only slightly according to political opinions. A total of 85 per cent of Australian Labor Party voters answered 'Yes' compared with 77 per cent of Liberal-Country Party voters. But single polls are often misleading so I turn to yet another poll taken one year earlier and published in September 1973. That poll found that 58 per cent of Australians were against companies or individuals making large donations to political parties. A convincing 78 per cent said that political parties should be obliged to supply full details of the sources of their income, they key to the proposals in this Bill. 
The Opposition can make small talk of the public's concern. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  can talk of his little old lady's omelette and of his gifts of loaded dice and ludo sets to his colleagues but his act of frivolity gives the he to his concern and to any substance in his rebuttal. Perhaps a snakes and ladders set might have been more appropriate for his Party and his friends in New South Wales who are sliding down too many snakes and have not climbed a ladder for many years. 
As my friend has said, why not a monopoly set? That would be more in the Opposition 's line. The difference is that when this Bill goes through they will not collect an unexplained $200, passing gaol or not. But rising above all this nonsense is the concern of the people which can be summed up in these words: 'Beware of those bearing gifts'. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I be the first in a normal debate to congratulate you on your elevation to your present position. It has been easy to serve under you in your position of  Chairman  of Committees. I know from that we can expect to experience only the best of your ability in your new position. 
I had hoped to speak for longer than the time available to me. I believe that the debate has not been adequate and two matters have certainly been ignored in their more important parts by the Opposition. I refer to the role of a national government in the field of housing and how comparative overseas governments have tackled their national responsibility. The second point is the need for flexible government assistance in hardship cases brought about perhaps by a drop in income experienced by home purchasers, by an unemployment situation which brings about hardship in meeting payments due to a depleted income and finally by a sudden call-up for people to meet all the finance they have undertaken to purchase their own homes, perhaps on vendor's terms or on an interest rate only payment arrangement. 
I rise also to rebut some of the more fallacious arguments put up by the Opposition. As a Government, we cannot claim originality for the concept of the Australian Housing Corporation. Similar bodies operate overseas. What we can claim is that we have studied similar overseas schemes and have adapted them to a uniquely Australian corporation that fits in with the Australian constitutional system, the Australian housing practice as we know it and Australian housing needs as we perceive and anticipate them. We have brought to Australia for the first time at national level- accepting a national responsibility- a national policy that complements, not competes with, State housing commissions and what we have benefited from in the private sector. But time does not really enable me to bring to the attention of the House a close examination of those overseas corporations. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  believes that the Australian Housing Corporation Bill will be a threat to State rights, an intrusion into State affairs and a monster body which will sweep aside State housing bodies. What is proposed in this legislation complements rather than competes with the State bodies which, I point out, really arose from the Commonwealth and State housing agreement of the Chifley Government in 1945. That agreement has led, I believe, to the construction of about 280 000 homes, mainly for those in the area of welfare housing. Nothing could be further from the truth than that contribution, that accusation, that charge by the honourable member for Boothby whose argument was so finally dispelled by, the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie).  The correct and proper responsibility for the States is in that area of welfare housing. 
The Australian Government does not have full constitutional power to perform all housing functions, but the full powers - available to the Government for housing have never really been fully taken up. That is what the Government proposes to do. It proposes to explore the other avenues of assistance by a national government to home ownership in this country. The national responsibility for housing would never have been taken up if the Chifley Labor Government had not started the ball rolling. As I said, 280 000 homes have been constructed under the scheme which the Chifley Government introduced. The previous Government could not dismantle these arrangements but it could and did avoid developing a national housing policy. The previous Government- the Liberal-Country Party coalition- did not develop a national housing policy as such. It was content to use the arguments of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  to rely hopefully on stable interest rates. What a narrow viewpoint, divorced from the real economic situation. It ignores the need for the national government to construct policies which are compatible with flexible economic policies. 
The previous Government could not have coped with the dilemma that faced this country when the McMahon Government allowed a rapidly inflating money supply to precipitate the worst inflationary period since the Menzies Government in 1952-53. Let us examine what the Liberal-Country Parties would have done. Either they would have let excess demand ripwith inflation rife in the building industry- so that interest rates remained relatively stable or they would have let interest rates rip and, by their own admission in this debate, destroyed their own simple housing policy based, hopefully, on stable interest rates. They have never developed a policy to cope with a change in interest rates or a change in economic circumstances. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  stated quite accurately that the building sector has dominated and has been used for economic management. How often have we heard complaints from the private builders, the private sector of the housing industry, that they are the first sector to be hit, that they are the ones to suffer economic collapse. For 23 years they have experienced this situation. Until we are in a position to bring in new initiatives in national policy they will continue to suffer. But now, due to the enterprise of the Minister for Housing and Construction and due to the content of this Bill, we can look forward to better fortunes in the private building sector. 
The Opposition would have continued its homes savings grant scheme. Let us examine what was achieved with that scheme. It has been justly criticised because it really only helped those under 36 years of age. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  who is interjecting, would not have qualified. He is about double that age. The scheme has been criticised because it helped people to buy only their first home. If they had to move assistance from the national government was not available. It only helped those on incomes and with responsibilities which would enable some savings to be made. It ignored those who were never in a position to be able to save in the first place. The grant did not close the deposit gap to any great extent. What it did- as the honourable member for Bendigo will realise, having operated and worked in the building industrywas to add to the price of the land-house unit. In other words, like most subsidies which were brought in by the previous Government, these subsidies end up in the pocket of the seller and support an inflationary market for the particular commodity. 
Let us examine what the Housing Corporation can do to assist hardship cases. This Government has tried to shelter low income people from high interest rates. I recall that many honourable members who have spoken in this debate have said that this Government has protected low income people by increasing Housing Agreement advances to the States; by promoting increased lending by savings banks- $ 130m on loans in the last increase; by providing in the tax deductibility of interest paid on housing loans a benefit which, for people on low incomes, is as good and as effective as a reduction in interest rates of up to 3 per cent. 
I would like to recount a situation that is not uncommon in outer suburban or inner suburban areas. It is a situation where couples wishing to purchase their own homes are attracted- indeed lured- by attractive advertisements and billboards announcing that unlimited finance is available on low deposit, with vendor's terms, only $ 1 ,200 to $ 1 ,500 needed and 5 years paying interest only. This is not a new situation. It is one that has existed for many years. 'The family negotiates and no solicitor is required', is the usual spiel. These arrangements say that the vendor makes all the contractual arrangements. The vendor kindly shares his solicitor with the purchaser. What happens? After 5 years the buyer has no increased equity in the house. If he cannot pay out the loan he must refinance it.  His  equity is too low to arrange alternative finance through a bank or a building society. I take the case of one constituent of mine, a purchaser of a landhouse unit in an estate in Croydon.  His  case is typical of 20 others in the same street and hundreds on this estate and similar estates. 
These people were taken down, as the honourable member for Diamond Valley says in summarising the situation. These people purchased through an agent, Kappel, who was the subject of another speech in this House by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow),  from a developer, Evington Holdings, which built and operated during the housing boom, the product of the previous Government in late 1 972 and 1973. As this company has now found itself under-financed it has been forced to call up money owed on the houses. To save their homes these people are now forced to refinance their loans not 5 years after purchase, which they expected to do in the normal course, but 12 to 1 8 months after purchase. My constituent informs me that in the private housing finance sector he cannot get a loan to cover the purchase price or a first mortgage loan at interest rates of less than 12 per cent. He has to turn to a second mortgage. If he is lucky to get one he will have to bear a rate of interest of 1 6 per cent to 1 8 per cent. He needs reasonable finance to protect his family shelter. 
As I said, this is not new. Cases similar to this have been going on for 20 years. The previous Government did nothing about the situation. We intend to do something. Means which might be used depend upon the development of the powers and the functions of the Corporation. One way in which the Corporation might act would be to take over the loan by purchasing the property and paying off the lending institution to which the payments are due. Having done this the Corporation would allow the borrower to remain in possession of the property on the basis of a loan by the Corporation on terms that the borrower could afford. These terms would have regard to the family circumstances as well as the income of the borrower. When the hardship is of a temporary nature, such as in the case of unemployment, it would be possible for the terms of the loan by the Corporation to be changed to reduce the concession so that assistance is not provided to people who do not need it. 
This is an area which produces 2 problemstemporary finance and an emergency situation. For the first time under a new Minister we have a national policy that will cope with such situations. It is an indictment of the previous Government that no national policy such as this was introduced earlier, but now those income groups above a welfare level but not in a high enough income bracket to be able to fend easily for themselves are offered a new opportunity to protect their homes. For these people the goalthe dream- of their own home is not threatened by some exploiter in the private finance sector but is protected. I commend the Bill to the House and I urge the Opposition to rethink its position, not to reject this Bill but to pass it through this House. 
It is always a pleasure to follow such an impassioned and reasonable  speaker  as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  But it is fortunate having to follow such a  speaker  because my contribution can be considered to be more dispassionate than some of the other contributions to this debate if I had followed them. There has been a strong and sometimes vitriolic public attack on the Family Law Bill and there has been an emotional attack on it in this House itself. The Bill has been denounced as unchristian, a marriage breaker, a nation destroyer, one which neglects the rights and obligations of women and men and the rights and welfare of children. Such claims misrepresent the Bill totally and unashamedly. The public campaign by, if I may say so, a highly organised and obsessed minority has gone well beyond the bounds of reason and credibility. It has reached the point where those who are genuinely concerned with the Family Law Bill question the motives of its opponents. 
I had occasion to debate this Bill publicly in my own electorate with  Senator Alan  Missen and was subjected at that public meeting to a rather great amount of organised abuse- organised from well outside my own electorate. The arguments put up against us were hard to follow. Although these people wished to hold the debate, strangely enough they denied us the opportunity to put clearly and without interruption our reasons for publicly supporting the Bill. Part of their scare tactics was to link the moves of 2 years ago for reform in the abortion laws with the moves to reform the marriage laws. Incidentally, I recognised at that meeting the same people opposing reform in the divorce laws as those who opposed that abortion law reform. I say that those people who opposed abortion law reform 2 years ago and who now support the Family Law Bill have a right to be shocked at how their former colleagues in that earlier fight have debased this public debate. The debate in this House has had similar overtones, although one would have hoped that this chamber would have produced calm, reasoned, dispassioned argument on both sides. 
Once again I compliment those people on both sides who have contributed rationally and reasonably to the debate. The greatest weapon wielded in this debate by the opponents to the 
Bill has been misrepresentation. They have presented written speeches which must have been stored for years because they ignored the changes which have been made to the original Bill introduced into the other House several years ago. They have ignored the part that churches, social groups, the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, and marriage guidance counsellors and social workers have played in producing this Bill. Their attack is misplaced because they have ignored the widely accepted amendments. They have invented hypothetical situations to prove their points. They have ignored the majority of situations that occur in real life. For example, one suggestion was that a woman would allow, under the new Family Law Bill, her husband to flaunt his intimacy with his mistress - 1 suppose the same goes for a woman flaunting u. intimacy with her lover- for 12 months in the same house in front of her and the children and that still she would have no comeback. That suggestion is not only fantasy and improbable but also reduces a woman or a man to an idiot. It ignores the fact that the woman- or the man- and her family would be better off without the scoundrel or that she could apply for an injunction pending divorce proceedings. 
They have completely ignored clause 114 which allows an appeal to a court before proceedings commence so that she may bring about an injunction for physical protection, mental protection or welfare protection for herself or the family. The opponents of this Bill have attempted deliberately to mask the fact that all their created situations would have been treated similarly under the present law. They want us to believe that this Bill would put the couple in a worse situation. Nothing could be further from the truth. Their backers in the public forum, through their letters to newspaper editors, their letters to the public and their pressure firstly on senators and now on members of this House, have carried on that misrepresentation. The opponents of this Bill say that the Bill is unchristian. The role of the state is to concern itself with the secular side to marriage and not to impose the beliefs, values or doctrines of religion- any particular religion- on to the public. Clause 43 of the Bill outlines the approach of a secular nature that shall be taken towards marriage. The first principle to be applied by the courts will be: 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life. 
I submit that if people are to enter marriage voluntarily for a lifetime, as they hopefully do, they should not then be refused a voluntary exit from that voluntary contract. Further principles to be considered by the courts are: 
the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society, particularly while it is responsible for the care and education of dependant children; 
the need to protect the rights of children and to promote their welfare. 
Those are, quite rightly, secular responsibilities and secular principles. 
The consequences of forcing a religious approach on the people should also be contemplated. I submit that it would deny the freedom of religion by refusing opposing views to religion and within religion- that is, differing views on marriage even within denominations. We all know of the differing attitudes that now exist in different denominations to the remarriage of divorced persons. There are splits in many of the denominations and between denominations those who wish to remarry are considered differently. Therefore we can say that there is not a united attitude to marriage amongst the Christian denominations. Those who hold a particular, strong Christian viewpoint are not threatened by this Bill. They will not be forced or even encouraged to break their beliefs to gain divorces. Those who uphold this belief must have an extremely low moral threshhold if they require external discipline by way of law to uphold what they have taken in in spirit. On the other hand, if people hold that view and later find that it is not realistic, it is wrong to impose that former view on them by law. To do so, to prevent the dissolution of marriage, to overrestrict the period of qualification to establish irretrievable breakdown of marriage, is to impose, in a phrase, 'conscription within marriage ', with its undesirable anti-social effects. 
I ask those who oppose a simple approach to granting a dissolution of marriage following a proven irretrievable breakdown situation why they wish to force unwilling partners to live together. Do they really uphold conscription within marriage? Those who hold or share the Christian ideals of love, compassion and understanding should share the view expressed by the Church of England Social Questions Committee which wrote to members of Parliament on 6 February 1975 under the signature of  Mr Patrick,  the  Chairman.  That letter stated, in part: .... that the Family Law Bill, as amended by the Senate, is soundly based on that principle. . . . While there would be a few marriages saved from divorce by providing for the longer period, other consequences would also follow: 
Being conscious that two years is a very long time to wail, people will be prone to separate without making a genuine effort of reconciliation; 
Having once made the break, people will be resistant to their own feelings in favour of reconciliation, and to the good offices of people trying to achieve a reconciliation; 
There will be, for many, a strong temptation to give false evidence as to the commencement of the period of separation. 
It concluded by saying: 
Factors of these kinds, in the judgment of the Committee, would greatly outweigh the benefits of requiring a period of separation significantly longer than 12 months. 
It is not my judgment. I cannot make a value judgment as to whether 12 months, 14 months, 2 years or 5 years is the correct period. I can only rely on those who are intimately concerned with the values, the construction and the strength of marriage as it contributes to the individuals in that family and to the nation as a whole. 
What I am advocating is opposition to the attitude of holy deadlock, not holy wedlock. Marriage for most Australians is a relationship between 2 people and it goes far beyond a simple contract. For most people a marriage is not the legal shell but the relationship between the spouses and the children. Likewise, the welfare of the family depends on that relationship and not simply on the law. It is generally accepted that a good family law should buttress, rather than undermine, the stability of marriage and that where a marriage has irretrievably broken down the legal shell should be destroyed with the maximum fairness and with the minimum bitterness, distress and humiliation. The future of the children of a broken marriage needs consideration by the best possible tribunal assisted by the skills of welfare officers and other counselling staff wherever needed. The financial disputes between spouses should be resolved as quickly and as finally as possible. The whole process should be performed with dignity, relative privacy and as little expense as possible. This 1 believe the Bill, as amended by the Senate, provides adequately. 
At that meeting in my electorate to which I referred earlier I asked those who opposed the Bill whether they would stand up and be counted as supporters of expensive divorces, of forcing people to live together although they did not wish to. I asked whether they wished to preserve, continue and perpetuate the difficulties, the stress and the strain that have led to so many social disruptions in later life following an unhappy relationship in a marriage situation. Half of that audience who opposed this Bill stood up and wanted to be counted as being opposed to putting a speedy, humane end to all that trouble- to all that lack of understanding in a situation of marriage. I can only condemn those who stood up to be counted and ask them to adduce those principles of compassion, love and humanity that they say is pan and parcel of the Christian religion. 
Rather than undermine families and marriage, the Bill strengthens them. What the opponents to this Bill are trying to preserve are unstable and unhealthy marriages where the relationship has broken down and become embittered; an environment in which children are likely to be greatly affected and exposed to pressures and tensions that develop insecurity and anti-social behaviour later in life; and huge incomes on which some lawyers- only somespecialising in divorce proceedings wax fat. It is the parties to a marriage who make or break that marriage. One cannot legislate to make good marriages, bad marriages, happy marriages or unhappy marriages. But what the law can do, and what this Bill does, is to encourage preparation and understanding of marriage. This Bill provides for the establishment of a family law council and an institute of family studies which I hope will adopt some of the more progressive ideas and attitudes of, say, Canada where children, through a gradual increase in content of the preparation for marriage in their school syllabuses, in turn are able to assimilate a greater understanding of marriage, and to study the responsibilities- financial, moral and so on- that come with a marriage. 
Surely preventative measures to create good marriages are the only way of preventing them from breaking up. It cannot be done by the law. It can be done only by social education. By creating a family court, reconciliation, discussion of the marriage situation and how it should be resolved or dissolved- peacefully, without bitterness or recrimination, fairly and equitably- is encouraged. Recognising irretrievable breakdown of marriage as evidenced by one year's separation as the sole ground for divorce encourages and provides for new, stable and more successful marriages. It should be noted that threequarters of divorced people re-marry and hardly ever more than once. In other words reasonable divorce laws- an opportunity to sever an unhappy, non-working marriage- contribute to the stability of new marriages. 
I know that one should not contribute to a debate his opinions based solely on personal experience, and I do not intend to do so. But I shall draw on the experience of thousands of people, who can say that a stable, happy and fruitful marriage can result from the dissolution of an unhappy, nonfruitful and unrewarding marriage. Over-restrictive divorce laws weaken marriage because people are forced into living 'in sin'- de facto relationships. If the law will not allow them to get round their situation they will find an 'illegal' way of doing so which is also immoral in the eyes of those who oppose this Bill. This Bill will not encourage divorce but will encourage marriage. The nature of marriage has changed and will continue to change despite the law and despite whether this Bill is passed. Divorce is not necessarily good, but marriage under some circumstances may be very bad. I wish to draw attention, before I finish my remarks in the shortened time available, to 2 letters which have been received from marriage guidance councils. The first letter is from the National Marriage Guidance Council of Australia. As I have stressed time and time again, I do not wish to intersperse into my locution my personal beliefs, but I shall rely heavily on preparing legislation based on wide experience through those concerned with marriage. The National Marriage Guidance Council of Australia passed this resolution: 
That this National Marriage Guidance Council of Australia, in relation to the Family Law Bill, August 1974, welcomes the removal of 'fault' and the introduction of 'irretrievable breakdown' as the sole ground for dissolution of marriage. Far from viewing the change as a threat to the basis of marriage in Australia, it views the Bill as upholding the voluntary principle in marriage and thus enhances the marital relationship. It is also pleased to see the opportunity taken for the introduction in the Bill of a uniform Australian law concerning maintenance of spouses and children. 
The second letter is from the Tasmanian Marriage Guidance Council Inc. dated 19 February under the signature of its President, G. Causon. It states: 
I am writing on behalf of the Tasmanian Marriage Guidance Council to express our support for the proposed Family Law Bill. It is our opinion that the old concept of matrimonial fault is not only wrong in princple but has adverse effects on relationships far beyond the denned issues of divorce and separation. We believe the concept of matrimonial offence actually hinders the process of relationship, reconciliation and growth which presumably it originally thought to protect. 
Fault should rightly be removed from the basis of divorce proceedings, but it is impossible for the court not to consider needs and welfare without it. The new examination of fault is to evaluate the future welfare and concern of all members of the family. This Bill outlines the principles of the family court- not the old court which was highly legalistic and argumentativebased on reasonableness, discussion and welfare principles, and takes into consideration the needs of each member of the family and their capacity to contribute to continuing welfare outside that existing marital relationship. 
I reject wholeheartedly the arguments that fault must be continued in any new law and that we must pinpoint fault to a single individual or apportion it between the two spouses. Invariably, if not completely, it can be shown that fault is built up over time and can be attributed to both spouses. There is no such thing in my mind as a completely innocent party to a marriage. Therefore the new proceedings under the Family Court, which are based on determining the continuing contribution of the partners of the dismembered marriage should be continued on a basis of need. It is only when we consider the needs of people rather than the legalistic rights of people, and base those rights on needs and contribution, that we can say we are preserving marriage, not as an outmoded institution but as a family unit of welfare which will lead to a better and stronger nation. I commend the Family Law Bill to the House. 
Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware of the recent dispute involving the sacking of 17 women at Dreffin Everhot Ltd, a manufacturing company in Bayswater, Victoria, in respect of which charges have been made by the sacked women that they have been sexually discriminated against? Is he aware of the allegations that some of the sacked women are single parents and the breadwinners of their families, while some of the men who now occupy their positions hold more than one job? Can the Minister inform the House what the responsibilities of the Australian Government are in this matter and what action the Government intends to take, especially as Australia has recently ratified the relevant International Labor  Organisation Convention No. Ill and this is United Nations International Women's Year? 
-As previous speakers have said, the object of the Interstate Commission Bill is to etablish an interstate commission as provided for and expected under section 101 of the Constitution. Except for the period 1913-1 920 the Australian political system has acted without an interstate commission. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in his second reading speech stated that its demise lies in the history of the wheat case and the decision of the High Court which later ruled that the Interstate Commission could not possess judicial powers. That commission was disbanded in 1950. This Bill avoids repetition of such a mistake. This Bill does not seek to cloak the ISC with curial or judicial powers. On the other hand it seeks to establish principles. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stated: 
A clearly developed and defined role for the commission will evolve over time and in the light of experience . . . one of the great anomalies of Australia's post-federation history that the concept of the interstate Commission, for which the founders of our Constitution obviously envisaged a major role in Federal relationships, as, except for a brief period 6 decades ago, been ignored by Australian Governments. 
After more than 2 years of careful planning the Government has now reached the stage where it can decide upon a role and structure for the commission. We believe this will enable the commission to function in a way which is consistent with its original conception. The powers of the Commission are set out in the Constitution, a section of which states:  . . . adjudication and administration as the Parliament deems necessary. 
The Constitution gives flexibility for the legislation to be changed as demands change which, in turn, create further changes. The provisions in the Bill are based on the interstate commission being given adjudicatory, investigatory, arbitration and administration functions in respect of which the Commission will be empowered to determine any necessary issues of fact. Its decisions would be appealable in matters of law to the High Court. I suppose any speech from the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  in referring to any measure introduced by this Government, would be amiss and a little strange if it did not make some reference to a charge that our measures were socialist and centralist. But even the greatest opponents of socialism today could not have erected as great a barrier to the development of socialism suitable for Australia than did the fathers of our Constitution. They were hardly known for their love of socialism. In fact, the greatest barriers to the implementation of socialist platforms or policies in Australia can be directly tied to the Constitution. I am sure these fathers would be disappointed to know that the legislation, expected to provide for carrying out a clause in the Constitution, has been decried as socialist and centralist by the Australian Country Party. 
If this is a socialist measure and a door to be opened then surely previous Labor governments since the Fisher Government- which established the commission- would have pursued the matter with greater vigour. If the honourable member for Gippsland still is not convinced and if he still wants recourse to change then I remind him of the words of his colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  a few minutes ago. He said that remedies he in appeals to the High Court and in legislative change. 
The honourable member for Wentworth was resplendent in his backing and filling today. He mentioned many reasons why there should be an interstate commission. On the same grounds and in the same rhetoric he removed them and decried them. 
Since 1920 there has been a continuous stream of recommendations and expressions of support for the reconstitution of the Commission. This has been from royal commissions, State governments, Parliamentary joint committees, 3 Senate select committees, naturally the Australian Labor Government and, oddly enough, I believe at times from the Country Party. The honourable member for Gippsland complained that the only notice of this Bill he had was a mention in a newspaper 2 weeks ago. The formally stated intention of the Labor Government in regard to an interstate commission have been frequent and stem from the following sources: The Australian 
Labor Party at its Launceston Conference, established in 1 97 1 as part of the Australian Labor Party platform: 
Establish the Interstate Commission to co-ordinate all types of interstate transport in Australia including rail, road, air, water and pipelines and to regulate conditions of 'carriage'. 
The Prime Minister in his 1972 policy speech said: 
The Interstate Commission was intended to end the centralisation fostered by all State governments through their railway systems. It should now provide not only for the coordination of our 6 mainland railway systems and our major ports in the period before the Commonwealth, like other Federal Governments, inevitably takes responsibility for railways and ports; it is also the ideal instrument for coordinating our major roads, and airlines and pipelines. A federal Labor Government will promptly restore the machinery the Constitution intended and vest it with the Commonwealth's full constitutional powers to plan and provide modern means of communication between the States. 
As recently as April last year, the Prime Minister in his policy speech stated: 
The Government will re-establish the Commission this year. 
We are still within 12 months of the time at which the Prime Minister said that. That promise will be upheld, at least in this House. Several issues have been mooted to be dealt with by the Interstate Commission. They are mainly in the first stages concerned with railway transport. The Commission should have the role of adjudication to examine, for instance, railway rates so that interstate trade is not disadvantaged when compared with intrastate trade and to ensure that all modes of transport are not isolated in planning or in operation but have a co-ordinated and coplanned relationship. The Inter-State Commission should have the powers of investigation which are absolutely necessary before adjudication can be made. It should have a role of arbitration and be a suitable body to arbitrate and enforce its decisions upon competing parties. It would be the ideal body for the transfer of State railways to Australian Government control, if offered by the many States. In the case of 2 States this has already partly happened. It should be an ideal body also to arbitrate on disputes between the railways of Australia and other carriers. 
It is important to note how matters will be brought to the attention of the Commission. It will be quite open in its operations and accessible to individuals, companies or corporations, State or Australian statutory authorities. Matters can be initiated by the Inter-State Commission or it can operate under either its arbitratory. investigatory or adjudicatory roles at the direction of the Minister. I say that this is important because openness will contribute the same quality that has been injected into the field of subsidies and support schemes to industry under the Industries Assistance Commission. This Bill establishes the principles and, later, government could expand the Commission's role or refine those principles. Expansion could be inevitable and quite proper. As the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  said, section 101 of the Constitution must be read in conjunction with sections 92 and 104 of the Constitution. Section 104 reads: 
Nothing in this Constitution shall render unlawful any rate for the carriage of goods upon a railway, the property of a State, if the rate is deemed by the Inter-State Commission to be necessary for the development of the territory of the State, and if the rate applies equally to goods within the State and to goods passing into the State from other States. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Wentworth overlooked section 104 of the Constitution when he objected to clause 1 1 of this Bill and argued that what appeared to be reasonable and just may not be so. I am sure that section 104 utterly dismisses his argument. In fact, his oversight is deplorable. On section 104 rests clause 10 of the Bill. 
Further, if the Corporation's power is wide enough to enable the Commonwealth to make price-fixing laws applicable to the prices of goods and services sold or supplied by foreign companies and Australian trading and financial companies, as it may be, the Commission could also act as a price-fixing authority, again, of courseand I stress this- in connection with the sale of goods or the supply of services interstate, subject to section 92 of the Constitution. I underline the relationship between the rest of the Constitution and the other bodies which have been set up by the Australian Government because it is on these considerations that part III of the Bill operates. 
The honourable member for Wentworth decried the status that we have ascribed to the Commission in this Bill. It is important that if it is to operate successfully it have operations similar to the Grants Commission and have the status of the Arbitration Commission. This is what the Government set out to do. The absence of the Inter-State Commission has led to the establishment of many other bodies, such as the Tariff Board, the Industries Assistance Commission, the Grants Commission, the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission which have taken responsibility for areas that might well have been within the purview of the Inter-State Commission. It is because of the neglect by previous governments in not establishing such a Commission that these various bodies have needed to be established. The establishment of the Inter-State Commission by this Bill must be seen in the light of those bodies. 
Australia is no longer a conglomeration of outpost empires, of colonies. Seventy-five years after our forefathers wrote the Constitution we have emerged from the horse and buggy days into a modern era. This Bill will enable the Constitution to have some flexibility in its interstate operations and relationships, to transform an outdated federalism into a working, modern, uptodate nation- a working federalism. 
-The Homes Savings Grant Bill 1975 is designed to phase out the homes savings grant scheme after the introduction of the scheme for the deductibility of mortgage interest payments. It provides for the transition period with adequate overlap safeguards so that those who do qualify under the homes savings grant scheme can enjoy the best of both schemes. It is true that both schemes are designed to give financial assistance to home buyers. I guess, like motherhood, home ownership is unquestioned, although I think it is time that all governments do question the desirability of home ownership. Already this Government, like the previous Government, does accept it as unquestionable. I say it should be questioned because it is not the only form of providing adequate long term shelter for individuals and families. But this Government, like the previous Government, does accept the principle and the objective of home ownership as desirable. Where the 2 parties differ is in the method used in the schemes designed to help ordinary people achieve home ownership. 
The social justification for subsidising home buyers is presumably that home ownership confers various external social benefits apart from the personal benefits received by the owner. For example, it may make for a more stable, contented, hard-working, clean and tidy populace, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  Since over 70 per cent of Australian families own or at least are paying off their own home and nearly all Australians aspire to this state, the political advantages of both the Government and the Opposition in helping them out are evident. 
There are certain initial problems faced in purchasing a house although once these are overcome the buyer usually goes on to make a considerable gain from the investment, despite the term 'little capitalist' jogged into the debate by the honourable member for Deakin. Since many young people experience great initial difficulty in obtaining finance to buy a home, it is necessary to ask why this should be so before deciding on the appropriate form of help. In some periods the main problem making finance difficult to obtain is the Government's monetary policy, as with the credit squeezes- not a recent invention- which Australia experienced in 1961, 1971 and last year. The appropriate method to be used to avoid such a situation is not to give subsidies to home buyers but to plan for a more regular flow of credit. In past years governments' stop-go economic policies have brought about excessive fluctuations in the money supply, the brunt of which has usually been borne by the housing industry. 
For the first time under the present Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  the Australian Government has tackled this problem by using the vehicle of the recently established Australian Housing Corporation. A major problem which still remains lies in the effect of inflation. This has been mentioned by several speakers in this debate. Inflation in land and building costs, which was even more rapid in 1973-74 than that in the general price level, and which drives up the cost of the deposit required, erodes the value of the savings which are built up over a number of years for the deposit. Hence, as the purchase price and interest costs go up rapidly, the deposit required and the initial repayments become more burdensome. However, after the initial purchase, inflation usually begins to work in the buyer's favour. The buyer acquires an asset, whether it be house or land, the value of which often increases faster than the general price level while he repays the loan of a fixed money value from inflated income in later years. This situation will apply as long as a government allows the working people to increase their wages or their incomes so that they do not fall behind the increase in the cost of living. I remind the Opposition that its objective is to keep the ordinary home owner, the wage earner, in a position where he is less able to meet any inflation whether it be 2 per cent or 3 per cent or at the present level. 
The imputed income or return from investment which the owner-occupier gets in the form of a saving on rent is not taxable. Then, the purchaser is also permitted a tax deduction for local government rates paid up to a maximum of $300. These considerations seem to indicate that the methods of assistance which best get to the source of the home buyer's problems would be the ones for redistributing the cost of purchasing a home away from the earlier years towards the later years of the loan period. But it should also be remembered that if, under the various schemes to assist home buyers, total demand for houses is pushed beyond the available supply, some method of rationing will be necessary or inflation in house prices could accelerate. A simple example of cost-push inflation is too much money chasing too few goods. The principal benefit of the homes savings grant would appear to be- according to honourable members opposite- in assisting home buyers to bridge the deposit gap required to buy a home. As I have mentioned, this becomes more difficult when savings are eroded in real terms by inflation while building and land costs rise at least as fast as incomes. 
However, in practice, homes savings grants have usually been approved too late to help bridge this deposit gap. Nevertheless, the purchase of a first home always involves additional initial expenses such as fencing, furniture, etc. as the honourable member for Deakin reminded us. A grant could be used if received after the purchase at a propitious time perhaps to pay legal fees, to provide extra amenities for the house, to meet bank charges and so on. I remind the House that what we are talking about when we use the term 'home' is a combination of a house, the home environment created by the people in it and the articles of furniture which go to make living accommodation. In this Bill we are really talking about a house. It is a euphemism to talk about a home. So what we are really talking about is assisting house buyers whom we term home buyers. Members of the Liberal Party opposite claim that their meagre $750 helped to close the credit gap. It failed miserably for several reasons to do so. 
It failed to help those who needed it most. It helped only married couples in the first year when they usually do not have children. It contained no compensation against inflation and it left out a large group of people who also needed help. If the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  who interjected still has any doubts I will expand on that matter later. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  argues for an increase in the limit. The honourable member for Deakin argues for an increase in the grant. But this is unnecessary. Those eligible are already getting the best out of both schemes in this transition period. The best solution is to phase out the former scheme and to introduce the deductibility of mortgage interest scheme. From the home purchaser's point of view the DMI scheme is preferable to the homes savings grant scheme as it operated in the past because the value of the DMI scheme in terms of tax dollars saved is considerably higher than the homes savings grant scheme. The benefit received by a typical individual under the DMI scheme could be several thousand dollars over the full period of his mortgage. For example, there could be an average tax saving over 20 years of $250 a year. By comparison, to the same person the maximum homes savings grant given is a miserable $750. 
Secondly, the DMI scheme is particularly beneficial in an inflationary situation when interest rates are high. Thirdly, although the benefits of mortgage interest deductions are spread throughout the repayment period, they are concentrated most in the first few years. This is when the outstanding capital debt is greatest so that the interest component of repayments is highest. The former scheme gave no help to unmarried people or to single parents. If you were a single parent, if you were deserted or widowed- I ask honourable members to remember that no widows or widowers without children were assisted- it is just as important to maintain your house and to keep it as it is to get one in the first place. Persons over 35 years of age were excluded from purchasing a house for the first time with assistance. Large families who had difficulty in finding suitable accommodation under $22,500 were excluded. Another group of people who were omitted were migrants who had purchased their home within 3 years of arrival. The scheme gave a greater amount of money to those who had the capacity or the will to save and so, in a sense, exacerbated inequality. 
Finally some poorer people would have been unable to save as much as $2,250 to obtain the maximum benefit. The Coombs report, entitled 'Review of the Continuing Expenditure Policies of the Previous Government ' at page 9 1 states:  'The grant is a gift, paid without regard to the needs of the recipient 'and 'The grant ... is one which is easily availed of by those with access to funds, whether from relatives, friends or by way of institutional borrowings, which can be invested in the prescribed manner for the relatively short period required under the scheme in order to qualify for the grant. By contrast, families in real need of assistance with housing may not be able to obtain the benefit of the grant because of their inability to accumulate savings. Recipients of the grant are not obliged to spend it on or in connection with the acquisition of a home.' 
It seems ridiculous to give taxpayers money for homes savings when it need not be spent on the home. Further on the report stated:  '. . . it is also open to question whether the subsidy accrues in toto to eligible home purchasers or whether some part of it accrues to suppliers of the product by way of increased profits. Certainly it has been claimed that the scheme has encouraged builders to increase the prices of houses.' 
I seems likely that, in any situation of excess demand for a relatively fixed supply of housing or land, any extra money for buyers would simply cause prices to be further inflated. Other criticisms of the scheme pertain to its administration. Because an application for assistance under the scheme is submitted only when a contract is signed for either purchase or construction, processing time for the application prevents the funds actually being used to bridge the deposit gap. I remind the House that this was the original purpose of the Liberal Party scheme. The timing of the payment of the grant therefore becomes important for the recipient. If an application can be processed without any inquiries having to be made, the funds generally can be made available within two to three weeks. If, however, inquiries have to be made- I remind the House that 70 per cent of all applications are such that inquiries have to be made- it may take several months before the grant is made available. 
Extreme limitations placed on the forms of savings of the home buyer are further restrictions on people who are eligible to obtain assistance under the homes savings grant scheme. I shall give a few examples. Only savings held in specified forms such as savings bank accounts and with building societies can qualify. Savings held in Austalian Government bonds, superannuation schemes and employers' savings schemes do not qualify. Savings held by an ineligible spouse, jointly with another person, or as child endowment in a child's account cannot be taken into account either. Savings held in another block of land that could not be sold within 6 months of the date of home acquisition also cannot be taken into account. To qualify for a grant a person is required to hold acceptable savings for at least 3 years immediately before the date of home acquisition. Many decisions can be made in 3 years, many decisions affecting a person's life. There could be a decision to marry and to obtain a home for a family. On average 2 children can be born in 3 years. If people had not started they were out of the race. A pro rata amount is not payable where a person narrowly fails to meet all of the conditions including saving for 3 years, the value amount of $22,500 on a home and the age limit of 36 years. 
Rather than being assisted to bridge the deposit gap, home owners would seem to face a barrage of exclusions designed to bring about the ineligibility of the needy. 
We hear arguments against the deductibility of mortgage interest scheme. Let us take the matter of cost. It is going to mean increased government expenditure. The cost to taxpayers of the DMI scheme is considerably greater than it is for the HSG scheme. The cost of the DMI scheme for a full year is estimated at $130m compared with a mere $20m paid out under the HSG scheme. There seems to be a contradiction in the argument of the Opposition when it asks for a cut in government expenditure to curb inflation and then turns around and says that we should be doing more to assist people in home ownership. 
Can the Opposition rationalise its argument and so perhaps see that what we are doing is spending in socially desirable terms an extra $1 10m so that people can become home owners. If anyone has any distinction to make between the objective of the Opposition and of the Government- I kindly said that both our aims are home ownership- then surely we should be complimented more than the Opposition. 
It is argued that the DMI scheme benefits only those who have already overcome the hurdle of saving the deposit and have bought a home. It is impossible to talk about this Bill without realising that it is introduced against the background of the establishment of an Australian Housing Commission that will assist those just above the lower income group- the middle income group- to bridge the deposit gap. It is not a perfect scheme. We do not claim it to be but we claim it to be a far better scheme. Let me give an axample perhaps of where it could be improved. Although the benefit is limited to people with incomes above $14,000 a year, the scheme has a regressive impact in the lower ranges of the income scale; that is, the benefit received by lower income earners is less than it is for higher income earners. This can be seen from 2 tables which I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 
I am very disappointed in the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  who has lost his flair for objectivity on matters of electoral systems and their fairness. I am disappointed because 9 years ago he strove dearly and hard to educate me in the principles of electoral systems when I was at Melbourne University. Now he has seen fit to throw away his books and his beliefs. For him facts are no longer what they are but as he sees them. He said that redistribution would 'nudge the electoral fortunes Labor's way'. Then the honourable member set about attempting to convince us that an assessment of electoral fortune depended on detailed analysis. We find that what he meant by 'fair' was really what was favourable to the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. There was no supportive argument because his observations- selective and manipulative as they are- clash with the basic democratic principles. When that occurs it is just like what happens when an indestructible force meets an immovable object. There can be no reconciliation of his argument with the facts. 
I remind the House that we have to observe 2 basic principles when we are working through a parliamentary system that is coupled with an electoral voting system that reflects the wishes of the people, before we can claim to be a democracy. Those 2 basic "principles should not bear repetition; but, from the nature of the debate, they certainly do. They are the principle of universal suffrage and, most importantly in redistribution matters, the principle of one vote one value. Surely the people want the principle of one vote one value because it was an issue at the double dissolution and they voted overwhelmingly for the return of the Government, which supported that principle. In a Joint Sitting the Parliament as a whole supported the tenet of one vote one value. It is the law. There are many ways in which to bring that about. I believe that the Distribution Commissioners have done that openly, honestly and carefully within their terms of reference. I do not agree with every part of their report; I do not agree with their report in its entirety. Perhaps some changes should be made in the electorate of Henty and one or two in my neighbouring electorate of Casey. But overall I support the report. I support it because it is objective and impartial and unquestionably fair and reasonable. Prior to the amendments, the legislation allowed for a 20 per cent variation above or below the quota. 
Seven years has elapsed since the last redistribution. I remind honourable members that one census has been taken since then. One is taken every 5 years. Yet the Opposition argues that this is not the time to have a redistribution and that we should wait until after the next census. 
This redistribution provides for the changes that have occurred since the 1971 census. An honourable member interjected that that is the law. This redistribution fulfils the law. Honourable members opposite are merely delaying these proposals because they hope against all odds that they will win the next election and then be in a position to bring in a gerrymander. Let us look at some of the facts. On 13 December 1974 the enrolment in the electorate of Diamond Valley was 86 053 and in the electorate of Wimmera it was 49 150. There was a disparity of almost two to one. In my own electorate of La Trobe there was an enrolment of 81 884, compared with the enrolment of 49 657 in the electorate of 
Mallee. My point is this: I have to go and tell my electors they have to muster 5 votes to equal the force of argument of only 3 voters in the electorate of Mallee. 
Of course it is disgraceful. I cannot support such a situation. My people have sent me here to rectify that malapportionment. I can only support the proposal, having been requested to restore the democratic principle and basic tenet of one vote one value. The present system works against the city dwellers. I remind the House that 75 per cent of Australians live in capital cities or the larger urban areas. The present system works in favour of the rural dwellers. The present sytem is against the citybased parties. That goes for the Liberal Party as well as the Labour Party. The present system works in favour of the rural based party- the National Country Party. I cannot come to this Parliament and support anything else but that which gives a proper system of one vote one value to the 75 per cent of Victorians who live in the urban electorates of Melbourne. 
One should ask: Why do the National Country Party and the Liberal Party oppose the recommendations? The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  told us yesterday that this matter should be argued in general terms. He said that to say that the impact on marginal seats determines whether there is a bias is debatable but he takes a subjective viewpoint. I prefer to accept the objectivity of the Distribution Commissioners. He argued that the weighting is to provide for smaller electorates so that country voters may be better serviced. That argument has been supported by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  I argue that we must not interfere with the basic fundamental principle of one vote one value. The answers to the problems of the rural voter are more complex. It is a more complex solution than just an interference with the basic right. We must consider it against the background of a narrowed differential of plus or minus 10 per cent. The member for a country electorate needs better services. He needs better equipment. He needs more staff. He needs better organisation in his own group. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has already improved beyond anything provided by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government the services provided for members for country electorates. If the members for country electorates believe that there should be a better voice and that there should be a better argument to convince the city people of the disadvantages to primary producers and others of living in the rural areas of this country, then they should do it openly. That should be argued strongly in such areas as the Industries Assistance Commission. That is the area in which the problems of country people should be exposed and a solution should be found. That should not be left to a minority, blinkered party such as the National Country Party. Honourable members opposite argue that we are not ready for a redistribution. I again lay that misrepresentation by saying that it is 7 years since the last redistribution took place and that a census has taken place since then. It is time to rectify the situation. 
Let us look at the real reasons why honourable members opposite are opposing the proposals. In a nutshell, the Liberal Party is being stood over by the National Country Party. I really cannot understand why. The Liberal Party will not win office while it is a part of the coalition because the people of Australia realise what would happen if the coalition were returned to office. First of all, unjustifiable and secret subsidies to the rural industries would be continued at the expense of the metropolitan electorates. There would be another example of dilly-dallying over revaluation, which would be to the benefit of the speculators. Of course, the Liberal Party could not win on its own because if it were to go to the people it would have to demonstrate how far it is out of step with the general situation. It proposes to cut welfare and education expenditure; it would encourage Australia to be involved in another war in South-East Asia; and it would destroy national government by referring national responsibilities to the States. There can be no long term political advantage to the Liberal Party in supporting the opposition in these proposals. Honourable members opposite are attempting to hold together a coalition which is splitting in Western Australia and Queensland and which is overstrained in the national sphere. In case there are any doubts about that, let me give 2 examples of the strains in Victoria concerning the Federal sphere. The submission from the Liberal Party in Victoria to the Commissioners was in the form of a letter dated 14 November 1974. It appears at page 54 of the report. It reads in part: 
Finally, given the criteria in the Act, we have to agree with the Labor submission of a reduction of one seat from the rural area and an increase in one in the south eastern area. 
That letter was signed by the former Secretary of the Liberal Party in Victoria,  Mr Leo  Hawkins. It should be noted that he is no longer the Secretary. 
That is true. He got the sack because he dared to stand for the principles of the Liberal Party and not buckle under to the minor partner in the coalition, the National Country Party. Last year the coalition split and fought over the question of whether the Liberal Party should oppose the National Country Party in rural seats. The only short term advantage that I can see in the Liberal Party opposing this redistribution is that it hopes to extend the honeymoon of its new Leader. 
Having heard the honourable member for Wimmera- who, I might add, apart from the fact that he will lose his seat, is a resident of my former home town of Horsham and is a member of the Party of which my father was a representative in the State House- I can understand well and truly why the National Country Party is opposed to this redistribution. It is its last chance of survival until the shaky national expansion at the expense of the Liberal Party is obtained. Let us consider one of the arguments advanced by the honourable member for Wimmera to support his case. Because one electorate- I think it is the electorate of Grayndler- is 4 per cent of the size of the electorate of Mallee, he wants in Mallee 25 times the power of voting in a metropolitan electorate. It is one thing to represent cows, haystacks or lamp posts, but we came here to represent people. 
Let us look at the Opposition's argument that the present system returns members according to a reflection of the wishes of the people. A total of 9.44 per cent of the votes cast returned 16 per cent of the members- those in National Country Party held seats. Although bad I do not think that that gives an accurate picture of the situation. I think it is better to look at the weight of voters through their representatives. Let us look at the average enrolment in the seats won by the various parties. The Australian Labor Party won 66 seats with an average voting enrolment of 63 458. The Liberal Party was worse off; not only did it win no more than 40 seats, but its average enrolment was higher than ours- 64 045, whereas the Country Party coasted in with 21 seats, with average enrolments of only 54 708. This proposed redistribution would not favour the Labor Party any more than any other Party in the House. On those figures, it would favour the Liberal Party most. This shows the inconsistency of argument of the main Opposition partner in the coalition. 
I should like to applaud the change of name of the new seat of Doncaster-Templestowe to Menzies. But I notice that the Liberal Party, the Party of the former longest serving Australian 
Prime Minister, is voting against that too. The naming of seats has become a form of memorial. There are few exceptions to this, although one that readily comes to mind is the seat of Casey. We should, I believe, remember to express our recognition of contributions made in the lifetime of our former parliamentary leaders wherever possible. The Minister has done this by naming a Western Australian seat, the seat of Tangney. The seat of Forde has been suggested, as well as the seat of Menzies. We may not agree- in fact, we hardly agree- with anything that was stood for by the former member for Kooyong,  Sir Robert  Menzies. We opposed him on his commitment to Vietnam and on his basic philosophies. But it is important that we are big enough, we have enough guts, to acknowledge that he made a contribution and to recognise that in his own lifetime. 
I have set out a case that demonstrates that this Bill does not attempt to establish a gerrymander; it attempts to destroy a monument to malapportionment. The Government agrees with the noted psephologist, Malcolm Mackerras, who said: 
In overall political terms, the 1975 redistribution is the fairest set of proposed boundaries ever to be presented to the Australian Parliament in my lifetime. 
He went on to say: 
The Commissioners have bent over backwards to avoid any suggestion of gerrymander. 
It will be a tragedy and a travesty of democracy if the Opposition in the Senate uses its brutal numbers to defeat these Bills. I end on another quotation from  Mr Mackerras: 
My impression is that the Commissioners have set out to draw boundaries so patently fair that rejection by the Senate would reflect discredit on the Senate, not the Commissioners. 
It would reflect discredit on the Opposition members in this House who would like to deliver a fatal body blow to one of the basic principles of democratic parliamentary representation: one vote one value. 
Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware of a report that the Australian Government is not keen to provide funds for private development in the city of Knox, one of the Victorian Government's newly declared preferred development areas? Will the Minister indicate to the House the Government's policy of co-operation with the Victorian Government to overcome delays in bringing cheaper residential land on to the market in the city of Knox and in other preferred development areas? 
Is the Minister for Transport aware of the recent introduction of new rail timetables in Victoria? Is he aware of mounting dissatisfaction amongst commuters over constant breakdowns in the new time-tables, especially on lines serving Melbourne's outer eastern suburbs? Can he say what the Australian Government is doing under the urban transport upgrading program to help the Victorian railways over its troubles? 
-The Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Bill, as correctly pointed out, sets out to amend the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974. It does so in 2 significant respects. Firstly, it sets out to adjust the terms of the loans under the financial agreements with the States. The House will recall that under sections 3, 4 and 9 in the Schedule, the Act provided $258,398,000 in loans. This included $124,750,000 for urban expansion and redevelopment; $13,500,000 for area improvement, being urban and regional improvement and rehabilitation; $110m for sewerage; $4,400,000 for water supply and a further $5,748,000 for restoration, preservation and improvement of landscapes and buildings of special significance. 
I particularly wish to refer to growth centres as that is the major aspect of the umbrella legislation. Our program for growth centres aims to encourage the rapid development of a small number of regional growth centres as desirable alternatives to existing cities. This involves the operation of a development corporation with the following functions: To acquire and develop land; to provide service headworks; and to carry out both strategic and detailed planning for green field urban developments. Development corporations are also responsible for attracting population and industry to the centres that they manage. The role of a development corporation involves much more construction work than land commissions. A development corporation should also generate demand by making the particular growth centre an attractive alternative to other urban areas. As the House knows, our major growth centre program is Albury-Wodonga. As correctly pointed out by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  it will take time for the centres to develop and it will be difficult for the corporations to estimate accurately the rents, charges and other income that they wish to generate. It will be difficult for such corporations to set such rents and charges at a level which will give them income to service the loan from the Australian Government. 
The Australian Government, through the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  built into the 1974 Act a form of loss guarantee which would cover this situation. But during the discussions on the terms and conditions of finance for our programs of development of the urban fringe and in growth centres, the States sought assurance from the Government that terms and conditions of finance could be reviewed after an initial period. We agreed to this. The long term nature of those programs is such that flexibility will be required in the initial stages. To achieve this flexibility and to satisfy the States, we included in clause 5 (3) of the Bill a provision to review the operation of these agreements. But the States believe and, I understand, even received legal advice- or that was the information given by the honourable member for Sturt- that the intent of section 5, subsection (3), of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act was overruled by section 7 of that Act. Section 7 of the Act provides: 
1) Subject to this Act, where financial assistance under this Act is provided to a State by way of loan, the State shall- . (a) repay the loan in such a manner, and within such period, not exceeding- 
in the case of a loan in respect of expenditure in accordance with a program relating to the matter specified in item 3 in the Schedule- 40 years after the date on which the loan was made; or 
in any other case-30 years after the date on which the loan was made, 
I think a few comments about this provision are in order. Although we do not agree that these sections are inconsistent, or contradictory- the legal draftsmen certainly did not think so- we have agreed to resolve the situation by replacing paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Act with these words: 
repay the loan in such manner, and within such period, as are specified in the agreement in accordance with which the financial assistance is provided. 
That brings the provision into line with the new agreement under the umbrella Act. 
I think a few comments about the co-operative approach in which this amendment was agreed upon also are in order. It is a further example of the underlying co-operative effort between the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and his State counterparts in the various State governments. The original Act for the first time set the seal on the concept and function of cooperative federalism in Australia. It allows the Australian and State governments to get together in co-operative measures to improve the quality of life in Australia. For far too long laissez faire or ad hoc attitudes have dominated the thinking of Australian governments in the area of urban and regional development. These defects have distorted the distribution of the good things of life which should be available to all of our people. The great merit of the Act, which this Bill seeks to amend, is that for the first time the resources of Australia were marshalled to provide national strategies and national programs. Indeed, it was the first attempt by an Australian government to recognise the national character of the problems of the cities. But, moreover, in particular it allowed the Australian Government to join State and local authorities in planning and implementing programs with a broad national perspective. 
In other areas, the States have been a little tardy in signing agreements with the Australian Government to set up the machinery to put these programs into operation. For instance, the Aus.tralian Government proposed that each State establish a land commission or some other body with powers to acquire and develop land. These bodies would operate within the existing administrative framework of the different States. Their activities would be mainly the acquisition and release of large areas of land which would be ready to be put to urban use. The Victorian Government as late as May last year agreed to establish an urban land council. It was expected that $16m would be made available to Victoria this financial year. I understand that $3. 5m of that amount would be used to purchase open space on the Mornington Peninsula in order to preserve an area which is of conservational and recreational significance to the whole of Melbourne. The balance of the funds would be sufficient to purchase some 850 hectares of land for urban residential development in Melbourne in preferred growth areas. 
Exactly 12 months have passed since that initial agreement was reached between the Minister and the more progressive elements of the Victorian Government. I believe the delays have been caused by internal arguments in the Victorian Cabinet between the more conservative elements, which we see repeated in the Opposition here, and the more progressive elements which join the Minister and the Government in wishing to develop a quality of life at a price in which the average earner can participate and which will enable him to purchase for himself. The latest announcement is that the Victorian Government has again agreed and is prepared to sign the agreement. I hope that comes about before the end of the financial year. It is a very good thing to hear this news because it means that thousands of land seekers wishing to purchase their homes will be able to obtain land at a far cheaper cost to themselves and at a saving of thousands of dollars in each case. 
But final acceptance which, as I said earlier, is essential before the end of this month is symptomatic of the conservative States in many aspects. Co-operative federalism apparently depends on a one way flow of funds from the national Government to the State governments. Examples which are quick to come to mind are sewerage, land commissions, area improvement programs and so on. In this case it is not hard to understand why the State governments have readily agreed, not only because of the persuasiveness and co-operative nature of the Minister but also because of the flow of funds to the various State governments. Another example is Medibank. After a political barrage and dispute lating several years and combined with several non-Government organisations- admittedly parties to the scheme- the State governments have accepted Medibank. They have accepted the medical side because it is law and the hospital side because it means an increased flow of funds. If there is no money involved or if it means a loss of State generated revenue in favour of national benefit the spirit of cooperation disappears. I think this is nowhere more prominent than in the issue of conservation and preservation of the environment. 
A case in point is Fraser Island. Any mineral or environment policies in Australia are essentially based upon co-operation between a national government with powers over export licences and State governments which have the power to issue mining licences. The State governments have as their sole prerogative and responsibility land use in Australia. In the case of Fraser Island the mining leases or licences were issed by the Queensland Government. Of course upon this was built the expectation that 
Dillingham-Murphyores Minerals, the company involved, would be able to go ahead. The Australian Government and the Minister for Minerals and Energy, who is responsible for issuing the export licence, are forced to fulfil that expectation and obligation. I give this example because it shows that our environment policy is sound and consistent but it falls down if we cannot gain State co-operation. 
In all their calls for a cut in government spending the conservative States and the Opposition avoid declaring where their cuts would be made. Why does the Opposition not state that it would like to see a cut in government expenditure in the area of urban and regional development? I think the answer is fairly clear. First of all, the Opposition is frightened. It knows that if it is to win government, if it is to take over the benches from the current Government, it will need to secure votes in the outer suburbs of Sudney and Melbourne. So they are afraid to declare cuts in government expenditure which would increase the quality of life. They are afraid to announce cuts of a direct flow of funds to their State counterpartsthe conservative State governments. More kindly- I think the shadow Minister at the table, the honourable member for Stun falls into this category- I believe that some members of the Opposition recognise that the quality of life does not depend upon the income of the individual. He cannot buy his way out of bad planning, out of a smog-filled environment or out of a traffic jammed city. The quality of life depends more upon where one lives. The answer must be a community solution- a social or a national approach. 
Co-operative federalism, when successful, is carried out against a barrage of criticism that each government $1 increases the Budget deficit. Each claim for $1 is shadowed by a criticism of increased government expenditure. The States and the Opposition cannot have it both ways. They must acknowledge that State government expenditure must have the same impact as national government expenditure, whether their income is derived from their own sources or from the Australian Government under section 96 of the Constitution or whether the spending program is their own initiative or part of a national program- part of the Australian Government's nationally accepted responsibility. Co-operative federalism implies an end to ad hoc or piecemeal decision-making and a start to national planning for the environment, for the cities, for the country and for our economy. One aspect of the national program forms the second feature of this Bill that seeks to amend the Act. The Australian Government policy statement 'A National Approach to Water Resources Management' which the Minister for Environment  (Dr Cass)  tabled in Parliament in October sets out a broad framework and a series of objectives for a balanced approach to water resources management. One of the stated objectives is 'to encourage the zoning of flood prone land, with a view to its orderly management. Such zoning and management must of course be carried out in the context of the regional development framework and take full account of the overall social, economic and environmental requirements of particular districts and the nation as a whole '. 
This Bill will provide $450,000 for flood mitigation works on the Breakfast-Enogerra Creek in Brisbane which urgently requires attention before it can be incorporated in the national water resources program. The urgency is obvious. The 1974 flooding cost 1 1 lives and probably was the most serious of the four or five floodings since 1950. The honourable member for Sturt may decry the additional funds provided in this Bill, but action to lessen the tragedy of floods must be taken on all fronts, of which flood mitigation is just one. In conclusion, I compliment the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and the Government on continuing their national responsibility in the areas of urban and regional development and water conservation. 
asked the Minister for Tourism and Recreation the following question, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
-I move: 
That the honourable member for Scullin,  Dr Jenkins,  be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 

 -Mr Speaker, we on this side of the House believe that our candidate, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  is a most admirable and honourable member to fill the office of the  Chairman  of Committees. Unlike the previous  Chairman  of Committees, he is not a lawyer, although he does come to the Parliament with a duo of academic successes, in the fields of medicine and science. I say this because while it is not important to hold legal qualifications to be a  Chairman  of Committees, the qualifications of the honourable member for Scullin do indicate the self-discipline and objectivity possessed by him, characteristics displayed so well by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  during his tenure of office as  Chairman  of Committees. Primarily it is parliamentary experience rather than legal experience or academic qualifications that is the prerequisite for the holder of the office of  Chairman  of Committees or of  Speaker-  and one of the tasks of the 

 Chairman of Committees is to deputise for you,  Mr Speaker.  I believe that the honourable member for Scullin possesses the necessary requirements- an intimate understanding of parliamentary life, of the problems of members individually and collectively, and of the atmosphere of this House. 
The honourable member for Scullin has had a long and distinguished apprenticeship inside and outside Parliament in the way of preparation for holding this position. He has served 14 years in Australian parliaments, 8 years as the member for Reservoir in the lower House of the Victorian Parliament, and the last 6 years, since 1969, as the honourable member for Scullin in this House, having been re-elected in 1972 and 1974. I believe that in all that time he has served his electorate with dedication, sincerity and distinction. Moreover, he is a person well versed in the committee system of Parliament. He was a member of the Printing Committee of the Victorian Parliament and was  Deputy Chairman  of the Statute Law Revision Committee in that State. He was appointed  Deputy Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation on his election to this Parliament. I have served on the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, under his chairmanship, for more than 2 years, as have members on the other side of the House. He has been  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System since that Committee was established 1 1 months ago. He is also a member for the Privileges Committee of this House. I have mentioned all of those matters because it is in that extraordinary record of Committee service and as one of our former  Deputy  Chairmen of Committees that we have observed the qualities that make him an ideal candidate- integrity, judgment, a sense of humour, common sense and firmness tempered with understanding. 
The honourable member for Scullin is a man of integrity, a virtue he demonstrated when he stood down as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees this year over a matter that has forced all honourable members on both sides of this House to re-examine their conceptions and understanding of the chairmanship of this House. The persons who preside over the proceedings of this House are the protectors of the rights of the Parliament- not of the Executive or a political party- while acknowledging that the Government must control the business of the House. 
In my maiden speech in this House a few years ago I said that this Parliament was in danger of being seen by the public as an anachronistic gas chamber where politicians make wordy speeches, throw around inane interjections and manipulate parish pumps. That is a constant danger. Its avoidance depends upon the members themselves and the chairmanship of this House. Honourable members on this side of the House believe that their candidate- the honourable member for Scullin- possesses the qualities required to complement your own contribution,  Mr Speaker,  towards constantly raising the standards of this place in the eyes of the public, particularly at a time when the number of supporters of the Government and the Opposition is fairly close and the potential atmosphere is highly charged. We commend his candidature to the House. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
Has the attention of the AttorneyGeneral been drawn to the publication of a report dealing with Queensland Mines Ltd? Does this report point up blatant malpractices contrary to the public interest? Does the report question the claims of the stock exchanges that they are capable of regulating the dishonest and corrupt activities of their member companies? Will the Attorney-General inform the House whether the proposed corporations and securities industry legislation, if allowed to pass by the Opposition, will protect the public from such activities? 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
-The National Health (Pharmaceutical Benefits Charges) Bill seeks to increase the patient contribution for each prescription provided under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Currently that contribution is $1 for the general public and 50c for those holding a subsidised health benefits entitlement. Pensioners holding a medical entitlement card do not pay a contribution. These rates will be raised, when this Bill is passed, from $1 to $1.50 and from 50c to 75c respectively. They will operate from I September. The last increase was made by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government on 1 November 1971, when the patient contribution rose from 50c to $1. If one wished to be rather intrigued by percentage terms one could say that the Opposition doubled the patient contribution whereas this Government has merely made a 50 per cent increase. 
I rise to point out to the public that one thing which has caused me, as a pharmacist, and many of my colleagues much concern is the idea that the public understands this patient contribution to be a bonus to the pharmacist who dispenses a prescription. This does not increase his profit or his professional fee. The increase merely alters the proportions paid by the public and the Government. It does not alter the total price of the prescription. Incidentally, the cost of a prescription is eligible to earn a tax rebate for the patient which, when the Budget is passed as undoubtedly it will be, will be equivalent to 40c in the $ 1 . So the effective cost to the patient is really 90c. The rebate gives the benefit equally to the low, medium and high income earners, whereas under the previous Government the patient contribution increase was felt most by the low income earners and least by the high income earners. 
In contrast to this decision the reason for the increase in 1971 was given as a deterrent introduced because of the sharp increase in the costs of the scheme. The Government hoped to bring down the utilisation of drugs. The increase was to act as a deterrent to the patient relying heavily on drugs and was to offset the sharp increase in the cost of the scheme. Of course those costs have continued. This year we have set out to cut government expenditure or, to put it correctly, to cut the rate of growth of government expenditure, especially after the decision to pay pharmacists an increase in the dispensing fee for prescriptions dispensed over the last 2 financial years. 
I am not greatly persuaded by the assertion of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  that we have totally abandoned our party platform. He described our policy as contradictory. I say it is flexible. The result is that this Government is charged with keeping costs as low as possible and working towards reducing the patient contribution as much as possible in the light of current conditions and in particular the financial stresses and costs of the scheme. The percentage rise in the consumer price index since 1 97 1 is far in excess of the percentage increase in the patient contribution. Do members of the Opposition argue that they would not have cut government costs by increasing the patient contribution far more than 50c? If we were to apply the percentage sum or equation that I mentioned earlier the increase would have been more than $1. It would have been a $2 increase. The Opposition has constantly argued for a cut in government expenditure. In the light of the Government's desire to cut down the rate of growth of government expenditure I believe that the decision by the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and the Cabinet is the minimum increase that could be granted and is thoroughly consistent with our Party 's policy and platform. 
There are a few pluses and minuses in the latest increase. Naturally I will give the good news first- the pluses. Experience shows that doctors will prescribe more under a scheme whereby patients obtain drugs at free or nominal cost than if the full cost or a substantial part of the cost has to be met by the patient. Why is it that regardless of whether a Liberal or Labor government is in power, whether a Medibank scheme is in operation or whether a pharmaceutical benefit scheme is in operation, if the patient has to pay there is a drop in the call upon prescriptions? I think this is of concern to Parliament. Australia is known as the greatest drug taking, pill popping nation in the world. We are a drug oriented society. Patients have an attitude of being unhappy if they do not leave the doctor's surgery with a prescription clasped in their hands. They feel unsatisfied unless they come out with a certificate of ill health in the form of some medication to eradicate their illness. 
Perhaps there should be greater effort by doctors to educate patients not to take unnecessary medicines. This is a natural question one can ask if it is argued that the doctor is over-prescribing because of the cost factor. It is a simplistic argument. It needs examination. I believe that general practitioners do not have the time personally to counsel their patients. We would need a vast increase in the number of general practitioners before the spread would be sufficient for the general practitioner to be able to sit down and fully counsel his patient. This is not the fault of our over-worked general practitioner. I compliment at this point the Minister for his attempt to increase the rate of graduation of general practitioners and their entry into that vital section of family medicine and family health. If the doctor were to take more time to counsel his patient, under the new fee structure there would be a greater cost to the patient. The honourable member for Murray mentioned Medibank. Of course the patient would get a lot more back under Medibank if this were so, especially if the doctor were encouraged and saw the light of direct billing. Certainly it is not the doctor's responsibility per se. It is a matter of education of the public. Once again I compliment the Minister for his overall attack at undermining this prevalent attitude of wishing to support the patients' difficulties, concerns, neuroses and illnesses with reliance upon drugs. Certainly the report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits suggested that. It reads: 
The pressure of work of a general practitioner is great and it is easier and quicker to prescribe than to explain that a drug is not necessary. 
The increase in cost to the patient therefore has a side benefit. It has an attraction that the patient will reduce the demand for prescription drugs and will take the pressure off the doctor. At this point I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  paragraphs 120 and 121 of the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies, and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in a booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants were available through the former Department of Northern Development to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants were available through the former Postmaster-General's Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How was this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of recent statements seeking to present the Portuguese Timor situation to the Australian public in the cold war terms of 'communist' and 'anticommunist'? 
My question is to the Prime Minister, not to the pseudo-Army. 
-The Government recognises that the main economic problems of this country, and this goes for most countries, are unemployment and inflation. Part of the Budget objectives is to combat these problems, but other objectives are equally important. They include an equitable distribution of the nation's wealth, an optimum rate of growth, a healthy balance of payments and a concern with the quality of life or community welfare. The Opposition has concentrated on the Budget as the main economic regulator. Its arguments during the Budget debate show that it has ignored distribution of the nation's wealth and equality of opportunity and has indicated its fanaticism to the profit goal and its support of the 'rip-off' society. The alternative Budget proposals of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  show that he has a concern neither for accuracy nor for welfare. 
However, I must congratulate the members of the Opposition on lifting the standard of the form of debate on the Budget. Their proposals underlying the amendment give the people a clear alternative as to what might have happened if members of the Opposition had been in government. Their proposals would have polarised the people. The proposals show the Opposition's rejection of community responsibility through government and a promotion of the outdated and outworn concept that what is good for big business is good for Australia. 
In promoting himself and his philosophy of elitism, based on Ayn Rand's economic Darwinismshe calls it 'Objectivism'- the Leader of the Opposition clearly has rewritten his Party's economic policy, much to the chagrin of his colleagues for it appears that he did not consult them at any stage. Apart from welfare considerations we must ask which measures- the Government's Budget or the Opposition's proposals- are more likely to stimulate the economy. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has outlined the Government's measures. I remind the House that the Budget is only one of several tools of economic management. This Budget reinforces the advances made under other policies in the wage, monetary, tariff and external areas. The Government has planned a deficit of a size that will stimulate the economy without causing competition for resources- the ultimate consequence of which, as honourable members know, is more inflation. Members of the Opposition- if we can accept their figures- are within about $600m of the size of our deficit, but at a greatly reduced level of government activity. 
The Leader of the Opposition has indicated where he would make definite cuts in government expenditure but is still $5 60m short of his target, which must increase further the government deficit and inflationary pressures. He still has to explain where the Opposition would cut government expenditure to gain that extra $560m. Would members of the Opposition cut government expenditure on education- incidentally, one of the greatest inputs of productionwhich we have increased by 1 4.2 per cent? This is a follow-up to a quadrupling of education expenditure in only 2 years. Would they cut expenditure on health, which is a basic right of every Australian? Would they cut back on Medibank just for spite, to prove it would be a failure, and so jeopardise the health care of all Australians? The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  certainly is a disciple of that point of view. Would members of the Opposition cut back on pensions, which for the first time are in excess of 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings? Would they ask the pensioners, the disadvantaged and the need to bear the brunt of their cut in government expenditure? Would they tell the Returned Services League that repatriation pensions and benefits would be cut? Would they inform State and local governments that there would be a cut in their grants, whereas this Government has increased their funding by 40 per cent? 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  who has just spoken, talks of poverty and the Henderson inquiry yet will not admit that the roots of that poverty he in the 23 years of Liberal neglect of welfare. It appears from the speeches of members of the Opposition that they wish to return to that state. Some cuts are clear. 
The Opposition would dismantle the Prices Justification Tribunal- a body which claimed that in its first year of operation it saved the Australian consumer $253m in unjustifiable profits that would have undermined the real gains won by wage and salary earners. The average employee's real earnings- that is, after tax- rose 7 per cent in 1974-75, or almost 10 per cent when the unrecorded benefits from education, health and social security are added. The Opposition want to save $2.4m by abolishing the PJT. That move would cost the people $253m- more than 100 times the relief in tax that the people would receive 'to spend as they like', so the Leader of the Opposition said. 

 Mr Speaker, I have heard of con.men, but they were cleanskins compared with the honourable member for Wannon. While the wage and salary earners are compelled to argue and to justify their pay increases, no longer will business have to justify its increases; it will set its own. I say 'set' advisedly. It will set them because no longer do normal competitive forces operate in the modern corporate, conglomerate society, despite the work of the Trade Practices Commission.  (Quorum formed)  The Opposition would dismantle also the Australian Legal Aid Office. By saving $8.7m the Opposition would deprive persons in need, particularly disadvantaged persons, of advice and assistance. The Opposition wants to stimulate the economy, to stimulate business on the backs of those in need in society. Honourable members will note that I said $8.7m- not $ 16.7m, as claimed by the Opposition. The total amount includes $7m to legal practitioners in the private sector and $lm in grants to the States to supplement existing legal aid schemes. 
One could go on with many examples, but the people would prefer the Opposition to come clean and to own up to where it would make the cuts in government spending which provides the community welfare. The difference between these 2 Budgets- if I can apply that euphemism to the Opposition's proposals- is not that we are anti-business and the Opposition is pro-business. The Budget is based on a different approach to stimulating business, a different understanding of business and the consequences of those approaches for the general community. That distinguishes the Government from the Opposition. Both sides accept the concept of a mixed economy, but this Government believes that it should be the elected representatives of the people- not big business, the multinationals and Australia's own private bureaucracies- that should run this country. We believe that it should be the community as a whole, not the wealthy few, who should determine what is best for Australia. 
Contrary to the remarks made by the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar),  I believe that many worthwhile efforts have been made by this Government to stimulate business confidence and investment and to dampen inflationary expectations. In money terms government expenditure has been cut by half. In real growth terms it has been cut from 10 per cent to 3 per cent, leaving more resources for the private sector where there is competition for resources. The property income tax surcharge has been abolished. Company tax has been reduced by 5 percentage points in 12 months. Income tax has been cut, placing more spending power in the hands of those with the highest marginal rate of consumption, that is, the people who are forced by needs and circumstances to spend more per dollar of their income than those on higher incomes. These Budget measures are in addition to other measures, including support for the principle of wage indexation which will keep wage increases within the capacity of industry to pay, sales tax cuts on motor vehicles to stimulate the motor vehicle industry and the establishment of the Small Business Bureau. 
To the Opposition, government expenditure is bad; yet in this mixed economy more than twothirds of public expenditure goes into the private sector. Government spending on hospitals, schools and roads, government purchases and welfare payments ends up in the private sector. It is simplistic nonsense to claim that increased government expenditure has caused the problems of the private sector. On the other hand, cutbacks proposed by the Opposition equal to another cut of 3 per cent in government spending would have a dampening effect on the recovery in the private sector. Has the Opposition overlooked the fact that corporate cash flows will increase by $ 1,000m over the amount for last year? I remind the Opposition that Government tax revenue will be down $200m due to the extra 2.5 per cent cut in company tax and due to the low level of taxable income last year on which this year's payments are based. Further, if incomes are higher, as it is predicted they will be, company cash flows will be boosted by another $ 1 ,000m. Provided monetary policy is in concert, and there is no reason or suggestion to expect restrictions, this should be sufficient to finance expansion and recovery consistent with public sector obligations. This is the important thing that the Opposition has forgotten. - 
The Budget program is real and feasible. Already there are signs of an economic recovery at home and overseas. Over the last few months Australia has experienced some growth in personal expenditure, an overall increase in national income and expenditure, a continued run down of non-farm stocks, a stabilising of unemployment and signs- they are only signs but a harbinger of more to come- that inflation is abating. The past measures taken by this Government are definitely working. The Budget measures will reinforce that recovery. At the same time, the Government has continued the community programs demanded by the electorate. The difference between the Government and the Opposition is a recognition of responsibility, the interplay and the division between the public and the private sectors. However, the Opposition has opted for massive- and nowhere has it demonstrated they would be more effectualboosts to big corporate business and restoration of subsidies so as to satisfy their coalition partners and the hidden donors to their election funds.  (Quorum formed.)  Their cuts in Government expenditure and their handouts to their hidden donors of election funds would cripple the community sector. The people are heaving a sigh of relief that the Opposition is not in power but merely revelling in the fantacies and joys of irresponsibility that is the trademark of the Opposition and that it is not in a position to destroy our mixed economy. That comment bears emphasis. I reject the amendment and support the Budget. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b). loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
-In rising to speak on the estimates for the Department of Minerals and Energy I wish to introduce a new area of energy pOliCy which has not yet been touched upon, and that is solar energy. In the next 10 minutes I wish to speak about the need to co-ordinate our energy POliCY and the need for co-operation not only between the private and public sectors in Australia but also between various countries. It is probably not difficult to imagine why we need an extensive solar energy research program. It has been pointed out by many people that in solar energy perhaps lies the answer to an alternative and limitless source of energy and one which has the attraction and the advantage of being pollution-free. Very often all we hear from the proponents of solar energy and energy research are the trendy, illustrative hopes of what may be derived. What we do need, of course, is an essential pOliCY grounded in fact and working towards realisation. 
I turn, as an example, to a Press statement that was put out by the Opposition spokesman for science and technology, the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  only 4 weeks after Darwin suffered so badly as a result of Cyclone Tracy. I read it as an example of the trendiness of the Opposition's understanding of the role and position of solar energy. The honourable member for Corangamite said: 
The climate in Darwin would enable existing technology to make major savings in the use of conventional funds, but there is much more to be done in widening the application of solar energy in Australia beyond purely household uses. 
From that statement, it is obvious that the honourable member sees a very limited role for solar energy. Yet, suddenly, without further research or development, the honourable member hopes that solar energy will be used for many, many more purposes. 
There is nothing thinner than a policy such as this which emanates not from the shadow Minister for minerals and energy but from one who speaks in respect of science and technology. There is no understanding of the necessity to coordinate and program in a logical fashion the different sources of energy and the different uses of energy. Merely to produce a statement of the trendy, thin nature of the one that I have quoted shows the shallowness of the policy. That policy was expounded under the former Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden).  I wonder what thin, trendy policy we can expect now under the leadership of the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  said that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is the spokesman for our policy, showed that we lived in the past, that our POliCY was not rooted and established in current progress. The facts do not support his case. The examination of the type of statement that we have heard from the Opposition spokesman on science and technology shows that the converse is true. Our pOliCY on which the Minister bases bis statements and his policies, is set out in our Party platform. It states: 
Labor will encourage research and development of energy conversion methods which entail minimum pollution of the environment, such as solar energy and tidal power. The results of such research will be disseminated as widely as possible, particularly to under-developed countries. 
That statement of policy, now realised through the Minister for Minerals and Energy, sets out how we should investigate a whole range of nonpolluting sources of energy and how the information about the results of that research should be spread to other countries so that we can share and develop these achievements even further. The POliCY of the Labor Party goes on to provide that the Labor Party would:  . . . give particular support to areas in which Australia can make a special contribution . . . 
Included in those areas is solar energy. In that POliCY we recognise that we should take an initiative in an area where we can make a specific contribution. 
A rational, progressive, research and development policy, I would imagine, would have 3 elements that are essential and imperative. Those elements would be sufficient funding, coordinated research and integrated research. The basis of past complaints from scientists often is that sufficient funds are not provided for solar energy research. All that we have heard from the Opposition is a constant barrage of reasons and excuses why this Government should contract and restrict Government expenditure. Opposition members have not the courage to explain where those cuts should be made. Like little Jacks in the boxes, in every debate that takes place in this Parliament, Opposition members accuse us of cutting back Government expenditure too far. Research on solar energy is a case in point. It should be noted that this Government has not cut back expenditure on research into solar energy but has managed in that rather inventive and constructive debate to maintain the expenditure in real terms on solar energy. 
There have been reasons for complaints by scientists in the past of a lack of private enterprise and public enterprise- Government interest- in promoting energy research in such areas as solar energy. For instance, Professor Blevin of Flinders University in Adelaide said that sufficient funds and proper direction were lacking in major solar energy research in Australia. It is not surprising that the Minister for Minerals and Energy has not achieved a great amount. What he has been doing is tying up loose ends so that progress can be made on a solid basis. It is because of the lack of interest and the lack of funding on the part of the previous Government that the honourable member for Stirling can say that the Minister for Minerals and Energy had not made any progress. Obviously we must establish a basis or a stage from which we can catapault into the area of energy research. 
Opposition members do not have any understanding of the relationship between different sources of energy or any time scale as to the progress which can be made in research into energy uses. One would think that there was only one source of energy, or perhaps two. First of all their minds are dominated by oil. It is their only real interest because they are backed heavily at the times when they need campaign funds by the oil companies and the multinational companies which spread their oily fingers throughout the world. 
Brief mention was made by the honourable member for Stirling of hydrogenation or conversion of coal. There seems to be a rift in the Opposition in the attitude of its members to obtaining oil from coal. The honourable member for Stirling said that it was uneconomic. But if we turn to the numerous speeches made in this chamber by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)-  I notice that the honourable member is now making a few notes, no doubt with the intention of bringing up the subject- we find that he says that this is feasible. He lives in the coal producing area of Morwell and Yallourn. He has seen this process operate in Germany. He says it is feasible as a source of oil. He has been to Johannesburg and seen the operations there. It will be interesting to hear the honourable member for McMillan refute what the honourable member for Stirling has said. Because of his proximity to, his interest in and his devotion to his coal bearing scene, I would prefer to put a bit more money on the words of the honourable member for McMillan. 
What is important is to realise that it is only our immediate needs which will be satisfied from oil production. Most spokesmen on and those people who understand matters relating to energy tell us that our oil reserves, even if we were to devote countless millions of dollars to research and to oil exploration, will run out in 10 years. We need to look forward and to start to do more research and more development work on coal conversion. We must realise as well that solar energy will not be with us for the next decade or 2 decades, except in a purely domestic form. It is only when we realise the co-ordination that is needed between the different forms of energy and when we appreciate the time scale involved in obtaining energy from different sources that we can really have a co-ordinated and effective energy policy and program. I compliment the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The occasion of this debate on the estimates gives me the opportunity to say that this Government does have a rational policy. The Opposition has no more than a trendy, thin, wafer-like statement to contribute. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
-In rising to speak on the Appropriation Bill as it concerns the expenditure for the Department of the Special Minister of State I should like to concentrate on the Grants Commission, which is now concerned with 3 levels of government- national, State and local- although we must constantly remind the Opposition of the national responsibility. As each level has developed, new ways of providing finance to carry out their responsibilities have been necessary. The Opposition's recently announced policy on federalism has focused attention on this topic once again. I thank the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  for his exposition and repetition tonight. Basically this is a policy to return a fixed percentage of revenue, and income tax rights to the States and to return to a colonial system of government which was old hat 75 years ago. The Opposition wants to return us to nothing more than what was described by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  as double tax. 
Ideas for extra revenue from struggling local government are not new. They were however more honest. Since the incorporation of local government bodies over 100 years ago they have largely relied on raising their own revenuelevies on services and rates on property. This source of funds has proved to be inequitable, inefficient and insufficient and they have had to have their revenue supplemented by the States. The expanding duties of local government have exhausted the bases which State laws have prescribed for revenue raising despite State machinery to ease the load. Western Australia has developed a local government assistance fund committee and there are two State level grants commissions operating in New South Wales and Queensland. It seems that the Opposition wants more of these little grants commissions in each State but ignores the fact that the funds available for each State commission are extremely limited. They come from a total single fund. The Opposition's system would lead to duplication and waste and to no advance at all in the welfare of local government. 
Local government has been forced to look to the national government for assistance and to break the stranglehold on it by the State governments. It is looking to a system which would allow local government authorities to retain their autonomy and yet gain more funds. Despite having the strongest grip on fund raising in Australia, the Liberal-Country Party Government for the 23 years it was in office neglected the plight of local government. The extension by this Government of the Grants Commission is the first concerted effort to assist local government. This new federalism of the Australian Labor Government goes a long way to restore the balance between finances and functions. Effective performance is not domination but consultation, not centralism but co-ordination. The extended Grants Commission does this quite well and is adequately supported by other government programs such as the area improvement program. 
The Opposition has concocted its new approach of granting a fixed percentage of national government revenue to the States and through the States to local government, I believe, belatedly and belligerently. It claims that the reason for its ill conceived policy is to prevent the concentration of power in a few hands. We heard this again tonight from the honourable member for Curtin. He is confused. The Opposition is confused. The honourable member for Curtin confuses socialism with centralism. He confuses co-operation with concentration. I point out that more action by a national government need not mean more power. National involvement in planning and financing is not incompatible with co-operative planning. The Grants Commission, the area improvement programs and so on prove this to be so. Rather it is essential to successful co-operative planning under our Australian system. The Opposition wants to ignore the national perspective, the national responsibility, and establish those several State bodies which do not reflect gross inequalities between councils that would arise from this multitude, this plethora, of States grants commissions. The Opposition's policies do not achieve this either. 
The Opposition does not give details in its policy but leaves it open to more confusion and speculation, but the Opposition does rely on flat per capita grants. That the Opposition has not denied. This surely is a refusal to recognise that many areas of Australia are unequal and need unequal treatment and unequal amounts of funds to overcome these inequalities. Developing areas such as in the western suburbs of Sydney or the eastern and western suburbs of Melbourne need adequate topping up finances so that they can maintain adequate services. Local government bodies in these areas would be forced otherwise to increase levies, charges and rates, particularly on low and middle wage earning ratepayers. 
For example, in the outer eastern suburbs of Melbourne the Australian Government with the full co-operation of local government, has established the outer eastern region which takes in 9 different local government authorities. Four of these form a particular region. They are the local authorities for Healesville, Upper Yarra, Sherbrooke and Lilydale, which are denied income from the normal rate revenue and levies because they have large unratable areas- water conservation areas, reserves, parks and forest areas on which rates are not payable. If you look carefully at the $ 1 .832m that was allocated to the outer eastern region you will notice that for the areas that are limited in gaining their own revenues there is a 40 per cent increase over last year. When you take into account Croydon, Knox, Nunawading, Ringwood and Waverley that do have access to a growing population and to an increased growing revenue, the increase over last year is 8 per cent. Surely there is no better example to demonstrate that the Australian level Grants Commission is fully equipped and practically able to provide these grants which take into account the unequal circmstances and the unequal revenue sources of local government. 
The Opposition would like to introduce 6 unnecessary States grants commission which would be not only wasteful but also more expensive. I mentioned double tax. There would also be double cost under the Opposition's system. Because of the way that the laws are framed in the States they do not take account of the necessity to equalise funding within regions or within local government authorities. They must be therefore less effective. Members of the Opposition fall into their own trap of rhetoric. They decry concentration of power, yet their proposals under this revamped, lately thought about new federalism will concentrate power in each State capital, and by concentrating power in each State capital effectively strangle the autonomy of local government. They will bring about an imbalance, an inconsistency and a lack of uniformity. Their proposals will reshackle and limit local government and regional development. The Opposition, in reality and totality, wishes to dominate local government. 
If you look forward it is not difficult to predict accurately the results if ever the Opposition is in a position to implement its plans. I would anticipate that rates would rise dramatically. Already in Sydney they are around $400 to $500 for the average householder block. In Melbourne it is not uncommon to find them around $150 to $250. But ratepayers can expect under the Opposition's scheme, should it ever come into operation, to pay an increase. They can expect to face much higher rates in the future. Otherwise local government will be forced to increase loans to gain more revenue and will face the consequential increased debt burden of having to pay off the increased rates of interest. It should be remembered that the Opposition opposed the Government's scheme for the Government to be able to borrow on behalf of local government. Members of the Opposition cannot have it both ways. Are they going to force local government now to pay higher interest charges and yet deny local government access to lower interest rates through loans by this Government? 
It would be the developing local governments which would suffer most. We would see no end to, but rather an intensification of the scramble in Canberra by States which want to increase their percentage allocation of funds. They would be constantly begging the federal government for increased funds, fighting the federal government, but now fighting with all other State governments as well. We would lose any coordinated voice. There would be a loss of national character; we would be no longer Australian. We would all revert to colonial type. 
But most importantly, the Federal Government would lose the control over economic management in Australia. We would have 6 different centres of economic control, particularly if Government expenditure and taxation receipts were to drop. The State governments might want to increase it. We could have no control over the economy of this country. I support the philosophy of the Grants Commission in this Appropriation Bill. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made avaialbe to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice; 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister for Northern Australia upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way or (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants were available through the former Department of the Northern Territory to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. ' 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies, and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of allegations that two senior officers of his Department have been criticised by the Hearing Aid Council of Australia for misleading him and failing to inform him adequately of matters concerning Government policy? Can the Minister indicate what action he has taken or intends to take as a result of these allegations? 
-In rising to speak on the appropriation for the Department of the Attorney-General I wish to direct my remarks to expenditure on the Australian Legal Aid Office. It is almost an axiom to say that people are equal under the law but this is true only if people have equal access to the law or are able to afford to take the matter to the court to gain justice. At the moment the battle between the ordinary person and big governments, big business or the wealthy is often akin to a battle between David and Goliath. Equal access can be obtained with legal aid and the Australian Government has established the ALAO to ensure equal access under the law. I will not rely on alleged prejudices or hopes of this Government but on facts and research to support the Government's intention to continue to provide access to the law to all those who require it and especially to those who normally could not afford it. 
I turn for support to a survey carried out by Australian National Opinion Polls during May 1975 in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. It was a broad-ranging study aimed at deriving information on the implications of legal aid in this country and whether it was actually necessary. Results showed a high awareness of the existence of the Australian Legal Aid Office despite the fact that legal aid at the national level is a new concept. It is an initiative of this Government. Awareness is due to 2 main factors- the way it operates and how it has been advertised. It is interesting to note that the operation of the Australian Legal Aid Office is not in some obscure, out of the way, hidden high rise office block but operates on the shop front principle where it is easily accessible, identifiable and relevant to ordinary people. 
The Australian Government also carried out an extensive advertising program to bring the Australian Legal Aid Office and legal aid to the attention of ordinary people. We used television in a very effective, communicable program. We also advertised extensively, as a supplement, through the  Australian Women's Weekly.  Yet this Government was criticised strongly by the Opposition for spending money on advertising the service. Of course, it dressed its criticism up differently and argued that we were advertising our policy with taxpayers' funds. Nothing could be further from the truth. We were advertising a service provided by public money and it is an obvious thing that if one is to use the taxpayer's money he should be aware that it is available to him, that the service provided by taxpayers' money is there and what it can do. It is not criticism that we merited; surely it was a pat on the back. The survey also showed that the need for the Australian Legal Aid Office was recognised by nearly everyone interviewed. I seek to incorporate in  Hansard  an extract from that poll to make this point. 

<graphic href="096131197510014_65_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Committee. Clearly a problem that the Australian Legal Aid Office will not face is the need to convince the Australian community of the desirability of the establishment itself. These results are quite extraordinary in the magnitude of the recognition of need itself. Seldom do research figures show such massive convergence on an issue. More than nine in ten, or 94 per cent, of those interviewed do see a need for the Australian Legal Aid Office. There are a few pockets in the community where the need is perceived as not so great. There is perhaps a slight tendency for the better educated to perceive a greater need, but the variations are not big. Indeed variations are not apparent at aU across age, sex and, importantly, are not apparent across the political Party support groupings. If there is an isolated group not prepared to acknowledge the need for the Office then it may well be simply those who have not heard of it. Whereas 96 per cent of those already claiming awareness of the ALAO acknowledge the need for it, only 80 per cent of those unaware of it did likewise. It appears valid to suggest that resistance to the concept of the ALAO decreases as the knowledge of its operation increases. 
Certainly it would seem that the best way of breaking down potential resistance to the principle is simply to tell the people all about it. But as I said, the Opposition opposes giving this information to the taxpayers about how their taxpaying money is spent. This recognition of need is almost universal. Yet the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his speech on the Budget promised to dismantle it to save the public expenditure of $8.7m while depriving persons in need, disadvantaged persons, of the advice and assistance that they could have. This service would save the persons in need millions of dollars and thousands of hours of "worry and concern, and yet he claims a saving of $ 16.7m. I said $8. 7m because, $7m is included in that amount to go to legal practitioners in the private sector and $ 1 m for States to supplement legal aid systems there. 
The honourable member for Wannon is typical in his action of the elitist  laissez-faire  philosophy which guides so many of the actions of the present Liberal leader. It is an insensitive promise inspired by vested interests which take no account of the many thousands of people who would be denied access to the law and legal remedies simply because they could not afford the service of lawyers. Inquiries to the ALAO's 30 offices throughout Australia are running at 10 000 a month and the rate is increasing. The offices handle hundreds of problems daily in the fields of family law, hire purchase agreements, landlord and tenant disputes, motor vehicle accidents, criminal law and police offences. What does the Leader of the Opposition propose should happen to these people in need? Are they to be left to the mercy of unscrupulous business operators? Are they to be consigned for economic reasons to broken marriages, unjust penalties, under-representation in the courts? Are they to be told that there is nothing we can do when their homes, their marriages or their livelihoods are threatened? 
It is important that the people of Australia know just how out of step is the thinking of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the Australian Legal Aid Office. The plan of destruction is supported by a plan of obstruction, an obstruction in the way of a challenge by private lawyers in the High Court on constitutional grounds, grounds which mask the real objection by those conservative elements. The reasons they claim are allegedly depriving private solicitors of work; creating an over-burdened legal system, such that personalised service and standards will suffer; also naturally, being part of a Labor Government's alleged program of intervention into private professions. This is the Medibank struggle all over again. These are the same arguments put up against 2 popular initiatives of this Government- Medibank and community health programs. The lawyers' fears will prove to be as groundless as those of the genera! practitioners. 
Just as the community health services have taken the excess load off the GP and mainly serviced those who normally would not have gone to a doctor through not being able to pay, so it is with the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Legal Aid Office has dealt with people who would not normally have gone to a lawyer and often has referred cases to lawyers and barristers to handle in the private sector. All law societies in Australia accept the need for a government financed legal aid service. The Australian Legal Aid Office will co-operate, not compete, with private lawyers. It is time that the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition recognised these facts. The survey showed that most people see the Australian Legal Aid Office as being mainly concerned with providing legal aid to disadvantaged peoplethose financially not so well off- that assistance mainly being restricted to marital problems, property, rent and eviction matters. This is not a true picture. It is not the entire picture. The Australian Legal Aid Office will also provide legal aid for the culturally and socially disadvantaged, for migrants as well as community groups and for the inarticulate. I seek leave to incorporate another table in  Hansard  indicating the types of service and the number of calls upon those services at Victorian offices of the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN (Mr  Keith Johnson)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="096131197510014_66_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197510014_67_2.jpg"></graphic>

-The table indicates the low call on legal aid for environmental matters. Let me illustrate with an example the misunderstanding about what legal aid is and its availability for environmental matters. Recently the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  announced that assistance to the value of about $5,000 to $6,000 would be given to a woman at Ferntree Gully to fight against quarry operations which were allegedly despoiling the environment and encroaching onto the communal rights of nearby residents. In requesting assistance she was representing not only local residents but also a conservation group. The local council in whose shire the quarry operated discussed the assistance and some councils objected to the Australian Government interfering with what was a State and local government matter. It should be noted that this council had co-operated with the State Government to evolve a quarry plan in their area- the Dandenongs- which would allegedly bring minimum despoliation to the area through necessary quarry operations. The interpretation was that the Australian Government interfered in areas outside its concern and it sided with the woman and the environmentalists, whereas the facts were that after the woman had established that she had a  prima facie  case against the quarry company she required legal assistance, to take her case to the court. The Australian Government did not have an opinion on the matter in question. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What financial assistance by way of 
grants, repayable or non-repayable; 
loans at varying rates of interest; 
subsidies; and 
matching grants are available through the Department to non government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local Government. 
-In rising to speak on the appropriations for the Department of Environment, I wish to direct my remarks to the sum of $315,000 set aside for the costs associated with public hearings held as part of the preparation of environmental impact statements. This amount of money is ten times that set aside last year when $31,762 was expended for this purpose. The expenditure is quite necessary if the full intentions of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act are to be achieved. It is essential that the public be involved if forward planning and successful protection of the environment are to be achieved. The environmental impact statement approach goes a long way towards achieving this end. 
In any community plan, there will be a conflict of interest, each party or person hoping to benefit most out of decisions that will be made. Or to put it another way, each party or person hopes to lose little or nothing from compromise proposals that eventuate. Without consultation and participation, each self-interested party will treat the decisions and plans with suspicion. The plans, however reasonable, will have little likelihood of lasting or working. The plans are likely to be more relevant if all people are involved and, therefore, likely to be more cost effective. Public discussion helps to overcome the apathy and the 'we' and 'they' cynicism which can prejudice the attitudes of people to government and to their role in planning. If government is willing to listen to the voice of the people, the more support it is likely to gain, if at some future time there are serious confrontations on controversial issues. 
Let me give some examples of conflict and of plans likely to fail in Victoria because people have not been given a continuous opportunity to participate in the planning process. Lack of consultation has led to the situation where it appears that unreasonable extremist conservationists are pitted against unreasonable extremist profitoriented landholders. Lack of consultation has meant that a backlash has developed over State Government planning in Victoria to protect and to preserve Melbourne's playground areas. Most of that backlash has come from within the Liberal Party, from people whom one would normally expect to support a Liberal Government's policies. 
In an article in the Melbourne  Herald  yesterday, Bruce Baskett said: 
The kick that has been felt by the State Government is anti-planning, anti-government interference and in favour of letting people do what they want with their own lives, house and land. 
The planning and environment Ministers in the Hamer Government,  Mr Hunt  and  Mr Borthwick,  have come under partly unjustified attack to the point where  Mr Hunt  was forced in exasperation to say: 
It would in many ways be simpler for a government to make no policy announcements on planning matters and to allow events simply to take their course. 
That would be an abandonment of the Government's responsibility and an abandonment of planning. 
Planning is essential to safeguard the future and to enable scarce resources to be used to the best advantage of the community at large. 
I fully concur with  Mr Hunt's  comments. Because platforms and policies of the major parties are often, in places, written in generalities, they are fairly similar. For example, in similar terms to the platform of the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party's own platform provides for 'recognition that effective and sensible land use planning is essential to provide for orderly development, preserve the environment, and maintain and enhance the quality of life '. But the difference in the implementation of these policies is important. 
The Labor Government requires the consideration of environmental factors and public opinion through the use of environmental impact study techniques and later public inquiries before its decisions are made and implemented. The public is to be involved before final decisions are made- not after a Cabinet decision has been made as occurs in Victoria. If the Liberal State Government did follow the Australian Government's technique, perhaps the clash with Liberal voting land holders could have been avoided. For example, the protest against the conservation plan for the Mornington Peninsula was led by the Peninsula Rural Landholders Association whose  Chairman  is  Mr Doug  Jennings.  Mr Jennings  is  Chairman  of the Flinders electorate committee of the Liberal Party and won preselection for the Westernport seat in the Assembly. He is a member of the Jennings building and land development family. It is true that the Mornington conservation plan is on exhibition for public comment, but obviously participation is restricted to making objections. That sort of participation which is restricted to making objections to a plan is insufficient and too limited to bring about cooperation between the parties involved . 
What is required is that the public participate fully at all stages of the planning process. If objections to a scheme are relied upon and if experience elsewhere is a guide, our planners will be subject to even greater pressure than previously from the what-is-in-it-for-me syndrome on the part of the more articulate. Majority and minority interests do not necessarily correspond with the loudest and the weakest voices. Further, it seems that people organise more easily into pressure groups for the opposition of specific proposals than they do into general interest groups able to give a considered opinion of a plan in general. Participation through planning and the provision of environmental impact studies would encourage positive attitudes rather than negative attitudes. 
To give another example, it is believed that big land holders have put pressure on local Liberal members of Parliament successfully to have the proposal to establish a Geelong Regional Planning Authority axed. The State Government says that it will not go ahead with the authority legislation until Federal Government finance is guaranteed, and none was provided in this year's Federal Budget. But the Australian Government would be unwise to provide the $20m until the authority is set up. Such an authority could ensure that the public was fully consulted, that the rights of the community and of individuals were upheld, and that land values were regulated so that some individuals did not gain unearned windfalls from taxpayers' money. 
Of course, the Australian Government would require an environmental impact statement on programs which involve expenditure of Australian Government money- that is, where the money is identifiable as being Australian Government funds. Construction projects could include such items as regional growth centres, redevelopment schemes and land purchased by the States for national parks and reserves. An environmental impact study would need to take into account many factors, including the impact of the proposal on the physical environment, the flora and fauna, and man made materials. It would need to take into account also the social environment such as health, employment, safety, the community, recreation and privacy. If the publication of such an environmental impact statement resulted in public comments which questioned whether the proposal had been considered adequately, then the Minister could call for a public inquiry to follow, although I suspect, and it is expected, that only a small proportion of such statements would result in public inquiries. 
The Australian Government is anxious that people be encouraged to participate fully in decisions which affect their environment. Accordingly, finance is being provided to environment centres and conservation organisations to enable them to co-ordinate the activities of community groups. The Government is also assisting with technical expertise, public education programs and legal aid through the Australian Legal Aid Office. Public discussion of local proposals slows down the planning process. There is no doubt about that. But the time taken is well spent if it helps to build up residents' confidence in thenarea and in governments' intentions for its future. 
I mentioned in another debate that the Australian Government had given $5,000 to $6,000 in legal aid to a woman in Ferntree Gully to argue in the Supreme Court of Victoria against the extension of a licence for the quarry in the area to operate. Local government had cooperated with the State Government to bring about the re-organisation of the quarry operations in the Dandenongs also to minimise the impact on the environment. Both parties thought that their plan was the best one to minimise the impact on the environment. Some councillors discussed that grant by the Australian Legal Aid Office and argued that the Australian Government had gone beyond its sphere of concern. But, as it turns out, the Australian Government had no opinion on the matter; that was irrelevant. The Government did feel that it had an obligation to provide assistance so that this woman had equal access to the law as did the company equipped with its own lawyers and finance. The matter in question, whether the quarry was operating without a licence, was to be determined by the Supreme Court of Victoria. In no way could it be said that the Australian Government interfered. It is extremely important that that sort of assistance be given by the Australian Government and that environmental impact studies and public inquiries be carried out if all people in the community are to have their rights observed and the community rights observed. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
-Unions and individual wage earners have fought for years to increase their earnings so that they might improve their standard of living. But what is more money if people cannot get value for money? They are sold shoddy goods. Working people are now concentrating on getting more value for money rather than simply getting more money. Consumer power is increasing due to individuals like Ralph Nader and voluntary organisations. About 30 voluntary associations in Australia are concerned with consumer affairs. They have recently formed themselves into the Australian Federated Consumers Organisation. It takes courage and money to fight for the rights of consumers. They get value for money only when they get what they think they are buying. Most people are unaware of those associations. They alone bear the load. State governments have partly taken up the responsibility and have been persuaded to set up consumer protection bureaus and tribunals led by officials who publish hard-hitting reports naming enterprises against which complaints are being made and substantiated. 
The field of consumer protection is wide and covers, amongst other things, product information, safety standards, misleading or false representations, product quality, selling systems, liability for unsolicited goods and credit transactions. For instance, the Victorian Government, to support the consumers, has set up a consumer affairs bureau, which was established in November 1970, a small claims tribunal, a director of consumer affairs to advise the Minister and a 10 member consumer affairs council. 
Despite the action taken complaints from consumers continue. I shall give a few examples to the House. The bulk of complaints to the badly under-staffed consumer affairs bureau in Victoriathese are the latest figures- indicate a dramatic upsurge in complaints in recent months. Since its inception more than 4 years ago it has received 23 000 complaints and this year it expects to get 10 000 complaints, about 840 a month, mostly about cars, buildings, electrical appliances, repairs and servicing and clothing. Other complaints concern advertising, floor con.verings, furniture, footwear, dry cleaning, laundering, hiring, insurance finance, education, health and fitness, packaging, dangerous and hazardous products, door sales, mail order sales, prices and professional services. 
Despite the efforts of the States- they will continue no doubt- the Federal Government now wishes to establish a consumer protection authority to supplement the work of the State governments and voluntary bodies. There is a case perhaps to be argued that consumer interests can best be looked after by the consumers themselves. The private bodies, which led the way with dedication, persistence and meagre resources, embody to perfection the essential characteristics of the movement. They represent the consumers and they are totally independent. 
They know exactly what is needed and how to get tt. The Consumers Association in Britain and the Consumer Federation of America are just 2 examples of private groups which have been successful. The proposed authority will have to work closely with those voluntary groups. 
It could also be argued that the function of governments should perhaps be confined to the making of laws to protect the consumer and to providing tribunals for the adjudication of complaints and for the enforcement of standards against offenders for whom warnings and reason have been ineffective. The government role could also include financial assistance for private consumer groups, which are by definition non profit-making and rely on yearly subscriptions for their income. We believe that various powers and machinery covering consumer and trading standards and practices at the federal level should come under one umbrella while complementing the work of the States and supporting consumer groups. 
Consumer protection falls roughly into 2 areas- preventing complaints by establishing standards and educating the buyer and using moral persuasion. If consumer advice and education are to be of value to the consumer they must be readily available, free and relevant. The Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has been overseas and no doubt will borrow heavily from overseas experience and will adapt the Swedish idea of establishing store front advice centres. The Swedes found that most consumer protection activity centred too much on helping the upper middle class rather than the disadvantaged or low income groups. They said that too much advice was being given about refrigerators, television sets and similar items, which are bought once or twice in a lifetime, and not enough about day to day items such as meat, vegetables and other foodstuffs. The shop front centre would get through to people such as pensioners who are unable to do comparative shopping because they cannot get around like other people. Sixty such shop front centres operate successfully in the United Kingdom. The centres could give out leaflets on specific products or booklets which are more comprehensive, similar to the magazine Choice produced by a voluntary organisation in Australia. That sort of thing operates in Germany. 
The second section of consumer protection is mainly that of redressing complaints through sanctions, publicity or legal means. The proposed authority would take over the responsibility for administering section 5 of the Trade 
Practices Act which is based on the corporation's power. But it will rely on State co-operation when dealing with other than companies. The Opposition claims that our proposals have been prepared in haste. On its definition and record haste involves something which is achieved in less than 23 years of office. That is not good enough for the consumer. 
We have had the idea of consumer protection in our party platform for some years. There is draft legislation backed by much local and overseas experience. I believe the charge of too much haste is merely a delaying tactic. The Opposition claims that the proposed authority would be unnecessary and that the functions could be carried out by the Trade Practices Commission. The scientific and legal standards of fair market practices are, as the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  said, clearly and closely associated with each other as they are in the United Kingdom and the United States. It is simply that the Opposition believes the Trade Practices Act is sufficient whereby the Commission looks after competition policy and consumer protection as part of an integrated approach towards corporate market behaviour. 
We need to ask whether the one instrumentality can administer such disparate functions as the full regulation of the market place and the setting of standards for health, safety and other requirements. We believe associated matters must be administered by the same body if full benefit is to be obtained by the consumer. It is better that the proposed consumer affairs body should be operating at the public level than that the Trade Practices Commission, submerged in economic and market problems, should carry out the responsibility. The proposed authority would be ably backed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories and the Australian Standards Association, although the Australian Standards Association is concerned mainly with technical standards. It is timely to mention one of its initiatives which has borne fruit recently. The Australian Standards Association urged a ban on the manufacture of all flammable fabrics. This matter arose a few years ago when the Australian Consumers Association made the same point. Now it appears that children's nightwear made of flammable fabric will be banned in Australia and governments are expected soon to ban all clothing made of flammable material. The Victorian Minister has said that all States had backed the move and that Victoria would introduce legislation effective from the first of next month and other States would soon follow. We see here a concerted effort from voluntary organisations and State bodies backed by the Australian Standards Association. 
Where does the Opposition stand? It has said that it wants to delay the legislation for a couple of months, but it will not actually oppose it. Now the honourable member for Bennelong has said that the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs should delay the proposed consumer protection Bill to enable further consideration of the Government's proposals by interested parties. Why does the Opposition want the delay? Is it against consumer protection? I believe it is because it is wedded to and obsessed with the profit motive at all costs- what the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has called 'the great rip-ofT. 
As the honourable member for Bennelong has said, the proposed consumer protection authority will not work if it concentrates solely on the buyer and not on the seller and if it seeks to protect the buyer without regard for the rights of the seller. Vendors must see the benefits flowing from an Australian consumer protection authority. Responsible manufacturers will benefit from a tightening up of regulations, laws and supervision of standards because their competition from manufacturers of shoddy and cheap goods will be less. Manufacturers can produce in confidence knowing the standards that they must meet. Favourable publicity and recommendation would be given to the best quality goods. That is why I believe this Parliament and this Government should effectively enter the field of protecting consumer interests. 
-I do not wish to- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I remind the Committee who is in charge of this debate. I have called the honourable member for La Trobe. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Honourable members will resume their seats. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call the honourable member for Mackellar. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member will resume his seat. No point of order is involved. There is nothing in the Standing Orders to suggest that members should be called from one side or the other. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now  put. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The question is that the question be now put. Those of that opinion say aye; to the contrary no. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I think the noes have it. I call the honourable member for La Trobe. 
I do not wish to join the fight between the 2" competing Opposition spokesmen for the Media, the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  or the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  and I do not wish to discount the number of communists in the Australian Broadcasting Commission mentioned by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I wish to direct my time in this debate to the quality of television reception in some areas of Australia. The Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  has made public the report on cable television services in Australia. The report refers in particular to the urgent need to remedy some deficiencies in the reception of programs of existing television stations, particularly in urban areas and especially in Sydney, and for which cable networks are a solution. There are other places, such as the hilly areas on the periphery of large capital cities, and Warburton in my electorate is an example. 
In that report CATV refers to a cable television system designed to distribute only the programs of local television stations. Cable television, on the other hand, is the use of wide band cable for the distribution of program material additional to that from local television stations. CATV provides an alternative to transmission from a transmitting or translator station as a means of distributing television programs to viewers and has some advantages over radiated services. Cable systems have a potential to provide a great variety of television-type services of an entertainment, service, educational and business nature. A single cable can provide simultaneously a considerable number of different programs and/or services. The advantages of cable television are enormous and it is this range of uses which has brought the Minister and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to demand the re-examination of that report. The Government has referred the report back to the Broadcasting Control Board and the Commission for further information on its sociological and financial implications. It would be wasteful to implement a system that ignored all the future possibilities on a cost benefit basis. 
Currently 98 per cent of the population are capable of receiving good television reception. However, there are pockets of inadequate reception in built up areas within generally authorised areas of television coverage. Warburton, for instance, is less than 80 kilometres from the Melbourne General Post Office and only 48 kilometres from the transmitting towers on Mount Dandenong. In fact, some areas of Warburton are in a direct line from the television transmission. There are 1400 to 1500 people there but about 200 homes are receiving no adequate television reception. It is about them that I am concerned. Television reception generally is mixed but poor or non-existent for these people. The local people have not been idle in trying to get better services. Booster systems have been tried but they have not proved to be satisfactory. People are promised that for $500 they can be provided better television reception but persons who pay this amount find that the money has been wasted. 
In nearby Marysville another 400 to 500 people are waiting for developments in 
Warburton so that they can take advantage of this important communication. One community organisation, the Warburton Advancement League, has also been quite active. Its campaign was formed 7 years ago and since then it has invited technicians from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to Warburton to inspect the area. The people have been advised that the only satisfactory system would be a community antenna system using cables to the various houses. Already a suitable site has been found and approved by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria and by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The advantages of such a system to Warburton would not be just to home television viewers. For instance, it is not understood that the schools there do not receive good television reception and the education of the children consequently suffers. There are 3 primary schools in the area. There are 127 children in the State primary school, 92 to 100 at St Joseph's and 100 to 1 50 in the Seventh Day Adventist Primary school- a total of about 350 children in primary schools suffering in their education because they cannot get satisfactory television reception. 
Warburton is known as a tourist resort. Yet its potential is severely restricted because people are not attracted where they cannot get television during the night hours after having experienced the joys of the bush around that area. It seems unbelievable that it is almost 47 years since Baird discovered television, 19 years since television was introduced into Australia, 14 years since legislation was enacted in Australia to allow the establishment of cable television here and yet Warburton has unsatisfactory television reception, despite 8 years or so of activities by residents and the Warburton Advancement League. There is growing pressure to provide better television reception especially now that colour television is available. I earnestly bring the Minister's attention to recommendation No. 5 in the report on cable television. I must quote it: 
Cable networks for the distribution of local television programs may be provided for local community groups, at thenown expense, where such provision would upgrade reception earlier than the planned provision by the Government of the necessary cable facilities. Such privately funded networks would normally be provided by the APO. However, because of the need to set priorities within the limit of available resources, the ABCB with the agreement of the APO may authorise them to be provided privately. All privately funded networks shall be subject to take-over by the Government at an appropriate time with suitable compensation from Broadcasting and Television appropriations. 
There must be priorities. That is understood. But it will be several years before the 20 000 to 40 000 households in Australia will be provided with cable television at a cost of between $6m and $12m. I am talking, for television in Warburton, of something around $40,000 at the most, which the people are prepared to put up themselves. The cost of planning, installation and maintenance is to be borne later by the Australian Postal Commission. 
Here we have a possibility of the residents setting it up and being later compensated by the Commission. I point out that in Warburton much of the work has been done, and 200 residents have already paid $10 each into a trust fund and they are prepared to pay up to $200 each before negotiations really begin. Perhaps a loan could be arranged by the Minister, or some other special financial scheme could be implemented so that television can be provided to Warburton as soon as possible. Warburton is an important environmental area. A television cable system would enable it to do away with the unsightly roof antennas for each house and still provide a better service. So I recommend to the Minister that he give serious consideration to recommendation No. 5 and give an early indication to the people of Warburton that they will not be passed by as they were for so many years by the previous Government. 
-Tonight I wish to speak not as a supporter of the Government but as an individual member of Parliament. I wish to speak on the matter of political rights around the world and in Indonesia in particular. It is a tragedy that around the world most countries which are members of the United Nations are bound by the Declaration of Human Rights, yet there are violations of those rights to various degrees of incidence in more than a hundred of the member countries. There are many allegations, proofs and admissions of persecution and torture of political prisoners and the detention of prisoners without trial. Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, the Soviet Union, Spain, South Korea, Uganda, Argentina and Brazil are among the countries with long records of violations of human rights. The world looks with hope, some countries with suspicion, at the mass release of political prisoners in South Vietnam, Greece, Portugal and Mozambique. Those countries, as are all countries, are under watch to see that those freed are not replaced by the imprisonment of others. 
I wish to use my time tonight to direct an appeal to  President  Suharto on behalf of the victims of mass arrests, many of whom continue to languish in gaols and camps throughout Indonesia. The first of October 1975 will mark the tenth anniversary of the dramatic events which brought the present Government of Indonesia to power and triggered off one of the most terrible massacres of this century. It will also mark the tenth anniversary of the associated mass arrests, many of whose victims continue to languish in gaols and camps throughout Indonesia.  President  Suharto's 'new order' government, which succeeded the government of  President  Sukarno in the aftermath of the coup and counter-coup, has some important achievements to its credit. It ended the raging inflation of the late Sukarno years and wound up Sukarno's trouble making confrontation with Malaysia. It negotiated Indonesia's return to membership of the United Nations and re-established cordiality with its neighbour states. It has been consistently concerned for stable relations with this country and it has achieved an impressive rate of economic growth in recent years although there is much argument about the advantage of that for the great mass of Indonesian people, for fast growth has been accompanied by a sharp aggravation of inequalities. 
But the Suharto Government continues to bear the legacies of its birth, in particular the shame of a large number of untried political prisoners. It is difficult to know the exact number of political prisoners or Tapols as they are known, in Indonesia. On 16 July 1974 an editorial in the Jakarta newspaper  Sihar Harapan  stated that according to official figures there were more than 35 000 political prisoners in Indonesia. On the basis of information available in all parts of the Republic, in Sumatra, Java, Bali, Sulawesi, the Malaccas and Irian Jaya, Amnesty International claim that more than 55 000 untried political prisoners remain currently in detention. I seek leave to incorporated in  Hansard 2  tables, the first indicating the yearly release of Tapols since 1966, which gives a guide to the number of Tapols originally taken, and the second indicating the numbers admitted by the Indonesian authorities as still under detention and showing the 3 classifications of Tapols 

<graphic href="097131197510093_92_2.jpg"></graphic>

Note: While there have been releases of prisoners each year since 1965 there have also been further arrests and detentions. 
Category A: 2457- Those said to be directly involved in the coup attempt and scheduled for trial. 
Category B: 26 650-People thought to have been directly implicated but against whom there is insufficient evidence. 
Category C: 20 000-( Estimated by Amnesty International since no reference to Category C was made in the October 1973 figures.) Persons whom the authorities consider to have been indirectly involved in the coup, but to a lesser degree than those in Category B. Also persons with any indirect affiliations with or sympathies for the PKI. 
Category X: 71 14- Persons arrested but whose interrogation had not been completed and who had not been classified into Categories A, B and C. 
Figures for Categories A, B, and X supplied by General Ali Murtopo to Amnesty International, October 1 973. 
I especially appeal to the Indonesian Government to relieve the plight of the category B prisoners who are those that officials believe have insufficient evidence against them to place them on trial. To be held in prison without trial and without recourse to justice is probably one of the greatest infringements of the basic human rights of freedom and liberty, particularly when the Indonesian officials admit that such prisoners were not involved with the coup in 1965. 
I earnestly appeal that those prisoners either be brought to trial or released as soon as possible. I earnestly urge the Indonesian Government to bring to trial as soon as possible the category A prisoners who, officials believe, were involved in the 1965 coup. Currently, trials average about 100 a year, which means that some Tapols even those who are later proved to be innocent, will have been detained for more than 30 years. Honourable members will probably not fully recognise the freedom of political activity which they enjoy in Australia, and I wish to impress upon them by comparison the names of 17 former members of the Indonesian Parliament who were detained during 1965 and 1969. 1 seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a list of the names of known former members of Parliament who are still detained in prison camps. 

<graphic href="097131197510093_92_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="097131197510093_93_0.jpg"></graphic>

I wish to make a special appeal for the release of the aging  Mr Giok  Tjwan Siaw so that he might be allowed to apply for migration to Australia where he might join his 2 sons who now reside permanently in Victoria. 
The relative openness of those early years did not last. As its policies of economic stabilisation achieved success and Indonesia became more and more attractive to foreign investors its leaders decided to side against those critics who argued for reform. So the recommendations of the 1970 commission on corruption were effectively ignored and the student and Press critics whose clamourings have led the  President  to appoint that commission were cowed into silence. The trend to increasingly harsh repression reached a climax after the riots which took place when the Japanese Prime Minister,  Mr Tanaka,  visited Jakarta in January 1974. The riots provided the Government with a pretext for gaoling dozens of Indonesia's most prominent lawyers, academics and student leaders people who had spoken out critically in the previous 3 months and for closing down 1 1 of the country's most independent newspapers. Most of those critics remain in gaol and all of those newspapers remain banned. Thus, many of the civilian intellectuals who were vigorous supporters of the Suharto Government in its early years are now silenced critics. Independent trade unions are non-existent and the courageous voices of those who spoke up in those early years to remind their countrymen of the plight of the tens of thousands of political prisoners and their families are scarcely ever heard in public. 
One of those gaoled last year was Buyung Nasution, a lawyer and the director of the legal aid bureau, who had sought to advise and defend the civil rights of so many Indonesians who were victims of the purges. I must congratulate the Indonesian Government and express my thanks that that gentleman has just been released after 18 months of detention without trial. It is hoped that that is a sign of progress by the Indonesian Government, and I hope that Buyung Nasution will be able to practise quite freely after his release, without restriction, to assist people to exercise their human rights. I hope that this act is an indication of goodwill and demonstrates a change of heart by the 
Indonesian Government which had grown more intolerant of its critics. Its rebuff to the Amnesty International mission, which visited Indonesia in January 1975 a predominantly Australian mission including  Senator Peter  Baume and led by  Mr Dick  McGarvie, Q.C.,  President  of the Victorian Bar Council was in marked contrast to the co-operation which its leaders have shown to the 3 previous International Amnesty missions to Indonesia in 1966, 1969 and 1970.I appeal to the Indonesian Government to relieve the plight and increase the welfare of the Tapols. I appeal that it allow independent observers to inspect the prisons so that their improved welfare can be verified. 
I understand that during his Australian visit  President  Suharto informed our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that he would welcome visits to Indonesia by Australian lawyers. Yet when members of the International Commission of Jurists approached the Indonesian Embassy for visas they were delayed 3 weeks before being advised that the Indonesian Government had refused the issue of their visas. I appeal that those visas be granted. 
It was seriously expected by many observers that thousands of political internees who were not to be tried would be amnested on the 30th anniversary of Indonesian independence on 17 August 1975. A number of prisoners' wives had also been led to the same hope by prison and camp officials. In the event, the  President  used that day to announce an amnesty of 2438 prisoners held for civil and criminal offences and to reduce the sentences of another 12 255 of those prisoners. But he announced no amnesty for any of the Tapols. Over the years there has been little or no overall improvement in their conditions. Food allowances made available to camp commandants are still as low as 15c a prisoner a day in many camps and medical facilities remain virtually non- existent despite the new buoyancy of the Suharto Government's revenues since the tripling of overseas prices for Indonesia's oil 2 years ago. 
On the tenth anniversary of the coup, the counter-coup, the massacres and the mass incarcerations in Indonesia I believe it is my responsibility as an individual member of Parliament to join the occasional voices from Australian universities and student organisations, churches, trade unions, lawyers associations, and so on which have been heard as have similar voices from other countries. In today's world of atrocities people too easily become accustomed to continuing reports of cruel and inhuman treatment to human beings of whom they know little. But if we ignore infringements of liberty, freedom and the rights of men and women throughout the world we cheapen the respect we hold for our own freedoms and we move closer to the total enslavement of all mankind. 
-On behalf of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation I bring up the report of the Committee on development pressures on Jervis Bay 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-Government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. On several occasions since the presentation of the Budget, details of health allocations in Victoria and other States have been announced. An analysis of the figures involved compared with the populations suggests that Victoria has not received its rightful share of funds under the community health program, the school dental scheme, and health planning and research grants. Can the Minister explain the apparent discrimination against Victoria in the provision of funds by the Australian Government for health projects, and can the Minister indicate the future of health programs should the Budget be rejected or deferred in another place? 
-A succession of travel agency failures over the last few years has prompted the travel industry to turn to the Australian Government to regulate the industry so that those  bona fide  and trustworthy agents are protected from the odium of the sharks and the fly-by-night operators. At the same time there have been demands from the public at large for travellers to be protected and shielded from committing large outlays towards holidays and tours that either never materialise or evaporate half-way in some inaccessible foreign country. Over the past 5 years at least 20 agencies have crashed or quietly closed their doors. Some of the worst are memorable. Travel House of Australia, the country's biggest travel agency with 31 offices in all States, collapsed in July 1972 leaving at least 400 tourists stranded in London and Singapore, and the company was $700,000 in debt. In August 1972 John Forsyth Pty Ltd closed its 3 Sydney offices. It was more than $100,000 in debt and left 180 Australian travellers stranded in Malta. 
The Travel Agents Bill has been developed primarily to protect the travelling public and to minimise pecuniary loss and inconvenience as a result of the failure of a travel agency. The main ways by which protection will be achieved are through the registration of travel agents and the licensing of travel agencies, through special accounting arrangements and through a fidelity fund which will be used to compensate travellers who incur a financial loss caused by a travel agent. As the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  said in his second reading speech, the main constraints on travel agents at the moment are associated with the accreditation requirements of the major air and sea carriers and travel industry associations. Conservative estimates put the number of businesses operating ostensibly as travel agencies throughout the country at 1 500 and of these less than 50 per cent would have any recognised accreditation. Yet it is estimated that 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the $400mworth of air tickets that is written and sold each year is written by travel agents. 
Defaults by agents show that accreditation has provided insufficient protection to the traveller. All the efforts of the travel industry organisations to enforce their code of ethics have so far proved ineffective in preventing agency failures. Travel agencies have mushroomed in recent years with the upsurge in travel by Australians. Although the bulk of the industry is reputable and highly skilled its image has been tarnished by the activities of a handful of unethical operators. Even the watchdog of the industry, the Australian Federation of Travel Agents, which has about 560 members of whom 230 are in New South Wales alone, has been unable to police the industry mainly because there is no compulsion for anyone calling himself a travel agent to belong to the AFTA. The AFTA has tried to lay ground rules for anyone setting up as a travel agent, such as having a minimum capital of not less than $20,000, and by warning that it may be from three to five years before a new agency can become profitable. 
Travel agents make their profits from carrying companies and hotels, not from clients. Commissions vary. Five per cent is paid by domestic airlines, 7 per cent by overseas airlines and shipping companies, 10 per cent by group and package tour operators and 7 to 10 per cent by cruise operators. But before an agent can get commissionthat is backdated commission from an international airline he has to get accreditation from the International Air Transport Association or IATA. To get commission from a shipping company he needs accreditation from the Australian Passenger Agency Committee, or APAC. To get these accreditations he must build up certain volumes of business which may take 18 months to 3 years. Meanwhile the travel agent has to rely for a living on commissions paid by domestic airlines, hotels, coach operators and car rental firms. IATA and APAC examine the credentials of agents before accrediting them and hold bonds which can be as high as $100,000 against the agent's 'shooting through'. 
The basic and major reform in the Bill is the registration of travel agents. This in turn rests on a suitable definition of 'travel agent'. Obviously the Government does not wish to turn the industry upside down and to impose new definitions. It has worked closely with the industry and the Bill has been drawn up only after lengthy and detailed discussions with the industry and the States as well. The industry is completely satisfied with Part I, which defines the business of a travel agent. Rather than repeat the contents of the Bill, it might be better if I outlined the reasons why we need travel agents. This understanding explains why a travel agent should be defined, licensed and registered. 
A travel agent, if reputable and skilled, can save a traveller considerable sums of money by economically booking a journey and accommodation to suit the traveller's pocket. If the traveller deals direct with an airline or shipping company, he is likely to be pressured into travelling expensively, and he does not get the personalised service a travel agent can offer. An agent can also look after passports, health certificates, travellers' cheques and an array of other minor problems. In his traditional role, which was little more than that of a booking clerk, the travel agent is becoming redundant. What he must have now are the skill and zeal of a promoter or an entrepreneur. He has to be an expert at putting together a complete package of travel, selling it vigorously and then making sure he provides an after-sales service such as sorting out the tangles a traveller can become snared in while he is actually travelling. This close association with the customer demands that the public can trust wholeheartedly their agent. 
The Bill envisages that most of those who are operating as travel agents will qualify for registration and continue in the industry. But the future of the quality of the industry will depend upon the goodwill of those who co-ordinate and represent the industry as much as it will upon the effects of this Bill. It is comforting therefore to note that AFTA has taken the bit between the teeth and seeks to upgrade the quality of agents. Despite its limited funds, AFTA is trying to inject the travel agency business with a little more expertise. Through an associate body called the Institute of Travel, it has arranged courses at Sydney Technical College and the William Angliss Food School in Melbourne for would-be travel agents, covering subjects like law and the traveller, health, geography and accounting. It is also strengthening its ties with its international parent, the Universal Federation of Travel Agents Association, for several hundred young people already in the Australian travel industry to take a 3-months correspondence course covering the whole complex structure of international travel. This education program will assist the agent in fulfilling his duty required under Part VI of the Bill, which mainly is to 'exercise due care, skill or diligence in acting for a client'. Failure to do so could lead to the Board cancelling his licence. 
The States have ignored or refused to take up their responsibility in the travel field until recently. Under pressure the States have stirred a little, although they wished to see the Australian Government provide legislation. New South Wales introduced legislation to control travel agents as an interim measure until the Bill before the House becomes law. The travel agents themselves have pressed for State legislation too as an interim measure, but the desire of all State Ministers for Tourism and the tourist industry is for national legislation operating at national level. The Australian Federation of Travel Agents favours a Federal government system of licensing travel agents, because its officials fear that anomalies in legislation by the separate States could create loopholes enabling unethical agents to continue to operate. The industry is unhappy with the legislation as set up by New South Wales to license travel agents and to control the travel industry. New South Wales has done this by controlling the right of individuals and, through licensing, the right of companies to call themselves travel agents. Although the Act has some good points such as the issuing of licences and the maintenance of an official register under a 3-man board, there is little financial redress to the aggrieved traveller. 
The greatest flaw in New South Wales policies is the lack of provision for payments from a proposed fidelity fund until a conviction is secured against a defaulting or defrauding travel agent. Most travel agents deny responsibility for the tours they organise, even where a traveller is stranded overseas or accommodation is not up to the standard promised in writing. We might ask: 'Why should they?' They do not have the financial resources to withstand a claim for compensation. There is currently no provision for holding deposits in trust accounts, for fidelity funds or forms of inspection of accounting for them. Even with such provisions, no one would receive any compensation until a conviction had been secured. Even so, successful prosecution and recompense would not compensate the traveller for disruptions to his holiday arrangements and opportunities forgone as a result. 
It would seem that the misrepresentation would not be easy to prove. In dismissing a damages action brought against an agent by an Australian last year an English High Court judge said that only a child or an unsophisticated person took travel brochures literally. He said: 
It is very rare that the sea and sky are as blue as they are made out to be, that the flowers are so brilliant or the women are so beautiful. 
The principle of  caveat emptor  is forced on the buyer by such disclaimers as that contained in Cook's South Pacific tour brochures, which state that as agent the company shall not be liable for any injury, damage, loss, accident, delay, or irregularity which may be occasioned either by reason of any defect in any vehicle or through the acts or defaults of any company or person engaged in conveying the passenger or in carrying out any of the arrangements of the tour. With that sort of blanket indemnity against themselves one can imagine that disappointed travellers and passengers have very little recourse to compensation. Their image of travel agents has been badly damaged by a series of incidents for which many disclaim any responsibility. 
No travel agent could be expected to claim responsibility for principal carriers who suddenly terminate sea cruises because of the lack of bunkering oil, for the collapse of a coach tour operator such as Centralia or for any cut price operator who goes broke or scales down his promised service. In the mind of the public, once again why should they? Do they not have a direct conflict of interest? While claiming to be satisfying the traveller they often hold formal agreements to act on behalf of certain shipping and airline companies and charter and package tour operators. Is it any wonder that disappointed or critical travellers see travel agents as holiday brokers who represent travel companies and are interested only in their commission? 
Those comments lead me to remark on Part XI of this Bill, which is another important area and relates solely to the establishment and maintenance of the travel agents fidelity fund. The purpose of the fund is to compensate travellers for financial losses suffered because of the activities of travel agents. The fund, which will be administered by the Board, is seen as the ultimate protection that can be afforded the interests of agents' clients. The resources of the fund will initially be raised by using deposits contributed by licensed travel agents. It is important to draw a line between where the carrier is responsible for default and where the agent is responsible for the default. This has been recognised and only certain types of financial losses will be eligible for compensation from the fidelity fund. The various categories are covered in clause 91. For each category the loss sustained must be related to failure on the part of an agent properly to discharge his obligations to a client. Compensation will not be payable unless it can be shown that a travel agent actually failed in his obligations under the proposed Act and that the licence of a travel agent was subsequently suspended, revoked, cancelled or expired and not reviewed. 
Protection for the traveller is quite detailed in this Bill. But travel agents are entitled to ask what this Bill will do for them. Certainly their rights to operate are protected in that in Part IX they are allowed the right of appeal to a tribunal should their application to the registrar be not approved, but what redress do they have against travel operators who are not agents? Certainly genuine and fair travel agents will benefit due to the increased business that will come their way with the falling out of the shady operator. The effectiveness of the screening out of the sideline operator can be seen when it is realised that under the New South Wales legislation, which requires registration, many people who were formerly travel agents as a sideline to their regular businesses have decided not to seek licences because of the strict requirements under the State Act. 
However, despite these great advantages travel agents still complain that they must be accredited by the main air, sea and road carriers. This means the lodging of substantial deposits and the achieving of minimum turnover targets which cannot be reached except by longstanding or large travel agent businesses. They claim that this Bill, by demanding scrutiny leading to registration and licensing, should be sufficient for them to act on behalf of the carriers. I agree with this and I am sure that the Minister does also, but this Bill does not provide for that situation. It is imperative therefore that the Trade Practices Act actively copes with the situation and that all agents are free to act as agents on behalf of the carriers without backing arrangements. I ask the Minister to discuss this matter with the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  and to advise the travel industry accordingly so that each travel agent and the industry collectively knows just where they stand and that any restrictions within the industry are essentially demonstrated to be in the public interest. 
It should be realised that the travel agent is the meat in the sandwich. He serves 2 masters- the carrier from whom he is rewarded by a commission and the customer to whom he provides service and from whom he obtains the business. Bonding essentially protects the interest of carriers and not travellers. This Bill is designed to protect the traveller. However it should be recognised that this Bill does indirectly protect the carrier by only registering acceptable travel agents and bonding should therefore become unnecessary. The question of fixed price arrangements remains.  Mr Russell  of the Australian Federation of Travel Agents in a letter in the  Australian Financial Review  on 25 February this year said: 
The prices that principals (in this case the airlines) choose to agree upon or decide upon for their products to be sold through travel agencies was completely beyond the control of their membership. 
The AFTA is concerned that the advertising of discounted fares by travel agents was a breach of Australian law. This warning was issued by the Department of Civil Aviation. This is difficult to rationalise in view of the IATA interpretation. 
Since that date the quandary in which the travel industry finds itself has increased following the ruling by the Trade Practices Commission that it was anti-competitive for the industry body, that is AFTA, to impose a code of ethics and to recommend charges relating to deposits on tours, bookings and other administrative work. On the other hand the Department of Transport argues that regulations are required for the public benefit to control air fares and that the advertising of discounts on air fares is against the spirit of fare regulation. The Trade Practices Act applies to private regulatory groups but not to government controlled restrictions imposed in the public interest and the Travel Agents Bill could well resolve the confusion when the Board imposes its regulations. 
I have no comments on the Travel Agents (Deposits and Levies) Bill other than to say that the Bill is necessary to ensure the validity of the deposits and levies provisions of the Travel Agents Bill with regard to the fidelity fund, otherwise any contribution sought from licensed travel agents could be regarded as a tax within the meaning of section 55 of the Constitution. Tourism is being expanded under this Government. Two measures, for example, taken towards the end of last year indicate how this is being done. The first was the expansion of the Australian Tourist Commission to promote and encourage travel within Australia as well as visits by overseas people. Secondly the Commonwealth Development Bank may now lend to promote tourism. Australians are turning to cheaper overseas holidays. Short holidays overseas increased in 1973 by 23 per cent and foreigners visiting us increased by 10 per cent. This will mean a greater emphasis on the travel agent. The Committee for Economic Development of Australia in its report released on 30 December 1974 said that there have been unethical operators in the industry whose practices have been aided by naive customers. 
This Bill, to regulate the operations of travel agents, could not come earlier. Successive Federal Ministers for Tourism- going back to  Senator Reg  Wright in March of 197 1 -have claimed they were planning, studying, drafting or on the verge of implementing legislation to control the travel industry. And yet here we are 4te years later with the legislation just before us. It is no wonder that AFTA's Vice  President, Mr Case  Muskens, severely criticised the delays and said: 
There must be a registration and bonding scheme and the sooner the better. 
I believe this legislation will result in greater protection for the travel customer and a higher degree of professionalism in the travel industry. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Can the Treasurer say in what circumstance capital assets such as jewellery must be valued for taxation purposes? 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
What financial assistance by way of (a) grants, repayable or non-repayable, (b) loans at varying rates of interest, (c) subsidies and (d) matching grants are available through the Department to non-government bodies or individuals. 
How is this assistance advertised or made available to interested persons or bodies. 
Will the information be collated, together with similar information from other Departments, and issued in booklet form along the lines of the booklet issued by the Department of Urban and Regional Development as a guide to financial assistance from the Australian Government to local government. 
