I feel humble and privileged in having the opportunity to speak to the Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General. I feel humble because this House is part of our parliamentary institutions and system of constitutional government with foundations going back more than 1000 years. I feel privileged because I stand here having been elected to represent over 100 000 people of the electorate of Evans, an inner western suburb electorate of Sydney which contains a crosssection of the Australian people and therefore represents the aspirations and hopes of the Australian people as a whole. 
At this time I would like to extend my congratulations to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to the  Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees upon your and their election to these high offices in this House. It is a pleasure to see that the  Speaker  has restored many of the traditions of his great and noble office. Tradition, as has been mentioned so often this evening, is an important part of our civilisation and way of life because it means a transmitting of ideas, customs and truths from generation to generation that are so important to our peaceful and historic development. It has been stated before that those who do not look to history repeat it, and in that context I say that tradition assists us in averting the errors of previous generations. 
I believe that the less our system of government, based on constitutional monarchy, is tampered with the better. Parliamentary institutions do not require to be changed or rearranged because they are institutions based upon truths and principles which remain constant and unchanged with the passing of time. Our parliamentary system of government has, through the process of trial and error over many generations, produced a form of government which I venture to say- in fact I am proud to proclaim- is the most stable and protective of our freedoms yet devised. Might I add that the opening of each day's proceedings of this House by prayer is, I believe, a recognition by us of the essential part that the adherence to divine principles has played in the success and strengthening of our institutions. Those noisy elements in our midst who would agitate for a sweeping away of our traditions do not represent and articulate the real feeling and aspirations of the Australian people. Whilst I am privileged to remain a member of this House and a servant of the electorate of Evans I shall do all within my power to maintain and preserve our system from change, no matter from what quarter, and no matter whether through overt or covert means. I shall do all within my power to warn against those who would tamper with our system for some cheap political advantage. 
The people of this nation know that our system of government with a monarch as head of state, divorced from the intrigues of party politics, with a federal parliament consisting of 2 Houses each of equal importance and with States each possessing a parliament sovereign in its powers and responsibilities, truly represents and protects their aspirations and hopes. They know that we have a system of courts based upon principles of British justice, independent of political control and influence, which will always act to ensure that the system operates properly and effectively. Centralisation of power is the pathway to demagoguery and totalitarianism and the people of this nation will have no part of it. Australians are known for their independent fighting spirit, which always arouses them when their freedoms are threatened. 
Over the years Australia has received hundreds of thousands of migrants, in the main from 
Britain and Europe, the cradle of our civilisation. Many of these people, I am privileged to say, have settled in the electorate which I represent. Large numbers of them have migrated from countries that have few, if any, freedoms. They have come here because they want to start a new life for themselves and their families in a land well away from the haunting spectre of Marxist socialism, no matter under what label it may masquerade. These people, like Australians as a whole, do not want the sterile restrictions of state socialism. They do not want more government; they want less. They want a system of genuine free enterprise under which initiative and hard work are rewarded and the full potential of Australia and of its people can be utilised. They want the burdens of government lifted from their shoulders. They do not want intrusion into their private lives. They want less interference by Big Brother. They want, and we want, a moratorium on Big Brother's power and a reversal of that power. 
I am pleased and honoured that I am a supporter of a government committed to carrying out the wishes of the overwhelming majority of Australia's people, both old and new. We are embarking on a program based on the principles I have just enunciated- a program that respects freedom of the individual, freedom of religion and expression, freedom to work and to enjoy the fruits of that work, freedom from the totalitarian control of all-pervading power of the allpowerful state. 
As  His Excellency  outlined in his speech, the Government is implementing a foreign affairs and defence policy aimed at securing our continued enjoyment of our hard-earned freedom. Our foreign policy must be built on firm foundations. This country is best served by building alliances with proven and trusted allies, with friends like the United Kingdom and the United States of America. It is ill-served by building dubious friendships with pro-communist dictatorships posing as representatives of the socalled Third World. The Government, in its defence policy and indeed in the major steps which it has already taken to upgrade Australia's defence capability, has shown a clear recognition of the vital need for strong preparedness in the face of aggression by the Marxist anti-freedom forces in so many parts of the world. Furthermore, the Government has demonstrated its recognition that Australia cannot risk stagnation in its defence capability. It cannot even assume that there is no short term threat in our region and it cannot afford to ignore our traditional defence alliances and the obligation which those alliances place on us. The opening of Cockburn Sound to the naval forces of our allies is, of course, most significant. As well as maintaining our traditional alliances I venture to suggest that there is room for many foreign and defence policy initiatives in the southern hemisphere- initiatives designed not only to strengthen our national security but also to preserve the security of our vital trade routes. 
Surely no one can doubt that the basic cause of disruption in the world at this time is the clash of ideologies between the forces of international communism and those which respect freedom of the individual and the attempt of the forces of world socialism to inflict by force their ideology on the entire world. Never before has freedom been so threatened as it is today. Never before have so many flames of freedom been extinguished by the scourge of atheistic Marxism and the misery that follows. Let us make no mistake: Marxism can only prosper by the use of the gun and dependence on concentration camps or asylums for those deemed a threat to the state. It is a system in which people are merely cogs in a gigantic totalitarian machine. 
Surely the time has come when we must say: 'So far and no further'. Surely the time has been reached when we must hold a solid line and take a firm stand against appeasement. Where will these forces of totalitarianism strike next? Last year South Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia fell. In the first weeks of 1976 Angola has fallen despite the desperate but unheeded pleas of those in that unhappy country who called to the West for assistance. Where are the so-called democrats, those who took to the streets protesting about our assistance to the South Vietnamese? Why are they so silent about Cuban and Soviet involvement in Angola? Why do they maintain such double standards? What, in fact, are their real motives? The crossroads have been reached and the choice is very clear. It is a choice between freedom of the individual and of expression, and control by the state which directs our thinking. It is a choice between a system which rewards initiative and thrift, and one that treats those qualities as crimes against the state. It is a choice between Western civilisation and the uplifting principles it espouses, and the forces of revolutionary Marxism based upon principles of hatred. It is a simple choice- freedom or socialism. 
The problems facing my constituents are common throughout Australia: The care and attention of the aged; the handicapped and the under privileged; a reduction and review of crippling taxes; a reduction of inflation; a return to full employment; a transfer of emphasis from the public to the private sector; the opportunity to own a home; a return to a society based upon freedom in all respects, not a socialist welfare state. The list is endless.  His  Excellency's Speech quite clearly recognises the problems facing Australia today. Quite clearly the Government has recognised the solutions. They will not come easily. The remedies may be a little strong to take but the Government's paths and objectives are clear, concise and certain. It has taken a path to provide all Australians with the opportunity to advance on their merit. It is a path to reduce inflation and unemployment and to put the economy in order. It is a path of security and freedom for all, one that will lead to greater opportunity for all. It is a path that removes the dreaded threat of socialism from the Australian way of life. It is designed so that our people, today's and future generations, can live in freedom where the individual works and progresses on merit and not by handouts. Thus it is a path to a greater Australia. 
I extend my sincere and heartfelt thanks to the electors of Evans for choosing me to represent them in this place. For the time that I am privileged to sit in this House I will always have uppermost in my mind that my privileged and honoured place here is as a representative of the people of Evans. To take a famous quotation somewhat out of context, this is a government of the people and for the people. At this stage I thank all honourable members for extending to me the courtesy of allowing me to present my maiden speech in silence, a courtesy I doubt will oft b.e repeated. 
Does the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs know of any person or organisation giving advice to illegal immigrants not to come forward and seek permanent resident status during the current amnesty as this would lead to deportation? If he does will he advise the House who is responsible and the purpose which anyone could have for giving such dastardly advice? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. He will be aware of numerous newspaper reports today concerning the alleged safety of a  Mr Fischer,  an Australian citizen currently in Singapore. Has a request for police protection come to the notice of the AttorneyGeneral from a  Mr Fischer  or from any person alleged to be involved in the Iraqi donation scandal? Considering the serious nature of the investigations, will the Attorney-General consider sympathetically requests from any person alleged to be involved who is concerned for his safety, so that the investigation can be completed with all witnesses being able to give their evidence? 
I feel it is unique that I can follow the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in a debate and say that I agree with everything that he has said. I have been doing some research and as a new member, not knowing too much about the siting of the new and permanent parliament house, I found that the proposal originated back in 1965 when the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, initiated a joint committee to inquire into certain aspects of a new and permanent parliament house. In 1927 a temporary structure- this structure was put up. There were 6 alterations. They occurred in 1947, 1958, 1964, 1970, 1972 and 1973. Here we are 49 years later still in temporary premises. I agree with the honourable member for Corio that it is nice as a new member to come into this building and find the difficulties associated with being part of the largest business in Australia- that of government. I refer to the inadequacies of office space. The honourable member referred to the staffing position. It was frightening to me to find a broom cupboard converted into a member's office. I was fortunate that it was not my office. Yet we are expected as members of this Parliament, irrespective of the side of the House on which we sit, to perform our duties under those conditions. I have noted that the National Capital Development Commission prepared a report in May 1973 and at that stage it was foreshadowed that the new and permanent parliament house, once a site had been settled on- that is the other problem; where to put it- would cost $75m. I would suggest to honourable members that today we would be looking at no less than $150m and even to construct the first stage we would be looking to June 1977 as a commencement date and at 1979 as the date for the completion of the first stage. Subsequent to that time the NCDC, in August 1974, released a report. I would like to quote from that report of Commissioner A. J. Powell. It reads: 
The Commission has for several years been expressing concern at the lack of a decision by the Parliament on a site for the Permanent House. It has been faced with a steadily growing need to provide additional accommodation in the provisional building for the numerous activities associated with the functioning of Parliament, and each year the task becomes more difficult and more costly. The existing House is spatially inadequate, functionally inefficient, and mechanically obsolete. The scope for further extensions to the present building is virtually exhausted. 
If there is a considerable increase in the next 15 years in the membership of this House, to say nothing of staff, to say nothing of radio, television and committee rooms, to say nothing of the dining room and the staff associated with the full administration of the national Parliament, to say nothing of the Library and the research facilities, I suggest with respect that we will be using skyhooks. We would not have to worry about broom cupboards or offices. 
Out of the report in August 1974 came the rather startling fact that the construction period was 15 years and cost was not even a factor. We are looking at an unknown cost as the honourable member for Corio stated. We are looking at the possibility of an unknown figure. If we looked at a structure of this magnitude in 15 years' time we could be looking at a cost of $ 1,000m. We could borrow that sum. The proposed committee will undertake research and will completely review the March 1970 report to this House by the Joint Committee on a New and Permanent Parliament House. I think it is fair to assume that if this Committee is to be functional it must at the outset go into its initial committee meeting with the belief that its decisions and recommendations will be received well in this place and that this House will consider improving working conditions for the benefit of us all. 
I suggest that if some members of the Australian public who say that we have it easy could see the conditions we have to work in they perhaps would give us a little more support. I feel, and I am sure that the Committee will feel in its deliberations, that cost will be the deciding factor and not the conditions or the objective of getting a more suitable place in which to work. This is our second home. I did not think I would find a second home with such conditions but it is the second home of each and every one of us. This committee will be charged with the responsibility of ensuring that all honourable members and honourable senators from both sides and all employees attached to this place at some stage in the not too distant future have reasonable conditions. We do not seek luxurious working conditions; we seek reasonable conditions. I am pleased to support the motion. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health who will know of a report in today's  Australian  concerning the Liverpool Women's Clinic in New South Wales. How much money was granted to the Liverpool Women's Clinic by the former Labor Government? Was any funding granted to this clinic for the payment of wages to doctors or others to carry out abortions? Is this or are other centres in New South Wales to continue receiving Commonwealth Government grants if such grants are used either directly or indirectly to finance abortions? 
In directing my question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs I preface it by complimenting him on the assistance I have had from him and his Department in processing applications for immigration to Australia from Lebanese nationals. Will the Minister advise how many applications for migration to Australia from Lebanese residents were approved by the previous Government and then cancelled due to the economic and unemployment crises caused by Labor's bungling and mismanagement? How many applications for migration to Australia from Lebanese nationals were refused by the previous Government? 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister say whether he intends to take part in the forthcoming elections in New South Wales? 
I should like to preface my question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, by saying that it is nice to see the Opposition so keen about New South Wales. 
-The House will recall vividly these words: 
Many of the fundamental challenges to be met by the new Labor Government are in the field of law reform. Labor has evolved a practical program to ensure our basic civil rights and freedoms- to reshape our laws to meet the needs and aspirations of the seventies. 
I am pleased to rise in support of the motion to establish a public expenditure committee. The establishment of this committee will ensure the orderly supervision of this nation's affairs in this House- and what better place should there be for the orderly supervision and the conduct of the affairs of this nation? A few moments ago a quorum was called because there was one member of the Opposition present in the chamber. Orderly conduct in the House is just as important as the establishment of committees.  (Quorum formed)  Before I was interrupted by the forming of another quorum for which the Opposition so generously called, I was saying that the expenditure committee will have the opportunity to supervise expenditure. Education is a real issue of expenditure about which this Government is concerned. As a consequence once this committee is established it will have the opportunity to examine in total education funding. It is regrettable that today we have to leave those teachers and others in Kings Hall and be called because members of the Opposition would stop us from presenting our education policy to those people. 
-I do.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  who has just resumed his seat stated quite clearly that I misled the House inasmuch as I was the campaign director- 
Chair for the opportunity to make a personal explanation. It is customary in this House for a personal explanation to be made after the person who has the call has finished his speech. As the personal explanation related to a speech which had just been made by the honourable member for Sydney I asked the honourable member for Griffith to resume his seat and called the honourable member for Evans to make a personal explanation. In reply to the point of order of the honourable member for Bonython, that is the position at the moment. I call the honourable member for Evans on a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the honourable member for Sydney has just claimed that I was the campaign director for Alwyn Innes, the Liberal candidate for Ashfield, and Jim Reid, the Liberal candidate for Drummoyne. Further he stated that I had misled the House. That was a vicious attack on me and was incorrect. The campaign directors for Jim Reid in Drummoyne and Alwyn Innes in Ashfield were respectively  Mr John  Hill in Drummoyne and  Mr David  Patton in Ashfield. 
The Liberal and National Country Party accepts the development of private courier services and will not seek to curtail them. Such services meet a growing community demand albeit at great cost and also provide competition for the Post Office. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of statements by the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  that he would be unable to fulfil his election promises because of the Commonwealth's economic measures? Is there any truth in these statements? 
-This evening I want to speak on a matter that is rarely raised in this House. It is not a matter which concerns the political philosophy of either side of the House. I am sure that honourable members on both sides of the House would support the matter I am about to raise. It is a matter of religious freedom. On 31 March 1974  Mr Georgi  Vins, a Soviet Baptist leader, was arrested by the Soviet authorities. He was charged under 3 articles of the Soviet constitution, namely articles 138 ( 1 1), 1 87 ( 1 ) and 209 ( 1 ). No other details were available except that in January 1976 he was tried by a Soviet court and was convicted. Members of his family were not permitted to enter the court room. For that matter neither was anyone else except those who had special passes to get them into the court room. As I have said, he was convicted. He was sentenced to 5 years imprisonment and S years deportation, and his property was confiscated. And what was he charged with? He was charged with speaking about Christianity. He was not charged with speaking about religion of one form or another. He was speaking about Christianity. The Soviet Union today would stand before the world in the United Nations and would say, as the  Chairman  of the Council for Religious Affairs said in  Izvestia  on 30 January 1976: 
We can claim with full justification that our legislation on religious cults comes out as the most humane and democratic in the world. 
What a wonderful freedom it is when governments have to legislate for religious freedom. That is the Soviet Union today, which would take a Christian leader from his wife and family because he dared to take the Bible, the scripture in his hand, and go into the Soviet Union and read from it. 
This coming Sunday a number of Christians of various denominations will attempt to present a petition with in excess of 40 000 signatures to the Soviet Embassy in Canberra. I hope that all honourable members would join with me in asking that someone have the courtesy to accept that petition. In January 1976, when the petition with 40 000 signatures was presented to the Soviet Embassy, it was refused and put on the doorstep and left in the rain. That was not an insult to the delegation that attempted to present the petition; it was an insult to the 40 000 Christians in this country who took the time and trouble to put their names to the paper. There is a volume of the sacred law, the  Holy Bible,  within and about this House. Most honourable members would have one. St Mark, chapter 16, verse 15, states: 
And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. 
I stand here this evening as an honourable member asking for support for the right of every Christian to speak in freedom. The Soviet Union has but one thought in mind- to stop freedom. Freedom in religion is but one small part of it. Georgi Vins has been taken away from his wife and children for 10 years. The Soviet authorities in this country and throughout the world have refused to accept petitions containing over 350 000 signatures. They stand condemned in this House; they stand condemned throughout the world. There is no place for communism in Christianity and there is no place for Christianity in communism. 
-The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  finished his verbiage by saying that the Government is presiding over despair. At the outset, I agree with him; it is despair at the 3 years of government that were served up to us by the Administration of which he was part The amendment moved this evening by the caretaker Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  begins by stating: 
The House condemns the Budget because- 
I will not go into the 'because', but I think there is a song that goes: 'We have heard it over and over and over again'. We heard it in the time leading up to 1972 - 
The honourable member cannot sing over there. He can do a lot of talking. We heard that phrase in 1972. On 2 December of that year the destruction that the policies of the Labor Party have caused started in Australia. I rise to support the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I take the opportunity of congratulating him on giving the Australian people the first real chance in 3 years to see economic stability return to our great nation. During the past 3 years the former Labor Government produced 3 Treasurers, two of whom were sacked. One of these Treasurers did not even get to the barrier. That was the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  They gave us three of the most ill-conceived, anti-business, highly inflationary Budget disasters that this country has ever seen. The honourable member for Batman called the Liberal Government the jackboots of the business world. At least when we place our incentives in the right direction- the direction of the business community which employs 75 per cent of the work force- the unemployment created by honourable members opposite will be reduced. Members of the former Labor Government are the jackboots of the trade union movement and they are the ones who put such great emphasis on the public sector that it resulted in the almost total destruction of the private sector. 
I am sorry, I did not realise I was in school. I apologise to the honourable member. Fortunately the Australian people and free enterprise got a reprieve from the insanity of the former Administration. On 13 December last year they chucked the Labor Party well and truly out of office, and elected a Liberal-National Country Party Government with a mandate to get Australia back on to sound economic ground and to run the country as managers and not as amateurs. The economic measures announced by the Treasurer on 20 May this year, together with the steps taken in this Budget, will see a return to economic stability and a much needed growth in the private sector, resulting, I might add for the benefit of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who is trying to interject, in more job opportunities and thus a reduction in unemployment. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

Let me in simple terms explain the main strategy of the Budget to honourable members opposite who are trying to interject. They might be interested in it. Firstly, it is designed to eradicate the terminal disease of inflation. Honourable members opposite might accept that. Secondly, it is designed to reduce government or public sector spending and give incentives to private enterprise to expand and to employ more people. Thirdly, it is designed to reduce the Government tax bite so as to strengthen company profitability, boost business confidence and reinforce wage restraint. Fourthly, the strategy of the Budget is designed to reduce the deficit and thus moderate the increase in the money supply. Finally, it is designed to continue the Government's program and election commitment of social reform. 
I now turn to a most important aspect of that strategy- the reduction in the rate of inflation. If honourable gentlemen opposite listen they may learn something, although I do not guarantee that they will. Inflation is a disease that continued to breed and increase under Labor's socialist philosophy. The Opposition believed when it was in government, as it does now, that profit and free enterprise are evil words. It forgets that the revenues raised by governments from direct and indirect taxes in the private sector give governments the money needed to finance education, social welfare, health, roads, sewerage and so on. That is where the revenue comes from. It is not manufactured, although the Opposition with its multiplicity of Treasurers seemed to think that it was a question of turning the printing presses. I think it was called pump priming. Maybe after this evening's effort by the caretaker Leader of the Opposition we could expect to see that happen again if the Labor Party were returned to office. What I have just said says nothing of the job opportunities that are created by private enterprise. 
I am not a oncer. The honourable member for Wills who interjects will find that I am a lifer. I assure him of that. Let me give a simple comparative example of what happened to the rate of inflation under Labor compared with what happened under the last LiberalCountry Party Government. 
My colleague says that it cannot be compared. Let me take the example of a Holden Kingswood sedan, the Australian car, the worker's car-at least it was until Labor came to office. At 31 December 1969 the Australian worker's car could be bought for $2,488. Then 3 years later, on 3 1 December 1972, it cost $2,985. Under the Liberal-Country Party Government, in 3 years there was an increase of 20 per cent in the price of the Holden Kingswood sedan. Let us now look at what happened under 3 years of Labor. At 31 December 1975 that same vehicle cost $4,573, a staggering increase of 53 per cent under Labor's dynamic, tremendous economic management, What has happened to the price of petrol that we put into the Australian worker's car? Using the average Adelaide price, the price of a gallon of super grade petrol cost 42c in December 1969 and 48.1c in December 1972, an increase of 1316 per cent. In December 1975 a gallon of super grade petrol cost 69.5 c, an increase of over 44 per cent. 
I will repeat it for my colleague. In December 1975 a gallon of super grade petrol cost 69.5c, an increase of 44 per cent. 
-The honourable member for Wills continues to interject. He probably drives a Mercedes and does not care about the price of petrol, but the Australian people do. When Labor took office in December 1972 the annual rate of inflation was 416 per cent, yet in the following years we saw staggering rates of inflation of 13.23 per cent in 1973, 16.25 per cent in 1974 and- wait for it- 14.05 per cent in 1975 when Labor went out of office. It is unbelievable but it is true. The money managers! These money managers are managers of disaster. We have had to sit here tonight and listen to the agonising whingeing and whining from the Opposition about the shortcomings and faults in this Government's Budget. I say to honourable members opposite: 'You had your chance, and you muffed it'. Whom does inflation hurt? It hurts those on fixed incomes. 
As my colleague says, it hurts all of us. As he will hear, it hurts more than just members of this House. It hurts superannuitants, pensioners, the retired, those fortunate enough to have some savings in the bank, the charities, the poor and the under-privileged. 
It is a wonder the honourable member has a mother-in-law. It is a wonder he has not been disowned. It hurts the people about whom the Opposition purports to be concerned. 
This Budget is designed to reduce inflation and to give help to those groups of people and enterprise which need it most. In simple terms, it is designed to help all Australians. We have heard honourable members opposite yahooing and making a lot of noise about unemployment. Well they might. They were the architects of the greatest unemployment this country has known since the Depression. They were the executioners, the prophets of doom. Now they show concern. What utter hypocrisy. They have not yet learnt that inflation and unemployment go hand in hand. When the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was Treasurer he said he understood. I am sorry that the honourable member for Wills is leaving the chamber. I thought he might have been concerned. I assure him he can read it in  Hansard  tomorrow. When the honourable member for Oxley was Treasurer he said he understood what inflation was all about. Let me quote from his Budget Speech of 19 August 1975: 
Our present level of unemployment is too high. If we fail to control inflation unemployment will get worse. 
He failed, and dismally.  (Quorum formed)  I thank my colleague the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  for calling the quorum. I note that only two of his colleagues were present when he did so. I realise how important my speech is to the people of Australia. I note the number of my colleagues on the Government side. Inflation, unemployment and the things that concern the people of this country are insufficient to attract the attention of more than a handful of members  of  the Opposition. We on this side of the House are concerned, as the 1976-77 Budget shows. When I was interrupted I was quoting from the speech of the honourable member for Oxley when he was Treasurer last year. I again quote from that speech: 
Today, it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
The honourable member for Oxley is to be congratulated for having at least some understanding of the problem of inflation and its effect on unemployment and the living standard.  His  closing remarks in delivering the 1975-76 Budget Speech were: 
If inflation is to be curbed - 
Remember these words: 
If inflation is to be curbed there are no soft options- only a choice between more or less difficult ones. 
That was said by the former Treasurer, the honorourable member for Oxley. He continued: 
For our part, our hope is that with a community appreciation of the need for restraint, we can make a real start on getting inflation under control and further raising living standards for everybody. 
They are not the words of Government members today; they are the words of the Government of yesterday. Yet honourable members opposite would stand in this House tonight and condemn the Budget that has been presented. The ideals which were incorporated in the speech of the then Treasurer are incorporated in this document. We are concerned about inflation, and we are concerned about unemployment. 
For our part, this Budget shows restraint. It is designed to reduce inflation to less than double figures, thus creating job opportunities. This Government has shown restraint in the Budget by increasing outlays by only 1 1.3 per cent when compared with the outlays for the previous year. We had the sordid story of increased outlays of 22 per cent and over 46 per cent in 1974. Notwithstanding the relatively small increase in this year's Budget, it has given to the private sector incentives to invest, to expand and to employ as well as to retain reasonable profits. It places emphasis on those areas of social justice that are the most needy. It gives real increase in dollar terms in such priority areas as defence, which is up by 17.6 per cent, education, which is up by 15.3 per cent, and social security and welfare, which is up by 23.5 per cent. So the list goes on. We talk about local government. There is a $140m increase, an increase of 75 per cent when compared with the figure for 1975-76, for local government. As far as money for the States is concerned, is not $3, 176m an increase of 21 per cent on the figure for last year? I am sure that members of the Opposition are not so poor in their arithmetic as to make the mistakes that they made this evening. I would not suggest that they were stating untruths, because that would be unparliamentary. However, I suggest that they do their arithmetic all over again. 
These increases in expenditure do not require any additional burden on the taxpayer for funding; quite the contrary. For the first time for many years there is no increase in either direct or indirect taxes. Members of the Opposition must have been quite shattered last Tuesday evening- I am quite sure they still have not recovered- when they realised that all their verbal garbage during recent months, particularly during the last election campaign, about cuts that the Liberals would make in pensions, education and social welfare-  (Quorum formed).  What a sham it is when the Opposition consistently calls quorums and only one, two or three of its members come into the chamber. Honourable members opposite do not even know the meaning of free speech. As I was saying before I was interrupted, the Opposition has not recovered yet from the stories it was telling about the cuts that would come in the Liberal Budget. Its diabolical stories concerning indirect tax increases which would come in this Budget and which would burden the public became so convincing that the Opposition almost had me believing them. It is a shattered and demoralised Opposition which sits behind a leader who is only wanning a seat for the leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke.  It has no answer to this Government's Budget and this Government's economic strategy. The pathetic attempt by the Leader of the Opposition tonight - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  the former Minister for Shipping and Transport, who has just resumed his seat stands here indicted and condemned in the eyes of the Australian public as the Jeremiah, the prophet of doom, the person who presided over the destruction of the Australian shipbuilding industry. He has the audacity to stand here today and suggest that this Government is destroying the Australian shipbuilding industry. This is garbage! The speech the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  also was garbage! The verbiage that has come forth here today from the members opposite is a self condemnation which I never thought I would here in this House. I did not believe it when I saw this matter listed on the notice paper today as a matter of public importance. It refers to the supposed destruction by this Government's policy of the Australian shipbuilding industry. I did not think the Opposition would have the audacity and the cheek to come before the Australian people and condemn itself. So be it. 
Let me read a few words from the former Minister for Police and Customs, the former member for Canberra who said at page 2553  of Hansard  of 21 May 1975: 
It is the Government's objective to provide assistance which will assure the continuing development of a rationalised and efficient shipbuilding industry in Australia. 
The Government at that time was introducing the Ship Bounty Bill of 1975. The Government complimented itself on the extent of that policy. If we look a little further to 2 June 1975 we find at page 3 179 of  Hansard  the former member for Bowman said: 
Let me say that in the provisions of the legislation relating to the phasing out of the bounty the encouragement is there in very clear terms for the shipbuilding industry over a period to become a viable industry. 
The very words that were expressed in 1975 were: 'Well, here is the Australian shipbuilding industry. It is at your feet. We have given you a policy. It is a good policy. ' It was the policy of the former Minister for Shipping and Transport. The Government gave the Australian shipbuilding industry time. 
I think I should quote some more words. The former honourable member for Canberra said at page 3258 of  Hansard  of 3 June 1975: 
The subsidy that was paid to that industry in 1972-73 amounted to about $30m. There are 3,000 men employed in the shipbuilding industry. 
That means that the Australian taxpayers meet the wages bill of the Australian shipbuilding industry. 
Further, it is stated on that same page: 
Indeed, the shipbuilding industry was inefficient. 
There can be little doubt about the truth of that statement. So was said that the Australian Government pays nearly half of cost of construction of an Australian ship. At the top level, the subsidy is 40 per cent. The Australian taxpayers, through the Government, contribute that percentage. Let me measure that in terms of freight component that Australians pay on goods carried around the Australian coast. I have seen a figure- I draw on my memory- of approximately $9m quoted for the freight component. That is the unnecessarily high price paid for freight by Australians. Do not think that the Australian shipbuilding industry is not looked after because it is. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I have in front of me sufficient documents to condemn the Opposition, the former Minister and those who have spoken today for the next 2 hours. I have but 10 minutes. They stand here today- again I use the wordswith the audacity to suggest the Liberal-Country Party Government is going to close the Australian shipbuilding industry. Let me give an example of what the Opposition did to help the Australian shipbuilding industry when it was in office. In the  Australian  of 19 December 1974 there were headlines: 'PM rejects higher tariffs as job-saver.' Was the Government of that time concerned about tariffs? What is the effect of tariffs on the Australian shipbuilding industry? No one has bothered to mention that subject. The Prime Minister was not concerned at all. 
The current Leader of the Oppositionthe temporary one. They were so concerned in those days, and now today we have the suggestion that they want to see this Government do something. This Government has done just that. It has not announced a policy; it is just continuing the present policy until the Industries Assistance Commission reference is brought back. As honourable gentlemen have heard here today, this is one of the quickest references the LAC has been given. That is the importance that this Government places on the Australian shipbuilding industry. We do believe in a viable and continuing Australian shipbuilding industry. But at what price? 
We have heard a great deal about labour disputes. The honourable member for Newcastle says that under his administration industrial disputes decreased. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  seemed to know a lot about it. Let me give statistics of the labour disputes in the Whyalla shipbuilding yard under the Labor 
Government. In 1972, the last year of office of the former Liberal-Country Party Government, there was a loss of 3.7 per cent of working days available. In 1973, the first year under the Labor Government, that figure increased to 6.71 per cent. In 1974 it was 7.88 per cent. In 1975, the year that the policy that gave such a tremendous boost to the industry was brought down, the one that is being condemned now, it rose to 12.43 per cent in the Whyalla shipyards. It is an absolute disgrace. 
The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  the honourable member for Newcastle and the honourable member for Port Adelaide say that the Opposition did a tremendous job when it was in office. It surely did a tremendous job! The Opposition got disputes to an all-time high. We have heard much about what the Opposition did with its policy. Let us not forget that the former Liberal-Country Party Government had a policy which did not take effect because of the change of Government in 1972. I draw honourable members attention to the subsidy arrangement that we had. It was the intention of the Liberal-Country Party in those days to give the shipbuilding industry a 45 per cent subsidy until 31 December 1975. The honourable member for Newcastle, the former Minister, the prophet of doom, changed that. He said: 'No, the industry does not need 45 per cent until 31 December. Let us give it to them until 31 December 1974. Then let us reduce it to 37  Vi  per cent in 1975. We will then scale it down to 33 per cent, 3 1 per cent, 29 per cent and 27 per cent. ' He forgot, of course, that the 45 per cent the LiberalCountry Party offered and the 35 per cent we offered until 31 December 1978 would have given the industry a rather better chance. But no, the Opposition thought it would save a little bit of money. Honourable members must be astounded when they hear the honourable member for Newcastle say that we know nothing about shipbuilding. I have had the opportunity to visit the shipyards also, and well might the honourable member for Newcastle say he knows a lot about it and that he is concerned. I believe he was employed at the shipyards on 3 separate occasions. He did not leave on his own accord on any of those 3 occasions. Nonetheless he ought to know something about it. 
I could not say that; it would probably be unparliamentary for me to do so and I could not verify it. In the  Newcastle Sun  of 23 March 1976 there was a headline: 'Strikes 'suicide' for dock'. Tomorrow we have another strike. This newspaper is printed in the area that the honourable member represents, Newcastle. Tomorrow we have a strike for 24 hours. Is that suicide? It is not destruction by this Government. Honourable members will want to know that the Australian shipbuilding industry is going to continue. If it is and there is a continuation of the present attitude of the Opposition, the fear of destruction that is generating through the industry at present will become a reality. It is our intention to see that a viable shipbuilding industry is retained. We are concerned for defence. That is why there are going to be patrol boats built here. There is a 6000 tonne heavy lift ship being built here. We are concerned for the Australian ship repair industry. There is no intention of closing the Australian shipbuilding industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the total cost of damage to Commonwealth vehicles and property during the Governor General 's visits to various parts of Australia since 1 3 December 1 975. 
What was the form of damage in each case. 
Who will be paying for the damage in each case. 
What are the names and addresses of the persons responsible for the damage. 
-On the front steps of this Parliament on 1 1 November 1975- 
Honourable members opposite interject that it was a great day. On that day the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the then Leader of the Opposition, stood on the front steps and said: 'Keep up the rage'. A great day! The events of that day have resulted in garbage that has flowed forth in various documents. One of them has come forth under the hand of an A. Crosthwaite of 20/3-5 Church St, Cabramatta and it is entitled 'The Media and  Sir John  Kerr's Statement of 11 November 1975'. This without a shadow of a doubt has been prepared by members of the Opposition to keep that rage going under the guise of public interest. A public meeting has been called- I do not want to advertise it; I doubt whether many people will attend it- for Sydney Town Hall on Monday, 20 September at 8 p.m. 
It will be a good meeting. I know that it will be a good meeting inasmuch as the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  has lent his name and his support to the rage committee. Another who has done so is  Senator James  McClelland. Yet another is  Senator Kerry  Sibraa. A brochure I have before me states: . . . more and more Australians have become worried about the future of our democratic institutions. 
And well they might with the rage that was inspired on 1 1 November by the honourable member for Werriwa. 
The brochure continues: A group of us came together, in spite of our difference- 
A group of us came together, in spite of our difference- 
I emphasise the word 'in spite of our differences'. Cop some of the names! Barbara Murphy- an interesting name to say the least; Franca Arena; Donald Home; Frank Hardy; Joan Evatt; John Ducker- the honourable member for Sydney asked me to read out his name; Bridget Gilling; Bruce Petty. Cop this one- Jack Mundey, the communist, the one who is the friend of the Australian people, the one who stands for democracy. This group is so concerned about democracy that it has sought to call a public meeting to quell the flames of 1 1 November. The document to which I have referred was prepared and printed by Tomato Press- a very significant name. I suggest that it is the rotten tomato Press. It is certainly rotten inasmuch as it would seek to give support to rabble rousers and to those who would like to see democracy destroyed. 
In answer to a question I asked of the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services on 7 September I was advised that $3,618 worth of damage has been done to Commonwealth vehicles in which the Governor-General has been travelling. Who has to pay for that? The Australian taxpayer. Honourable gentlemen opposite collectively would say that they support this type of action. They would support anything that is an attack on the Governor-General. The time has come for the Australian people to make a stand on behalf of democracy and to tell the rabble rousers on the Opposition benches that they do not want any more of it. It is time that the Australian people spoke up and said: 'We do believe in democracy.  Sir John  Kerr was right on 1 1 November and nothing that has been printed or said since that date can disprove it'. 
Let me quote from the document that gives support to the rabble rousers. It reads: ... the media instead mounted a campaign to present Whitlam as a 'whinger' and a dangerous rabble rouser'. 
What better description is there of the Leader of the Opposition on 11 November and subsequently. Any honourable member who would lend his name in support of this function on 20 September, who would lend his support to the publication of this document or who says that the $3,600 worth of damage that has been caused to Commonwealth vehicles is justified stands condemned in this House and stands condemned in the eyes of the Australian people. 
-The 18 September is the 166th anniversary of the founding of the independence of the Republic of Chile. 
Chile has over the past 3 years been the victim of a violent propaganda onslaught throughout the world for having rejected a Marxist regime and for refusing to allow itself to be subverted by the forces of world communism. Only recently, through disruptions and demonstrations in the Senate, this Parliament has had a small sample of the type of campaign being conducted against Chile- not a rational campaign, based on logic and fact, but one of violence and shouting based on the propagation of slogans. 
Although the Australian Government has very sensibly re-established our diplomatic relations with Chile to their normal level by appointing a new ambassador, our trade with that country is being disrupted by the action of communist minorities in certain trade unions, particularly the maritime and waterfront unions which have placed a black ban on all trade with Chile, a black ban I might add which has never been placed on trade with other communist dictatorships. Honourable members opposite would do well to remember that. This action, which is in violation of all principles of free trade, responds apparently to the instructions of Moscow to isolate and attack Chile on all fronts for the crime of having prevented itself from being totally subverted by the forces of international communism. This action is extremely contradictory to the attitudes of these same self-proclaimed supporters of humanitarianism and peace; it is an attack against the people of Chile who are denied the food which Australia can provide by way of wheat; and it is an attack against the Australian rural worker who is denied this market for wheat at a time when rural industry is suffering severe hardships. 
Many Australians are unaware of the reasons that led the Chilean people- a people who throughout the years have become an example of democracy and stability in South America- to finally rid themselves of a Marxist regime that had brought this once happy country to the brink of total disaster. It should well be remembered that Salvador Allende, a man elected to office with only 36 per cent of the popular vote, proceeded, upon his election, on a deliberate program to disrupt, overturn and destroy Chile's traditional institutions and resorted to illegal methods in violation of that country's constitution. On many occasions his actions were declared by the Chilean Supreme Court, a body internationally respected, to have been in total disregard of that constitution. The Marxists, by a campaign to totally disrupt civic life by the constant preaching of class warfare, by instigating physical confrontation, led the Chilean economy to the brink of absolute disaster. Inflation jumped from 30 per cent in 1970 to 180 per cent in 1971, 300 per cent in 1972 and, according to the Allende Government's own figures, to 504 per cent by September 1973. In fact, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank placed the figure at 1000 per cent in 1973. During the Allende regime, thousands - 
The honourable member for Grayndler will be very pleased to know that it has fallen from 1000 per cent to 150 per cent. From a country that was once a food exporter, Chile has become a food importer. The copper industry, the main source of foreign revenue, tottered on the brink of disaster and collapsed. Despite repeated resolutions from the Chilean Congress for Allende to observe the Constitution, this man plunged his country down a Marxist path to chaos and ruin. No wonder the Chilean people, particularly the women, took to the streets to call for the removal of the Marxists. No wonder the armed forces, on the invitation of the Chilean Congress, moved on 1 1 November 1973 to restore order and stability to that country. 
I am not going to stand here as an unquestioning admirer of the present government in Chile, but I do not believe in standing here as a hypocrite. I find it sickening and disgusting that the Opposition, and in particular the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  can heap unbounded praise upon a dictator like  Chairman  Mao and call for ever closer relationships with communist dictators who yet wish to isolate a country like Chile. Just as this Government is reviving the economy of Australia, which was almost destroyed by the Opposition, so the government of Chile is gradually reviving the economy of that country. Just as this Government is winning the battle against inflation, so the government of Chile has lowered the rate of inflation in that country from 1000 per cent to 180 per cent, and the rate is dropping every month. I want people to know the double standards that are held by members on the Opposition benches, and that is obvious from their interjections tonight. I want to ask them why so many on their side of the House are so intent on destroying the country of Chile. 
I really feel honoured. I am a very quiet, humble, unassuming man. I find it hard at times to find words that are appropriate to the occasion. Having been honoured this evening by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  I think that speechless is a good way of describing how I feel. It was my intention this evening to speak about the socialist Left of the Labor Party but that will wait. It will be there tomorrow, the next day and forever more. However, as I have been turned on to another track, let me first dispose of the honourable member for Chifley. 
No, because I am sure it would be unparliamentary to do so. This is a democracy. The institution of the Australian Parliament is held in high esteem throughout the world, as we heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  say tonight, yet members of the Opposition believe such things as leaks. Let us face it; they are experts at leaks. During their 3 years in government there were leaks such as we had never seen before. They were well and truly known as the ' great leaks '. 
Let me turn to another subject. The unemployment of youth in this country is a real problem. The Labor Party created it. The honourable member for Chifley supported his Government's plan to put young people on unemployment benefits. He lent his support in the Caucus room and in this House to that situation.  Hansard  will show that every honourable member opposite was party to the destruction of employment in this country. There is a problem and there will be a problem this Christmas. Let honourable gentlemen opposite stand and suggest that unemployment benefits should be paid to every school leaver the day he or she leaves school. Is that what he suggests? Is that the sociological problem he wants on his conscience? Does he suggest that the day a boy or girl leaves school he or she simply goes to the Commonwealth Employment Service and says: 'Give me $40 a week unemployment benefit"? Do we want to put all the youth of this country onto the dole? Is that what the honourable member for Chifley wants? Does he want them to gather collectively and not to work? Does he not want the youth to have to search out some job during the Christmas holidays. I want to see all our school leavers in jobs. I want to be pan and parcel of seeing the youth employed. That is why I am proud to be a supporter of the Government which will see our youth employed. 
I do not support the handing out of the dole. That is an atrocious word. Nevertheless, the Labor Party brought that word into being. I do not support the handing out of the dole to those who do not have to seek a job. I believe that the youth and the middle aged- those of this country who are of working age- at least have a responsibility to the Australian people to try to find gainful employment. If, having sought positions, they cannot find gainful employment then they should be paid unemployment benefits. Next time the honourable member gets a leak he should make sure and check it. I shall come to the remarks of the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  later this week. 
In closing, I challenge the Opposition. I am prepared to employ one young person of school leaving age in my electorate for  $50  a week. I know businessmen who are prepared to do the same thing. Will the trade unions allow me to do this? Will honourable members opposite stand tonight and join with me in issuing a challenge to the trade union movement to allow me to employ one school leaver during the  7  weeks Christmas break at  $50  a week, irrespective of hours worked and conditions? I challenge honourable members to stand now. Not one honourable member opposite- the honourable member for Chifley, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  the honourable member for Sydney- is prepared to stand, because they do not care about unemployment. They use unemployment as a political tool. 
I ask my question of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer the Minister to a statement he made in the House yesterday that he would bring to the attention of the Australian Broadcasting Commission the desire of the Australian people to view the forthcoming debates between  President  Ford and  Mr Carter  in the United States. I ask: Has the Minister communicated the wishes of this House and of the Australian people to the ABC? If so, has any decision been made as to whether these debates will be telecast? 
-At the outset, in supporting the appropriations for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, I would like to compliment the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on administering a very difficult portfolio in a most - 
The honourable member who interjects says 'too weak'. I think the position is the contrary. The Minister has administered his portfolio in a most admirable manner and in a very strong way indeed. 
Honourable members opposite delight in interjecting at a time when there is something of so-called importance before us. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  who has just resumed his seat said how important immigration is to his electorate and to the Opposition. Yet, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  sitting beside the honourable member for Grayndler interjects. Perhaps he does this because he has no concern, as is the case with the majority of Opposition members, for immigration and its impact on the Australian community. As I was saying before the honourable member for Chifley so rudely interrupted, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is to be complimented, as is his Department, for handling at a most difficult time some very difficult matters. 
Let me correct the honourable member for Grayndler on a couple of points that he raised. Mathematics, for example, seems to be a thing in this Budget debate and more particularly in the Estimates that has been sadly lacking in the Opposition. The honourable member for Grayndler says that the Government has not increased expenditure for the Commissioner for Community Relations. Might I draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that there has been a 50 per cent increase in this expenditure and, indeed, there has been a provision for a 25 per cent staff increase. I suggest that they appear to be increases irrespective of which way we look at the mathematics. 
The honourable member for Grayndler and a large number of the Opposition spokesmen have put some degree of emphasis on the tragic Lebanese situation. He has conceded that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Department have, to a large degree, given sympathetic consideration to the handling of applications from those Lebanese nationals desirous of coming to Australia. Let me go a little step further and say here and now that the Opposition has sought to make political capital out of a tragic situation in the Lebanon that was not of the Lebanon's choosing. The people in the Lebanon find that they have a civil war on their hands. People have been forced to leave the country and go to other parts of the world. Some have made application to come to this country. The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, under the capable administration of the Minister, has sought to process as quickly as possible and in a most compassionate way, every application that has come forward. 
Might I remind honourable members opposite and those Lebanese people in this country who are listening to this debate and indeed the Australian citizens who are listening, that every application that has come forward has been given compassionate consideration and has been expedited in a manner that is becoming to an efficient Department and an efficient Minister. We have sought to see that family reunions are given great emphasis. The Minister understands that there has been a need to widen the guidelines and has now allowed brothers and sisters to be included in that priority one category. The Government has not sought to make political capital out of this situation. The Minister has sent a highly specialised team to Nicosia and to overseas ports to ensure that applications are given expeditious treatment and to see what the exact situation is. 
I might add that the honourable member for Grayndler made passing complimentary references to the assisted passages scheme being increased from 20 000 to 30 000. But what he failed to say at the same time was that Opposition spokesmen, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other spokesmen for the Labor Opposition would have us bring no migrants to this country. They would like to see the figure of 50 000 brought in under their Administration reduced to maybe 30 000, 20 000 or even less. Yet they would compliment us on increasing the number from 20 000 to 30 000. How do they understand their own double-talk? The Government realises the importance of bringing migrants to this country from all parts of the world. Here they can be integrated into the Austraiian way of life and, by reason of human suffering and by reason of family reunion, they can be given a much needed place within the family circle. We do show real concern and that real concern has been expressed in many areas. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to the situation with regard to the evacuees from East Timor. I remind honourable members that as at 30 June 1976, there were 2000 evacuees in this country. The Minister, realising the situation, offered 2 things: One was an extension of thenvisas to 30 June 1977 and the alternative was that they could apply for permanent residence status. The Opposition has not made any mention of that this evening. Let me tell honourable members that over 1600 people have applied for permanent resident status and that is only one small section. We have already covered the Lebanese situation so I should like to place special emphasis on the Italian earthquake disaster. Would honourable members opposite suggest that this Government did not show any real concern for the Freuili disaster victims? Did not the Minister and indeed the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  immediately the disaster was made known to them communicate the total support of this Government in terms of financial commitment and in terms of offering to the relatives of those victims in Australia the assistance of the Australian Government in having their families brought to Australia without the normal formalities? Was not that real concern? That was not a matter of trying to gain political capital by using the migrant population as the Opposition would seek to do. 
The honourable member for Grayndler, in his closing remarks, made some passing reference- I am sorry he did not get to finish it- on the amnesty. He should talk about the amnesty! Under his Government's Administration illegal residents in this country were too frightened to come forward and submit themselves to the examination of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs which would consider whether they would be fit and proper residents. Under the present Administration over 10 times the number that came forward during the Labor Administration came forward. The honourable member should stand in this chamber tonight and suggest that there were certain areas of concern - 
Look, Bugs, if we had carrots I would give them to you tonight. 
THE  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The Committee will come to order. 
We did not have any concern other than to ensure that those persons who wanted to present themselves to be considered for permanent resident status came forward cleanly and said: 'I want to stay in Australia '. 
I should like to conclude by saying that I hope that the Government, in the Budget that ensues when the economy has improved, will give greater emphasis to the Department in as much as the Ethnic Affairs Bureau is concerned. We did honour our election promises. We did split immigration into its real area of concern- immigration and ethnic affairs. We placed greater emphasis on the Department as a whole. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to speak in support of the appropriation for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. In particular, I recognise at the outset the significant problems in the manufacturing industry. I also recognise the problems that have been spelt out by honourable members on both sides of the chamber this evening concerning unemployment, shipbuilding, industries assistance, tariffs, and all those sorts of things. But there is one area that has not been mentioned this evening that is of great concern to me and, I am sure, to honourable members on both sides of the chamber and to the Australian people- that is, drug abuse, particularly drug abuse pertaining to the young. 
This evening I read in the Sydney  Daily Mirror  a report that is frightening to all parents and frightening to all Australians. In part, the article refers to special crime squads having been set up in Sydney's outer western suburbs to deal with the problem of teenage school pupils and their introduction to drugs. The article states in part: 
Schoolgirls as young as 13 are skipping classes to learn how to use reefers- marijuana cigarettes- and harder drugs. 
Sergeant James said the girls, instead of going to school, met at the homes of well-known drug users. 
There they had been initiated in the use of various drugs, he said. 
So the article goes on. The girls were initiated into the use of hard drugs. In the 8 months ended 30 August the Bureau of Customs narcotic agents were successful in seizing 9,132 grams of heroin illicitly brought into this country. They were successful in locating that amount of heroin. That is only one of the drugs involved. Others were opium, cocaine, morphine, LSD and so the list goes on. That is to say nothing of the one million plus grams of cannabis that they were fortunate in being able to locate. 
So when I look at the appropriation of funds for the Bureau of Customs under the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, I think how well the money has been spent. To be quite honest, I think there should be a greater appropriation of funds, particularly in the area of customs officers who could detect the illicit importation of drugs which have a danger of the magnitude of heroin. I have seen, and I hope that all honourable members will have the opportunity of seeing for themselves, what harm can be done to the youth of this country when they are introduced to hard drugs. Only a few short months ago I saw a 15-year-old girl who was suffering the withdrawal symptoms of heroin and who died 3 days later. Just a few days ago the Minister released a statement following a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers concerning drugs and the problems connected with drugs. In part it said that at the conclusion of the meeting the Ministers emphasised that there should be no complacency about the drug problem in Australia. There should be no complacency about this problem. 
It has been suggested in newspaper articles that there could be an imposition of a fine of $100,000 together with a gaol sentence of 25 years for persons convicted of being drug pushers, as being the drug wholesalers. I want to make a clear distinction in lending my support not only to the imposition of the $100,000 fine and a 25 year gaol sentence. I believe the drug pusher, the one who would import the drugs into this country, the one who would see the distribution of drugs, is nothing but a murderer in the first degree because he contributes to the death of children. If that person is prepared to make money from the sale of heroin, if that person is prepared to take money from the youth of this country and put it into his pockets, then death is what should be accorded them. There is no penalty large enough to be placed upon these mongrels in today's society. They are the scum of the earth. I urge the Government and the Minister to give very clear consideration to the penalties that they should invoke. 
In conclusion, because of the limitation of time, I would just say that there has to be a clear distinction made between the drug pusher and the drug importer. Sure, there are poor unfortunates who, having been introduced to the use of heroin and other hard drugs, find that because of the desire and the need for these drugs they have to sell the drugs. They are not pushers in the truer sense of the word. But those who would come into the country with the drugs, knowing that they can make possibly millions of dollars, are the pushers. I lend my total support to the campaign to deal with them and I trust that in the years ahead we will see penalties invoked in this country that will really frighten the wits out of anyone who would use our children as bait for money. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs who is responsible for administering the Racial Discrimination Act. Has his attention been drawn to reports in the Press, in particular the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 20 July 1976, in which the Commissioner for Community Relations was reported as saying that the Federal Government was monitoring 23 organisations that it regarded as racist and that 95 000 Australians were members of these organisations? Are these reports true? 
-This evening I refer to the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-73. It is an archaic Act. In 1942, 35 years ago, we heard that certain sections of the Act had been adopted from the Canadian system. They provided that the broadcasting of political speeches should not be made after the Wednesday prior to an election. That was to prevent anyone jumping in at the eleventh hour and buying up all the advertising dmes of the stations. That is utter garbage. I call on the Government to take steps as soon as practicable and possible to remove this iniquity from the law. It is ridiculous that, during the course of a by-election, a State election in another State or whatever it may be, 48-hours before the time of that election there is no radio or television broadcast of electoral material. It is ridiculous that last week political material emanating from the nation's capital of Canberra for broadcast in New South Wales had to be sieved by the Press Gallery because there was a by-election in The Hills. 
Next weekend we have the same ridiculous situation. There is to be a by-election in Brisbane and there can be no political comment. I suggest here and now that the Government take urgent steps to amend section 1 16 of the Act so that political news and commentary, including a full range of election material, may be televised or broadcast until midnight on the day preceding the polling day- that is, midnight of the Friday preceding the election. Although the Act as it now stands is supposed to provide exemption for political news and that commentary not connected with the particular election can continue, the fact is that the system does not work. I have already mentioned what happened last weekend. That the exemptions in the Act did not work is made perfectly clear by the fact that journalists working in the Press Gallery of this Parliament and the management of television and radio stations they represent felt inhibited. As I said at the outset, this Act is archaic. Surely, no one in this House- indeed I would not suggest anyone outside it- would have the gall to suggest that Australia's electors might be confused or unfairly swayed in an election if this ridiculous ban were removed. I trust that the Green Paper into broadcasting will contain a recommendation that will support the measures that I have enunciated here this evening. Thank you for your indulgence,  Mr Speaker. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by referring him to the recent announcement by Telecom Australia that push button telephones would be available to subscribers at an initial cost of $50, with a recurring annual cost of $24. I ask the Minister: Why has it been necessary for such a large cost to be placed on this new and most modern telephone? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I refer the Prime Minister to his recent offer to the workers engaged in the Australian shipbuilding industry- in particular, to his statement that if they were prepared to accept the Government's specific terms it would be prepared to place an order for one ship in each Australian shipbuilding yard. Has the Prime Minister as yet received any acceptance of the offer by the workers engaged in the industry? 
-The Opposition has raised a very serious matter for discussion. Without a shadow of doubt it concerns me that the Opposition has not thought more seriously about the honourable members that it has appointed to speak on this matter. Without a shadow of doubt there is a genuine need for the re-election of a shadow Ministry. I think that the terms of the motion are such that the motion should be re-phrased. The motion refers to the failure of the Government to commit itself to the retention of an Australian shipbuilding industry. If ever there has been a need to change the word Government' to 'Opposition' it is on this occasion because it is the Opposition's policy, as the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has already clearly explained, that has resulted in the bringing forward of this motion. This motion is a motion of condemnation. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  have asked where is the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton).  I ask honourable members opposite: Where is the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who is supposedly so concerned about the retention of the shipbuilding industry in Newcastle? Is he in the Chamber? Of course not. Why is he not present? Because he has no concern for the industry. As I will shortly let the House know, he had no concern for the industry during his tenure as Minister for Transport. He was the holder of that office for 3 years. What did he do for it during that time? Nothing. What interest does he have in it? None. The honourable member for Shortland implied that the Government members committee on shipbuilding had wasted the taxpayers' money because no report has been forthcoming concerning its investigation of the Australian shipbuilding industry. I point out to the honourable member for Shortland that the members of the committee paid their own expenses and that the investigation was not conducted at the taxpayers' expense. Does the Opposition have a comparable committee? Are any of the honourable members sitting on the Opposition benches members of a committee that is inquiring into the Australian shipbuilding industry? Of course not. 
The Minister interjected that there has been no submission from the Australian Labor Party to the Government on this issue. I would not expect one to be made because the Opposition's concern is purely on the surface. This matter of public importance has been brought forward on a Wednesday, which is a day on which there is no broadcast of this chamber's proceedings. When was such a matter last brought forward? On a Wednesday- a day on which there is no such broadcast. Honourable members opposite are actors. They are standing up in this Parliament to get their views recorded in  Hansard  so that they can pass them throughout the shipyards. Honourable members opposite are not prepared to have their comments on this subject broadcast to the concerned workers outside. So they raise it on a Wednesday. 
On 13 August the Minister for Industry and Commerce stated that the Government had decided to continue for the time being the shipbuilding subsidy arrangements introduced in December 1973 by the Whitlam Government. 
That was the first statement made by the Minister for Industry and Commerce leading up to the reference of the shipbuilding and ship repair industry to the Industries Assistance Commission. I invite honourable members to listen to the following quotation: 
Enough is enough, when one hears the puny attempts by members of the Opposition who declaim: 'Blame the Government! Blame the Government! Blame the Government!' The Government pays the wages bill for every worker employed in the Australian shipbuilding industry .. . The future of the Australian shipbuilding industry is sound. 
They are not my words; but they are appropriate, are they not? 
They are the words of a former Minister for Manufacturing Industry- a defeated Minister. 

 - Mr Enderby. Listen to these words: 
And in Australia- the most highly manufacturing country in the world, a very large manufacturing, a great manufacturing country, but the most highly protected of them all- we have too often forgotten the consumer. 
They are not my words. They are not the words of the Minister for Transport. They are the words of the former Prime Minister- the  pro tern  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Yes, we do have a great manufacturing industry, but we do forget the consumer. Do members of the Opposition seriously believe, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide said, that the $240m subsidy that is applied in the United States should be applied to this industry in Australia? Is that what they are suggesting? They have not said that outright, but by innuendo that is what we are supposed to have. Here is another report of a statement by the Labor Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Mr Enderby: 
The Federal Government would not necessarily assist industries which went to the wall under Labor policies, the Minister for Manufacturing Industries  (Mr Enderby)  said yesterday. 
It is a different tune today. On how many occasions during the 3 years of Labor Government did the honourable member for Port Adelaide speak on the crisis in the Australian shipbuilding industry? On how many occasions did the honourable member for Shortland do so? On how many occasions did supporters of the then Government raise a matter of public importance relating to the Australian shipbuilding industry? 
I think the honourable member would be right. Another quotation I have states: 
The unemployment in Australia is primarily due now to the fact that people are pricing themselves out of jobs. 
Whose words were they? They were the words spoken by the former Prime Minister on 30 November 1974 on the program  Four Corners.  On that program the Labor Government's tariff cuts were being discussed. There was some concern expressed about the superphosphate bounty and a Mercedes vehicle. Well, the Mercedes was ordered by the Leader of the Opposition when he was Prime Minister, and is it suggested that the superphosphate bounty is doing nothing to help the man on the land? Is it suggested by members of the Opposition that we should do nothing for the man on the land? During their 3 years in office that is exactly what they did. Are they suggesting that their tariff cuts did nothing to destroy the workers in the clothing industry? Now members of the Opposition supposedly are concerned about workers in the Australian shipbuilding industry. They were not concerned then. Another quotation I have states: 
The subsidy that was paid to that industry in 1972-73 amounted to about $30m. There are S000 men employed in the shipbuilding industry. That means that the Australian taxpayers met the wages bill of the Australian shipbuilding industry. 
They are not my words but the words of the then Attorney-General and Minister for Police and Customs,  Mr Enderby,  on 3 June 1975. It is astounding that the Opposition had the audacity to bring forward today a motion that condemns it. The Opposition has been condemned before. The former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle, who has the Newcastle dockyard in his electorate, is not even concerned enough to come into this House today. He knows that if he walked in here he would stand condemned. He would not have the opportunity to interject because his own words would condemn him. The honourable member for Shortland referred to the 12 years of Liberal and Country Party administration in New South Wales. He forgot to say that there were 19 years of Labor administration during which an improvement to the docks could have been brought about. 
No, nothing was done. Now there will be an opportunity to do something because  Mr Wran,  the New South Wales Premier, has given the shipbuilders in New South Wales a real opportunity to show their strength, determination and tenacity. He is prepared to order the floating dock overseas. I was at a launching in 
Newcastle recently when it was announced that the dockyard could be ordered overseas. I asked the reason and was told that it was because of cost and the time of construction. Even if the dock were commissioned by the former Liberal and National Country Party administration the Labor administration under Neville Wran could now re-order that dock in New South Wales if he cared to do so. He does not care to do so. Neither does the Premier of South Australia care, although at least his offer was better. 
This Government is concerned about the shipbuilding industry and has been concerned from the outset. It was prepared to make an offer to the workers in Newcastle and Whyalla but they were not prepared to accept it. They were not prepared to accept it when we addressed them on the lawns outside Parliament House. They want money, they want to pay off their houses and they want to live in Newcastle. I want to see them stay there and I want to see them working. Is it unreasonable to say to them: 'Let us have a moratorium?' Is it unreasonable to ask them to restrain their wages? If those things are unreasonable I do not know what sanity is left in the Australian shipbuilding industry. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Which ABC employees are operating under contracts which specify that the person involved will not write for publication or speak in public about the ABC's affairs during or after the engagement without the previous written consent of the Assistant General Manager of the ABC. 
Is this ban an infringement of the fundamental civil liberty of freedom of speech. 
Who initially drew up the terms of the contract for  Mr Richard  Carleton's services. 
Did the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor approve the use of the words in the contracts. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) To what extent, in what way, and at what times were officers of the Commonwealth Government directly involved in the recent Cedar Bay drug raid and the subsequent imprisonments. 
Who were those officers, and by which Commonwealth authority were they employed. 
Has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs heard of reports on radio station 2UW's John Laws program this morning alleging that citizens who have contributed regularly for periods of 20, 33 and 40 years to the funeral fund operated by the Sydney firm known as Labor Funerals have received a cash benefit from the firm of only $ 1 30 for funerals ranging in cost between $500 and $700? 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Is the Darwin Reconstruction Commission currently constructing approximately 300 new homes per month as reported; if not, what is the situation. 
Are any of the sources of building materials being used in the production of these homes outside Australia; if so, to what extent are building materials being imported. 
What are the names and addresses of each of the companies and partnerships with production points outside the Northern Territory which have already produced and supplied, or will produce and supply, building materials direct to the Commission during 1 976. 
What materials does each such company or partnership produce, and, in general terms, what quantities will they supply to the Commission during 1976. 
By what means are those companies located outside the Northern Territory transporting these goods to Darwin. 
Does the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development issue copies of his speeches to the Opposition 2 hours prior to presenting them in this House? Did the Minister extend this privilege to demonstrators on the lawns of Parliament House last Thursday afternoon? If not, will the Minister tell the House how a speaker at the demonstration had a copy of his statement on the Ranger uranium environmental study approximately  VA  hours prior to its being delivered in this House? 
-I rise to support the Bills. I do not rise simply to take the time of the House in idle chatter or because a government  speaker  is the next  speaker  to receive the call. I would like to refer specifically to the second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  wherein he states that action against trafficking in narcotics and the possession of narcotics illicitly imported still remains a function of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. Narcotics are responsible for the greatest human tragedy that this country and the world has seen. I am sure that I would be joined by most honourable members and concerned Australians in predicting that in a few short years unless something is done to ensure that the import of illicit drugs to this country is cut off, we shall have a tragedy which we shall greatly regret. I am not suggesting for one moment that the Bureau of Narcotics is not doing its job. Quite the contrary. I take this opportunity to congratulate the Bureau of Narcotics and its officers on the job that they do. Their job is not easy because those who would illicitly import drugs into this country are dealing in a multi-million dollar empire and their ways and means are devious. In most instances they use innocent people or those within their organisation who have little or nothing to lose but a lot to gain. 
The front page of last night's  Daily Mirror  carried a simple headline which referred to a real tragedy. The headline stated: 
Smoking pot at 13 . . . shooting heroin at 16 . . . dead at 18. 
This is the story of a young boy with a lot to live for who at 13 years of age was introduced to pot and graduated to the big scale at death.  His  death was brought about by people throughout the world who nave found a wonderful way of making money. I refer to trafficking in heroin, marihuana, hashish, LSD and cocaine. I do not know whether honourable members have any idea of the current value of the illicit drug, heroin. At the moment heroin in 0.2-gram capsule form sells for $40. On that basis a kilogram of heroin is worth $250,000. That is a lot of money. The size of the product is not very large but it can cause so much death. 
Seizures this year from 1 January to 31 October of heroin alone amount to 10 806 grams. This was almost 11 kilograms and the estimated market value is $3m. The 1 1 kilograms of heroin confiscated or seized was in pure form. However, the dealer and the pusher do not sell the heroin in that form. They like to adulterate it. They like to put various additives with it to increase its value. As it passes from one hand to another it goes into an adulterated form. Information that I have suggests that it can be adulterated up to a ratio of 10 times to one but that on average the ratio would be four or five to one. So this year 50 000 grams or more of adulterated heroin could have found its way onto the marketplace at a market value of $ 10m. 
I have spoken about the value and quantity of heroin. But what about the doses? About 250 000 doses of heroin could have been obtained from the quantity I have just mentioned. Some of the 250 000 doses could have been available to my children, to the children of all honourable members and to children and adults throughout this country. I am concerned about this problem. I am not standing here in this House as some sort of fool pushing a wheel barrow. I stand here as a member of this place who has an opportunity to make the people of this country and honourable members aware of the seriousness of this problem. Illicit drugs are a multi-million dollar business that deals in death. 
I would like to refer again to the story of Jamie McGrath, the boy who smoked his first joint of marihuana at 13 years of age. The father of this boy is concerned because he has lost a son. He is concerned enough to devote time, effort and financial resources now to setting up a rehabilitation centre to help young drug addicts. I hope that the people of New South Wales, particularly those in Sydney, will get behind  Mr McGrath  and help him with this project. It is not a matter of catching the importer of drugs; we have a responsibility as a Commonwealth government as much as the State governments to ensure that a proper rehabilitation program is provided for the poor unfortunates who become addicted to narcotic drugs. I believe that  Mr McGrath  will go throughout his life helping the unfortunates to have a future. Every day I read newspapers which carry headlines such as '$250,000 in drugs ' and ' Four on charges ' or I read how $ 1 m worth of drugs has been seized. As a matter of fact, $3m worth of drugs was seized at Ashfield, which is in my electorate, just 3 short weeks ago. This sort of occurrence indicates that something has gone wrong with society. 
There seems to me to be a certain acceptance of drug taking today. There seems to be some degree of unawareness of the real problem. It is true that the problem is heroin, cocaine and LSD. But over one ton of hashish has been seized this year and surely that is where the problem is beginning. I am not a medical expert. Maybe marihuana has no harmful effects. But the fact is that an 18-year old boy who started smoking marihuana died from using herion 
I think that the honourable member, being a medical practitioner, would agree that if a 13-year old boy is introduced to marihuana, and if he becomes addicted to that drug and then goes to a harder drug because he finds that he gets no pleasure from the first drug, he has started on the road to destruction not from mother's milk but from marihuana. 
I hope and I pray that the Government will introduce measures to fight this problem. I am confident, having had discussions with the Minister, and he in turn having had discussions with State Ministers, that the Government will introduce measures that will seek to remove from society those people who would seek to bring into this country and to deal in drugs of addiction. It is not a simple case of imposing a monetary fine. It is not a simple case of placing someone in prison. Let us go further and take the property of the people involved. Let us remove the wealthy assets that they have accumulated over the years with the massive profits they have made. The sum of $100,000 is not much to be offered to bring heroin into this country; $10,000 is not much to offer someone to bring in marihuana. It is a multi-million dollar business. 
I again remind honourable members and the people who are listening to this broadcast that narcotic drugs and drugs of addiction kill. They do not provide life. They do not provide a future for those who take the cursed things. They provide death. We have a responsibility. As I nave said before in this chamber, I will do all I can to ensure action is taken to apprehend and to punish those who bring in drugs. Also I want to be able to help and have others help the poor unfortunates who have been addicted to drugs through these dregs of society. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report on page  6  of the  Age  of 5 October 1976, headlined 'Reds Plan a Wall to Seal Germany', which detailed moves by the East German Government to extend and reinforce 'the wall' surrounding that country. 
Can he say if the East German Government is acting in this way; if so, to what extent. 
Over what percentage, and for how many kilometres, of its borders does East Germany maintain its 'wall '. 
Between East Germany and what other countries does this 'wall 'stand. 
How many persons are known to have lost their lives at the borders in attempting to (a) leave and (b) enter East Germany since World war II. 
What is the official explanation given by the East German Government for the maintenance and expansion of its wall' which consists of a wire mesh fence, trip wires, remote controlled mines, an anti-vehicular trap, a soft-earth strip and special motor cycle tracks. 
7 ) What is the real reason for ' the wall '. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people of each of the 10 largest ethnic groups are estimated or known to reside in the Electoral Division of Evans in terms of the latest available figures. 
What were the corresponding estimates or known figures for the years 1930, 1933, 1960, 196S and 1970. 
Is the definition of the persons mentioned in parts ( 1 ) and (2) that they were born outside Australia; if not, on what basis is the classfication made. 
Does the classification include Australian-born children of persons born outside Australia. 
3 ) In respect of the answer to part ( 1 ), what percentage of the persons in each group is estimated or known to have taken Australian citizenship. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many citizens in the Electoral Division of Evans are estimated or known to be receiving (a) service pensions and (b) other forms of repatriation benefits. 
How many (a) females and (b) males in part ( 1 ) are receiving such repatriation benefits, and will the Minister provide a break up of each of the various categories of benefits received. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) With With reference to the Telecom Tender for Pressure Sensitive Labels Corporate Identity Schedule No. C.8664 for 2 year period 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1978, what date did tender forms leave the offices of Telecom for prospective tenderers. 
Which officer was responsible for the drawing up of the technical requirements set out in the specifications. 
Was the *3M Controltac' product tested prior to being included in the specifications: if not, why not: if so, what were the results of those tests. 
Did the 3M Company write the original specifications. 
Following the close offenders, did any tenderer bring to the attention of Telecom evidence that the product known as '3M Controltac' would not and could not perform within the quality requirements and to the extent required in the specifications set out by Telecom. 
If so, when did Telecom receive this information, and did any officers of Telecom carry out a new investigation into the performance of the '3M Controltac' product as a result of this new evidence. 
If a new investigation was carried out, when were these tests (a) commenced and (b) concluded. 
8 ) Which officer held responsibility for the supervision of these tests, and what was the result 
Has it been explained to Telecom that the '3M Controltac' product will be inadequate for Telecom's specified purposes, and, as a result, will tens of thousands of taxpayers ' dollars be wasted. 
Was the tenderer who brought the defects in the ' 3M Controltac' product to the notice of Telecom given an opportunity to re-tender; if not, why not. 
Were the original specifications changed as a result of the new investigation following additional evidence; if so, when were the changes made. 
Has the contract been let in part or in total; if so, to whom. 
What percentage of the total contract's money value has been let. 
What was the value of that part of the contract which has been let 
What is the total value of the overall contract 
16) If part ofthe contract has been let, to which firms has it been let, and in which cities are those contractors located. 
Were any original tenderers given the opportunity to re-tender; if not, why not; if so, what was the date of the written advice to new tenderers despatched from Telecom. 
What closing date was set 
Will the tender now be completely re-opened. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many citizens in the electoral division of Evans are estimated or known to be receiving (a) pensions and (b) other forms of social security benefits. 
How many (a) females and (b) males in part ( 1 ) are receiving such social security benefits, and will the Minister provide a break up of each of the various categories of benefits received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
Under the new Federalism arrangements, if the increased allocations to local government were received in pro rata amounts by individual councils, what increased allocations should the Municipalities of Ashfield, Canterbury, Drummoyne and Marrickville expect to receive in 1976-77. 
What income other than from rates will each of those Councils receive in 1976-77. 
For what major purposes will those funds be allocated to each of those Councils. 
What income from (a) rates and (b) sources not mentioned in part (2 ) do each of those Councils expect to receive in 1976-77. 
For each of the categories in parts (1), (2), (3) and (4), what estimated percentage increases are the 1976-77 estimates over 1975-76 figures. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons on the Commonwealth payroll are employed in the electoral division of Evans. 
By which department or Commonwealth instrumentality, in what numbers, and at what locations are these persons employed. 
In view of the increased financial assistance to the New South Wales Government and local government under the new Federalism arrangements, can he provide the corresponding figures for persons employed by the New South Wales Government and the Municipalities of Ashfield, Canterbury, Drummoyne and Marrickville. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, upon notice: 
Can he say whether some students at the National Institute of Dramatic An in Sydney have been compelled against their wishes to be actively and not just passively engaged in work for 17 hours a day with only 2 short breaks during 1976. 
If so, does this have the Director's personal approval. 
If so, is this practice conducive to good performance. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has TAA 's catering service at Sydney Airport in recent weeks thrown away a daily average of 100 cartons of cream delivered the same day or the previous day. 
If not, has the average in recent weeks been higher. 
Does such a substantial amount of wastage indicate poor planning. If not, why not 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) How many telephonists are on duty to take telegrams over the telephone in each of the capital cities between 12 midnight and 7 a.m. 
Is it a fact that only one operator has been on duty on Sydney 015 to serve nearly 3 million people. If so, for how long. 
) Is it also a fact that, until recently, 6 operators serviced Sydney 0 1 5. If not, what has been the position. 
How many (a) oral and (b) written complaints have been received by the Commission from Telecom staff who have been forced by the Commission to cope with extraordinary delays and customer complaints while providing inferior service. 
As persons dialling Sydney 015 between the times referred to in part ( 1 ) have had to wait for over one hour for the telephone to be answered, will he instruct Telecom Australia to remedy this situation immediately. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the total value of Commonwealth contracts in the Electoral Division of Evans for which construction is expected to be completed in 1976-77. 
What is the value of the individual projects mentioned in part (1 ). 
What is the total value of contracts in the Electoral Division of Evans presently being constructed but not expected to be completed in 1 976-77. 
What are the projects involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the average enrolment for each form at each of the government and non-government schools in the Electoral Division of Evans during 1 976. 
What were the corresponding figures for 1975. 
If estimates are available, what are the corresponding figures for the triennium 1977-79 for which the Minister announced funding on 4 November 1976. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many people of each of the 10 largest ethnic groups are estimated or known to reside in the Electoral Division of Evans in terms of the latest available figures. 
What were the corresponding estimates or known figures for the years 1950, 1955, 1960, 1965 and 1970. 
Is the definition of the persons mentioned in parts ( 1 ) and (2) that they were born outside Australia; if not, on what basis is the classification made. 
Does the classification include Australian-born children of persons born outside Australia. 
5 ) In respect of the answer to part ( 1 ), what percentage of the persons in each group is estimated or known tohave taken Australian citizenship. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
In what year is the new and permanent Parliament House expected to be fully operational. 
Do the current plans provide for each private (a) Member and (b)  Senator to  be accommodated in an individual office within that building. 
For what total number of Parliamentarians is there office accommodation in the current plans. 
For how many members of the staff of each private (a) Member and (b)  Senator do  current plans provide office accommodation. 
Do the current office accommodation plans, for all of the Members and Senators ' individual staffs, provide for that accommodation to be located directly adjacent to their Members and Senators similar to the ministerial office arrangements in the present Parliament House. 
For what total number of media representatives and associated personnel do the current plans provide office accommodation. 
7 ) For what total number of Parliamentary Library Staff do the current plans provide office accommodation. 
Do the plans provide for office accommodation for the personnel mentioned in parts (2), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) to be located in close proximity to the Senate and House of Representatives Chambers and therefore all within the one building. 
-The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and the Government are to be complimented for bringing forward a Bill as important as this one and for allowing the public, the trade unions, the Opposition and members of this House to have the opportunity to read it and to discuss it among themselves. The Minister said that he would receive submissions so that amendments or alterations could be made in the next session. I have received a number of submissions from my Liberal Party organisation and from businesses in my electorate. I thank the constituents of Evans- the business people, large and smallwho have taken the time and trouble to read the Bill and the explanatory memorandum and to make submissions. 
To participate in the debate this evening it is necessary not only to read the Bill, as it would appear members of the Opposition may have done, and to read the Bill which the Australian Labor Party introduced, but it is necessary to refer to the basic Act. I have read the Labor Government's Bill. I will not condemn its approach out of hand. The consumer protection aspects of its Bill are to be commended. So I am not a knocker, as members opposite would be and have been. There have been submissions from outside business interests, from beyond the bureaucracy. I read the Minister's second reading speech and the shadow Minister's speech so that I could make a contribution this evening. It should be remembered that the initiative for trade practices legislation was not a Labor Party initiative. It was a Liberal initiative in 1963, when the Trade Practices Act first got off the ground when  Sir Garfield  Barwick pioneered proposals for regulating the market place. Listening to Opposition speeches this evening, yesterday and beforehand, one would think that the Labor Party was the pioneer- the protector of the market place and the protector of the businessman. From what I heard in the few brief speeches this evening, it would appear that the 
Labor Party is the protector of the trade union movement. 
We heard so much about petrol, bread and a lot of other things. I will come to them shortly. I stand four-square and unashamedly as a supporter of capitalism. I do so in the belief that m particular areas regulation is necessary and desirable if our economic system is to survive. I do not support unequivocally naked capitalism on its own. I learned enough about a mixed economy during the tragic years of the 1920s and the 1930s. By 'mixed economy' I mean one which has minimum government regulation and participation, as this legislation has, but maximum private and free competition and initiative, so that the rip-off and excesses of the Depression era cannot be repeated. I do not want to go into the Minister's second reading speech at great depth, but a couple of aspects should be referred to. He said: 
The Trade Practices Act will continue to deal with anticompetitive agreements, monopolisation, exclusive dealing, resale price maintenance and anti-competitive mergers. 
If the Opposition has any concern for the consumer, the Australian public, if it has any concern for inflation, as it tends to indicate to this House and to the public at large, how could it oppose this Bill? Why does everybody on the front bench and elsewhere in the Opposition oppose this Bill? The Minister has made the position very clear. Do honourable members opposite oppose this Bill because they do not want a Bill that deals with anti-competitive agreements? Is it that they really want monopolisation and exclusive dealing? Let me talk about the selling of petrol and the selling of bread, because that seems to be a very interesting topic. 
-That is another good one. I suggest to the honourable member for Hunter that if private contractors were put into the breweries, at a lower rate than the present carters receive, there would be some sort of move in the trade union movement that would cause a black ban to be imposed. Is it not strange that the housewife who has to pay 45c for a loaf of bread is told that she cannot have it for 40c, 39c or 38c because a few trade unionists have said: 'We are not going to deliver it'. 
-That is exactly what it is. The Opposition would support in this House the continuation of that blackmail because it suits it politically and generally. But members of the Opposition have to go out to the electorate and talk to the consumer. How they can in all conscience adopt this attitude is beyond my comprehension. Let me go a bit further. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The present Act has been criticised as being unduly harsh on mergers involving the acquisition of small companies. For example, it has been criticised as severely hampering a small businessman seeking to sell his business and retire. 
Is this the sort of thing the Opposition would be against? Are we again seeing a display of socialism, of which honourable members opposite are the greatest proponents- the belief that the businessman means nothing? Honourable members opposite believe that the only thing that matters is the public sector and that there is no such thing as the private sector. The reason this country is in the economic mess it is in and the reason for the unemployment that exists is that the philosophy of the previous Government was that 2 per cent was a sufficient return on capital, that the private sector meant nothing. All that mattered was the public sector. 
Economic vandalism! Members of the Opposition do not even know the meaning of the phrase 'economic management'. To oppose this section of the economy is simply again to oppose the small man. They say: 'Let us put him out of business'. However, if this happened they would ask: 'What about unemployment?' The Minister's second reading speech covers the takeover of small businesses for which there is a threshold limit of $34m. Surely this proposal is not to be condemned. Of course, if there is a systematic takeover of one company after another there is cause for the Trade Practices Act to be enforced. But if the takeover of small businesses is in the interest of the consumer the Act should allow that takeover to proceed. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said yesterday - 
It was a poor speech. I would like to quote for the honourable member for St George extracts from the honourable member's speech which is reported at page 28 1 of yesterday's  Hansard.  The honourable member for Port Adelaide said: . . . Legislation should not be regularly amended. 
Why not? Amendments equal contemporary and representative government. Is that why the honourable member for Port Adelaide objects? Does he not wish to be part of that system of government? Maybe he would rather be part of a government that puts a different connotation on it. Maybe a republican government is the type of government that he would support. Maybe he would have some support from the front bench of the Opposition in this respect. Perhaps the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jun)  will be interested to hear what the honourable member for Port Adelaide is reported as saying at page 282 of  Hansard.  He said: 
What is true - 
And that is a statement in itself- is that the Labor Opposition and the Australian trade union movement have joined together to condemn this clumsy attempt to widen the scope of industrial relations. 
I have news for the honourable member for Port Adelaide and for the Opposition. We intend to continue to widen the scope of industrial relations and in so far as we can to open up the trade union to its membership. The honourable member for Port Adelaide mentioned the petroleum and brewing industries. The Sydney petrol situationand I had something to say about this earlier- is one clear example of what this legislation will achieve. It should help to overcome the situation in Sydney where the Sydney consumer motor vehicle owner, with the support of the Wran Labor Government, has had expensive petrol. Yet consumers in Victoria have had the benefit of cheaper petrol. I ask the Opposition: Is that a fair go? Is that what the Opposition stands for? Is that the sort of treatment that it would like to continue? Not too many Opposition members in the chamber would prefer to say yes or no to that question. But silence is golden, and silence is condemnation. 
The Swanson Committee clearly showed that the existing law has effectively abolished discounts and increased prices. What sort of legislation is it that after being brought into this place and thrust upon the Australian consumer has had the effect of forcing up prices although it was designed to give cheaper goods to the consumer? What possible answer can any member on the Opposition benches have when their own Bill did the reverse to what they intended it should do? It is fair enough to suggest that the intention of the Bill was to reduce prices. But it did not work. Honourable members opposite have had the audacity to stand in this House this evening and yesterday and suggest that the Government's amendments are not for the benefit of the consumer. 
I do not know whether anyone has mentioned in this debate the particular problems associated with, for example, the medical profession. I am not a doctor but I believe that we could get to the point where black bans could be placed on the medical profession because of the level of fees. Is there not something wrong with the system and with the Labor Government's Act when on the one hand the Opposition says that the trade union movement can black ban service stations and black ban retail stores that would sell cheap bread and on the other hand it says that it is a great idea to black ban the medical profession? That is what is called 2-sided or 2-faced politics. The Labor Government's legislation was designed to be 2-faced. When it suited honourable members opposite they supported the irregularities of the legislation and when it did not suit them they enforced the legislation. I have some other notes in respect of the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I do not know why his name keeps coming forward. Maybe it is because of the poor quality of the speech that he made yesterday. 
Again the honourable member for St George is keen to interject For his benefit the honourable member for Port Adelaide is reported at page 284 of  Hansard  as saying that a Labor government would abolish the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. What a brilliant move. First of all the Opposition is concerned with consumer protection. 
-That is right. I can assure the Minister that the Opposition is not likely to get the opportunity to do that for a long, long time. What would the abolition of the Department achieve, except for the fact that a very brilliant Minister would be looking for another ministry? We have just achieved a blend of regulatory processes under one umbrella in this Department The advantage of that is that all the agencies in this area will be grouped together. The regulatory agencies which are grouped under the one Minister will be able to keep businesses open, competitive and clear. As a result we have one Minister who can assess what some have called competitive interests but what I would regard as complementary interests. The Department of Business and Consumer Affairs has the interests of the consumer at heart. It has the interests of all consumers, and not a minority group, at heart. There is no selective treatment. The amendments that have been proposed in this Bill will mean that the consumer must gain. 
I would like to conclude my speech by passing a compliment. I am not given to passing compliments in this House. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs who is at the table is to be congratulated, not just for the manner in which the Bill has been presented, not for his second reading speech but for bringing this Bill forward and for allowing sufficient public debate to go on to ensure that when the Bill that is designed to protect the Australian consumer is enacted in this place great benefit will go to the consumer. I have great pleasure in supporting this Bill. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (8.50)- I oppose certain clauses of this Bill because I consider that they will do a great deal of harm to a large section of the Australian community. I found it very strange that the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  should start his speech by saying what a great service the Minister for BusIness and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  had done in allowing the Bill to be presented to the House so that the Opposition could debate it and people generally could be aware of the clauses. Surely, with a complex Bill such as this, that is the least we should expect under a democratic system of government. The honourable member for Evans said much about the Bill introduced by the Labor Government to keep prices down. He claimed that it had just the opposite effect. Right at this time Government supporters should be some authority on that because I would say that the cost of living figures announced recently in this House would clearly indicate that the measures that the Government has taken over the last 12 months have had the very opposite effect to reducing prices. Surely the honourable member for Evans would agree, on the figures in front of him, that the Government's measures have had the opposite effect. 
Let us give the Minister some credit. I remember that when he introduced the Bill before Christmas he said that he was doing so for the express purpose of exposing it both to honourable members and to the interested section of the community for scrutiny and comment and that when Parliament was prorogued the Bill would lapse and would be reintroduced later, incorporating such changes as would come out of this debate and submissions made by the interested section of the public at large. There is no doubt that some credit has to be given if that procedure is to be followed, I suppose even if it is only for the reason that it is so strange in this House for us to get that opportunity. The Government often brings in a Bill and when the Opposition wants to put forward speakers the Bill is pushed through in a great hurry. I think the express purpose there is to prevent people from fully understanding the clauses of the Bill. 
Even if some credit is due to the Minister, the impression that one would gather from the speakers on the Government side of the House is that they take a different view altogether. While they are praising the provisions of the Bill and making a lot of noise about the wonderful submissions the Minister has received, one cannot help getting the impression that most of these submissions must have come from big business, because when speakers on the Opposition side have put forward proposals to improve the Bill as suggested by the Minister himself attack after attack has been made on them personally. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  spoke about the unions getting funds from the big monopolist unions. What big monopolist unions? The unions are made up only of small working class people such as myself. They have no big funds. The only funds they collect are from the union members. It must be recalled that when the Labor Government proposed to make known where campaign funds came from it was the then Opposition that opposed that Bill. Honourable members opposite are the people who do not want it known where campaign funds come from. One Government supporter spoke about the big union leaders being robber barons who march only to the drum of their own egos. It seems to me that, regardless of the good intentions of the Minister, this kind of rubbish will not bring about the co-operation of the great mass of Australian trade unionists; nor will it get the co-operation of the Australian public 
It does not matter how much honourable members opposite try to gloss over this matter; this Bill contains a clause that will bring about a big change in our industrial relations. When unions take industrial action to put pressure on an employer in defence of the rights of trade unionists they will have to be conscious not only of the sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act but also of the sections of the Trade Practices Act, particularly proposed section 45D. This section will have the effect of rendering unworkable the system of industrial relations as it is known to most unions and unionists. 
The greatest crime of all is that the Government has introduced this provision through the back door. It has introduced it into the Trade Practices Act and not into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is said to deal with boycotts, but the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  clearly demonstrated that it goes much further than that. It would have the effect of prohibiting all industrial action, such as strikes, working to regulations and picketing, regardless of how justified that action might be to defend trade unionists' rights. The proposed section reads: 
An employee of a person . . . shall not engage in conduct in concert with another person or other persons ... for the purpose of hindering or preventing the supply of goods or services by the employer to a corporation if the hindering or preventing of the supply of those goods or services by the employer to the corporation would, or would be likely to, have a substantial adverse effect on the business of the corporation. 
As I see it, this could mean that, if a trade unionist were locked out of an industry such as the mining industry or the timber milling industry and the industry continued to produce by working the staff and bringing in contractors, the people who were working for the contractors, if they said they would not deliver goods or take machinery in to do the work, would then be in contravention of the legislation. I understand it means that any action of a group of employees acting in concert which has the effect of hindering or preventing the supply of goods to a corporation would bring the group into contravention of proposed section 4SD. It covers a vast spectrum of union activity. It is very puzzling why it was introduced through the back door into the Trade Practices Act. Was the reason the fact that if it was introduced into the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act it could not be enforced on the great body of trade unions which are covered by State industrial legislation, or was there some other reason? We have not been told. 
It must be a shock to decent trade unionists fighting against injustice. It must be a great shock for a trade unionist to learn that, if he dared to oppose the boss by supporting his fellow unionists who were out on strike or locked out of an industry and refused to supply goods and services to a corporation, he could be fined $50,000 under the section 76 in Part IV of the Act, which includes of course a penalty for offences against proposed section 45d. In addition, section 82 provides a further penalty for a person who contravenes a provision of the said Part IV. It states that he may be sued by the corporation that has been affected by hindering or preventing the supply of goods. It is very strange that the Government should introduce legislation of this type through the back door and not by an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. This most suspicious piece of legislation will certainly plunge the country into industrial confrontation, because if the unions accept it without some kind of battle they will forfeit aU rights to act as trade unions. 
It is also strange that while the Government is handing out what could be a death blow to the trade unionists it seems to me to be acting in a different direction towards big business. The Government proposes to drop section 73 (a). If this section is removed, meaningful competition between a lot of big businesses will cease, and of course the consumer will once again be on the receiving end. Someone has to pay for a manipulated business transaction, and of course the big slug will be passed on to the consumer. Preferential discounts which this section presently provides against must be paid for by someone. Government speakers blame the unions for inflation.  Speaker  after  speaker  on the other side attacked the trade unions and talked about strikes. One would think that there had never been a justified strike in the country. Honourable members opposite suggest that every strike is the fault of the unions, that unionists must like going home without pay, that they must like living without money. That shows the attitude of the Government. 
Opposition members have never denied that inflation in this country is a problem. Of course it is a problem. But if the Government is sincere in its call for co-operation from all sections of the community, why is every measure it takes aimed at worsening the conditions of the workers, the trade unionists, and at making things better for big business? I remember when wage indexation was first discussed and the Government was saying that the unions must accept package deals. Lo and behold, it was not long before the Government wanted to water down wage indexation when the unions started to accept it. I remember a big attack on the trade union movement when I was a member of the Barrier Industrial Council. A vicious attack was made by members of the Government on the Barrier Industrial Council. But let me remind honourable members opposite that the Broken Hill mining companies negotiate round table agreements with unions. An agreement has been signed for 2 years and not one day has been lost in 2 years. It seems to me that, instead of trying to score in every direction they can, honourable members opposite should look around and see where they can give a bit of credit to the trade union movement. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  should be inviting a member of the Barrier Industrial Council over to help him solve some of his industrial problems instead of criticising unions in this House. 
The Government should come out in the open and should stop trying to camouflage its incompetence in handling the ecomony. When the people get sick of the Government blaming everything on the previous Government, it thinks that the best way out is to make an attack on the trade unions. I hope that the Government will remove some of the pernicious clauses of this Bill and that it will adopt a different attitude to the trade union movement. The Government will eventually receive co-operation that way but not the way it is going. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Are allegations against The Children of God concerning brainwashing, psychiatric damage to young people, exploitation of young people financially involving sums up to $2,500 and heavy sado-masochistic sexual emphasis in its literature matters within the jurisdiction of a State Parliament rather than the Commonwealth Parliament? Will the AttorneyGeneral indicate whether his Department is investigating the Children of God or whether it is a matter far more appropriately left to State parliamentary inquiries? Would such a parliamentary inquiry at the State level give the Children of God full, fair and ample opportunity to answer the allegations made against them? For the assistance of the Attorney-General I bring to his attention that in New South Wales State Parliament this afternoon my State colleague the honourable member for Gordon,  Mr Tim  Moore, will move an urgency debate - 
-I support the Commonwealth Electoral Amendment Bill and the amendments which have been brought forward. Contrary to what the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has just said, they are necessary. It would appear that possibly the honourable member for Corio and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  are in conflict again. It has become apparent in this debate that the honourable member for Corio believes the Bill is not necessary. Yet the Leader of the Opposition in his opening remarks suggested that we had waited too long. He suggested that the McKellar case was such that we should have brought in legislation earlier. I thought the legislation was introduced as the result of the High Court decision in the McKellar case. 
Let me refer to a few remarks of the Leader of the Opposition. He, and all honourable members opposite who have spoken thus far, seem to have great concern and fear about the proposed amendment to section 19 purely and simply because of its reference to 5000 square kilometres. Suggestions have been made throughout this debate that the legislation of Labor's Minister for Administrative Services,  Mr Daly,  was fair and just and that it gave representation on the basis of one vote one value. Surely the basis of the legislation as it was proposed was that electoral divisions should be considered on the basis of people, be they eligible to vote, be they babies, or be they aliens. I do not see how members of the Opposition can stand here today and justify that as being equality, and on the other hand suggest that an electorate like Kalgoorlie, which is 2.2 million square kilometres, does not have some true representation in this House as against an electorate like Grayndler, to which reference has been made. I represent an inner city electorate of Sydney, the electorate of Evans. There are 63 000 persons enrolled in my division but there are 101 000 residents. I represent the 101 000, whether they are shown on the electoral roll or not. But I do not for one moment suggest that I would like to move out of that area into 2.2 million square kilometres and find I had the same opportunity. I am sure that the people in Kalgoorlie would not get the same service from my office or indeed from me. 
I think that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter),  my colleague, is a fine hard working member. He has proved that he will be a member of this House for a long time to come. The basis of this electoral legislation is the heart of the democratic process. It can be effective and democratic only if it ensures a fair, open and representative system which translates the genuine wishes of electors into parliamentary voices. Right here and now, I state clearly that the amendments proposed in this Bill are such that the process will be democratic. I think it is necessary to remind honourable members opposite of the meaning of the word 'democratic'. I should like to quote an interpretation of democracy': 
A system of government in which political power is exercised by the people. 
That means individualism, liberty, equality. Perhaps we could go a step further and listen to what people over the years have had to say about democracy. Going back to the 4th Century BC: 
Democracy is the form of government in which the free are rulers. 
That was Aristotle. 
Democracy is a superior form of government, because it is based on a respect for man as a reasonable being. 
That was John F. Kennedy in 1 940. 
The people's government made for the people, made by the people and answerable to the people. 
That was Daniel Webster in 1795. Surely this legislation which has been brought forth is in fact democratic. 
Democracy is the healthful life-blood which circulates through the veins and arteries, which supports the system, but which ought never to appear externally, and as the mere blood itself. 
That was Coleridge in 1830. Perhaps I could go now to the most famous quotation of all in respect of democracy: 
Government of the people, by the people, ibr the people. 
That was Abraham Lincoln. 
You did not know. That just proves that the Opposition has members in this House who represent their electors and who do not really know that that was said by Abraham Lincoln, one of the finest statesmen of the last few hundred years. 
We always like Opposition members to be here at odd times to give them a bit of elementary history. Some people would argue that our system is not representative because it does not embody for this House proportional or other forms of representation. All I can say to that is that our system is democratic and, in this Jubilee year, might I say that I hope it will endure as a system of consititutional monarchy for a long time. But it will survive only if we maintain and enhance its democratic values at a time when democratic values and the things which accompany them such as human rights and civil liberties are disappearing extremely quickly around the globe. From memory, only about 25 of the 140-odd individual independent nations of the world are exceptionally democratic with independent parliaments and with judiciaries. There are 115 or so regimes which need a strong democratic example such as we have in Australia. This Bill helps to give to this country a strong democratic representation in this place. Essentially, our system is a blend of the single constituency preferential 2-party system in the House of Representatives and of proportional representation in the Senate. That gives the people of this country the opportunity to have two bites at the cherry, or rather to enjoy the whole cherry. 
The other aspect which is subject to controversy is the question of preferential voting, which thankfully is still embodied in the main Act. My attitude to it is that such a scheme maximises opportunities in the selection of candidates. The simplest way of explaining it is to say that under preferential voting, where the choice is wide, the scaling of priorities among candidates by citizens is a most natural selection, like everything else we do. For the benefit of Opposition members, I point out that in the morning we get up and choose our clothes. Some members might have the opportunity to go to their stores to pick out some bright clothes in which to come to this House. But we have a choice. It has been said about this legislation that there is going to be a 7 year lapse between redistributions. Surely the legislation itself ensures that there will be a review each year based upon population. In his second reading speech the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  said: 
In the twelfth month of every Parliament, the Chief Australian Electoral Officer, on the basis of the latest available population statistics which he is to obtain from the Australian Statistician, will make a determination as to the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen for each State and forward that determination to the Minister. 
How can it be argued, as the Opposition has done constantly in the debate thus far, that there will be a redistribution only every 7 years? I do not see for one moment how any member of this House or any member of the public, for that matter, could understand that. Surely it is within the Act itself. Each and every year, based upon population, the Chief Australian Electoral Officer will look at the situation. That does not necessarily guarantee that there will be a distribution, and I am sure I would not like to be subjected to that. However, if there is substantial movement within the population in that 12 months period there will be a redistribution. That will then make this House contemporary and in tune with population shifts. In regard to population shifts, the Borrie report, which was published recently, indicates a slowing down in our population growth, and therefore the number of electors, excluding migrants, will be reduced. There will still be significant population shifts, of course. The Borrie report and the latest census do not mean less need for regular redistributions because of urban shifts within cities. As evidence of that we have to look only at the inner city of Sydney, the far western suburbs and other growth areas, although that process is now in doubt because the trend is to return to urban areas. I know that in my own electorate there is a changing pattern, with people coming in and going out. Each and every year there would be a change, with some 10 000 to 15 000 people coming in and going out. 
Following the McKinlay and McKellar cases, a new provision has been inserted in this legislation, and again I wish to quote the Minister's words:  if a State has not been divided into the appropriate number of divisions which accords with the determined representation entitlement, that ordinary general election Wu be conducted 'at large' for that State. 
This means that the State will be regarded as one division and the members, to the number as determined, will be elected for that one division. 
I have presumed that as the words 'at large' do not apply in extraordinary or double dissolution elections, elections cannot be contrived to take advantage of proportional representation but I do believe the 'at large' provision ought now to be more clearly denned. 
The Minister in introducing the legislation indicated that there should be a review of the guidelines which the Distribution Commissioners are required to take into account in their consideration of proposed distributions. I would like to suggest to the Minister that during this inquiry examination should be made of the question of making it mandatory for the position of Distribution Commissioner to be held by persons from the judiciary. Although it is not necessarily comparing like with like there is similarity between this idea and the way parliamentarians' salaries are now determined by an independent tribunal. That is one case. There can then be a sense of complete independence about it. Similarly, with judicial appointments, complete independence would seem to have been achieved. 
The charge levelled by the Opposition throughout this debate basically has been that the amendments have been designed for the benefit of the National Country Party and that the legislation is politically inspired. That is complete and utter rot. 
I do not know about the honourable member. He is probably concerned about his own pre-selection and I would not blame him for that because the seat of Wills is one that a few people would like to get their hands on. 
-I take issue with the honourable member for Wills at least. The members of my Party are not trying to take my seat from me but nevertheless I am sure that as the honourable member has survived for a long time in his own Party he can survive a bit longer. In regard to the introduction of the Bill and the claim that it has been politically inspired, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  went back through history to illustrate that the number of redistributions over the years has been rather small. So the proposal by the Opposition in its Bill to have a redistribution every 3 years- under our Bill there will be a redistribution every 7 years- would have forced on the Australian people unnecessary wasteful redistributions. The honourable member for Griffith said that as a member he would not know where he was going. He said that his constituents would not know from year to year who their member was. Consequently the Opposition's proposals would have had only political implications because they sought to have boundary changes to give them some political advantage. 
I would like to refer again to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. Basically he said that in 1974 the Labor Party had proposed a Bill which provided that all people should have equal representation by the creation of a division that had a tolerance of no more or less than 10 per cent of the quota. Where has our Bill gone wrong in that respect? Surely that is the very provision that the Leader of the Opposition wanted to have incorporated in the Act in 1975. This Bill before the House does provide for a tolerance of no more or less than 10 per cent of the quota. So much for his argument. Is it that the intention of the Opposition in opposing this Bill is purely and simply one of political motivation to try to drive a wedge between the National Country Party and the Liberal Party? Is that the reason for opposing the Bill? I believe that the Opposition has no more concern for the people of Australia and their representation by members in this House than for putting the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  out of this House without a job. 
The previous  speaker  the honourable member for Burke said that the electorate of Kalgoorlie is not a difficult area to service. He compared it with the seat of Grayndler. I would like just to go back and compare the electorate of Evans with the electorate of Kalgoorlie. Each and every year in my electorate there are something like 5000 naturalisations. They spread out of my electorate. I have some 600 social engagements. My correspondence runs into tens of thousands of letters. I am able to service my area from 2 offices situated in my electorate which encompasses roughly 25 square miles. How could the honourable member for Burke suggest that I could move out of my area into Kalgoorlie and service it in the same manner as I do now? The electorate of Kalgoorlie would have the same population as the electorate of Evans, not necessarily the same number of enrolled electors but the same population. There are problems there but not because of a bowing to pressure as charged by the honourable member for Burke and, I think, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  There is no bowing to pressure from the National Country Party. It is a matter of reality and sanity that we must give representation to the people of Australia. 
This Bill is urgently needed. It is urgently needed to ensure that the people are given proper and correct representation. It is urgently needed to ensure that there are not wanton redistributions for political purposes each and every 3 years. This Bill is badly needed to correct the matters that were recently found to be invalid by the High Court. I support the Bill and I commend it to the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the average enrolment for each form at each of the government and non-government schools in the Electoral Division of Evans during 1976. 
What were the corresponding figures for 1975. 
If estimates are available, what are the corresponding figures for the triennium 1977-79 for which the Minister announced funding on 4 November 1976. 
-The parliamentary system that we have in this country is one of particular pride and privilege to every member who serves in this House. But to see the parliamentary system that has been with us since Federation abused and dragged through the mud constantly and continuously brings contempt upon the House. We, as members of this House, should hang our heads in shame that we allow a colleague to get up in this House not once, not twice, but constantly and use parliamentary privilege to grind defenceless men into the ground. Tonight the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has chosen to abuse an honourable and a distinguished member of the legal profession,  Mr Laurence  Gruzman, Q.C, a man whom I have never met. I do not know him other than by name. The honourable member for 
Hunter has chosen to use the privilege of Parliament to put this man before the public as being some sort of criminal. 
As I said at the outset, Parliament should be used for debates on matters of importance to this nation. I believe that debasing the name of a learned Queen's Counsel is not correct. 
House adjourned at 11.3 p.m. 
I support the motion of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  concerning the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen. The privilege of honourable members of both Houses of this Parliament and of the people of Australia in seeing  Her  Majesty and  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh on their visit to Australia is something that I will long remember and I am sure all people will long remember. We in this country- and in particular, I as a member of this House- are pleased to support the system of a constitutional monarchy. I believe it is a system that will continue forever. Those who tend to knock the system in favour of a republican era will fail dismally. I have great pleasure in supporting the motion of the honourable member for Braddon. I oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
I was always of the opinion that when an amendment was moved to a motion a substantive case would be put forward to support the amendment. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who moved the amendment here today did not put forward one ounce of support for his amendment. There was nothing to support the amendment. I recollect that in 1975 when the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  brought forward his Budget the then Leader of the Opposition and now Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in opposing that Budget, put forward for the first time in many years an alternative, a proposal that could be enacted. But in this weak amendment nothing of a substantive nature has been put forward. There have been just words upon words. 
It is, as the honourable member for Bowman interjects, sheer and utter hogwash. In moving the amendment the honourable member for Adelaide seems to have been a little confused. For example, when he spoke to the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party on 27 February this year he called for the control of profits amongst other things and he even suggested that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission could have some justification for passing on an increase of less than 6 per cent of the consumer price index increase. He was prepared to say that outside, to the Victorian branch of the ALP, yet he came into this House and took another tack. I suggest that the honourable member for Adelaide and other honourable members opposite who have spoken thus far in this debate have had but one thing in mind, and that is the same theory, the same philosophy that guided them, or misguided them, through 3 years of government. That was the increase in public sector spending, the screwing down of the private sector, which just happens to employ 70 per cent of the work force of this country, and additionally the reduction in profits. 
I am sure that the great economists on the Opposition benches would at least agree with one thing, that profits pay wages. No company in this country, no private employer, is prepared to put money, time and effort into expansion and development if he is not going to get a fair return and a reasonable profit. I am not supporting the concept of unreasonable, excessively high profits. If the employer is not going to get a fair return on his investment he will not invest. When that occurs, when we go from a profit situation into a loss situation, the result is a wind down in that industry, a closure or a complete lock-out of the employees. During the reign of the Labor Government we saw constantly measures that were taken to increase spending. The printing press did roll forth and we had massive increases in expenditure. We had an increase of 75 per cent in one year. What did that do? Money does not grow on trees, unless of course a little bit of grafting goes with it. If the cake is to be divided up, the ingredients must be put in and the cake must be cut up into portions and served out. When the cake is gone, that is it. The Government cannot bake another quarter of a cake. That is exactly what the previous Government tried to do in 3 years. It tried to spend more and more without getting in the necessary revenue. It turned the tap on fully and could not turn it off. We inherited the mess. It was not just a question of gently turning the tap. It was not even a question of getting a wrench because a wrench would have pulled the tap right off the water pipe. The massive expenditure by the previous Administration cannot be stopped. 
The Budget of 1976-77 at least made an attempt to restrain the deficit. In February 1976 Treasury indicated that, had Labor remained in office, the true deficit would have been $4,800m, not the $2, 800m that was indicated in the then Treasurer's Budget of 1975-76. What would have happened? Where would the money have come from to meet the deficit? Would inflation have reduced itself? Would it have been achieved by the waving of some magic wand? Of course it would not. It was a mess that was brought about by 2 things- an explosion of the expenditure by the Government to the extent of 75 per cent and an increase in the wages Bill in that period of about 60 per cent. I do not think there is any credibility in any member of the Opposition saying in this House what they would do, because their record is a proven record. They have failed at every attempt, with 3 Treasurers, to make a success of the economy. What we have heard in every single speech in this debate from members of the Opposition has been back tracking to the same silly philosophy that they had in the 3 years that they were in office. 
I ask the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  who will follow me whether he would care to explain how as a government they would increase dramatically spending on education, social welfare, housing, local government, and grants to the States, and how they would give indirect and direct tax cuts. I ask him to explain how they could do that and still come up with some sort of sane budget balance. I challenge the Opposition and I challenge the honourable member who follows me to spell out his policy. Perhaps the honourable member for Oxley will return to the chamber and spell out in clear detail how he sees the economy recovering. Maybe I can be taught a few things. I am sure that the honourable member who is about to follow me could teach me a few things. In his speech earlier the honourable member for Oxley constantly talked about the crack-down on expenditure. I ask honourable members opposite: 'Why not?' Do we want this country to go completely and utterly bankrupt? We could appoint a receiver. Companies that have collapsed because of economic mismanagement have a receiver appointed. Again I challenge the 
Opposition to give us the answers. If the honourable member Oxley has such a tremendous secret weapon let us hear about it. He should spell it out clearly for the people of Australia. Let the Government have the secret weapon and save the economy. There is no secret weapon and we are not likely to see it. 
I make one final point on the years of gloom and the prophets of doom. In Labor's last year of office we had decline in company profits of 7 per cent and we had an increase in the wages spiral of 28 per cent. That is notwithstanding that Labor turned the press to full speed, to total production, and said: 'Let us go. Let us not worry where the money is coming from. ' Had they been in office for two more years the economic mess of this country, the inflation rate in this country and the unemployment rate in this country would have been the figures which the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  had predicted, of 700 000 people out of work and an inflation rate of about 30 per cent. But the Opposition need not worry about that. The people will never be fooled again. The Opposition has no economic policy and no economic manager. The honourable member for Oxley is probably nervous about taking over the leadership of the Labor Party as well he might be. Then he will know that the screws are on. Let us look at what the Government has done. I do not recollect having heard anything from the Opposition, certainly as regards praise, for the family allowances that were introduced by the Government in the Budget. 
Of course it is. This is a measure that the Opposition would have liked to have introduced itself. I do not have any recollection of any mention being made of the indexation of taxation. 
The Opposition was not prepared to introduce indexation of taxation. Trade unions asked for it and I am sure that honourable members on this side of the chamber will recollect the praise that the Government received from the trade union movement as a whole when taxation indexation was introduced. What will indexation mean next year? How much will it cost the Government? 
The odds are increasing a little but none the less it is a real and positive measure in taxation reform. Taxation reform was supposedly the great masterpiece of the honourable member for Oxley. I ask my colleagues on this side of the House whether they recollect that masterpiece. What about the pensioners and their provisional taxation? 
Yes, the Opposition fixed the pensioners. The honourable member for Oxley did such a magnificant job that in my electorate I have received some 50 or 60 written complaints, to say nothing of verbal complaints. The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  has received one hundred or more, to say nothing of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  concerning the Hayden tax scheme- the brainstorm. 
It was a rip-off of the aged and infirm, those people who could ill afford to pay for the tax burden. I am sure that the Government is giving serious consideration to putting some sort of a stop to the rip-off that was brought about as a result of the Hayden Budget. I would like the pensioners of Australia to know, if they do not already know, that the reason that their tax bill this year is the highest it has ever been is not because of Government policy but because of Labor policy in the Budget introduced in 1 975 by the Honourable member for Oxley, the aspirant to the position of Leader of the Opposition. He will probably get it too. 
I am quite sure that when the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  speaks in this debate he will do the same. He will probably send everyone to sleep. There has been a lot of talk about what the Labor Party would do as regards the means test for aged pensioners. My colleague, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  has raised this matter constantly. I seem to recollect that in 1972, in the policy speech of the Labor Party, there was a distinct and clear promise to abolish the means test. 
It was certainly a big joke because in 1974, without having done one solitary thing until that time, the Labor Party echoed the same policy for the abolition of the means test. What measures did the former Labor Government take? I will be honest and tell the House that it was prepared to lower the age, for the assessment of means, from 70 years to 69 years and that is all. In the last Budget, this Government took the first step towards the abolition of the means test and it is now an income test. Is that unfair or unjust? Surely, if an aged person of say, 65 to 71 years has a house and $25,000 in the bank or $2,000 in the bank or owns a car, he should not be penalised. These people have paid their taxes and they should be entitled to the pension. That is the measure that has been introduced by the Government. These people are entitled to receive the pension. They are not deprived of the pension because they have money in the bank but I am quite sure that the Opposition would seek to change that. 
My colleague the honourable member for La Trobe interjects. I believe that the Labor Party is against just about every measure designed to help those who cannot help themselves. Despite the rantings and ravings of the Opposition that its policy is to help the elderly, I believe that the aged persons in this country have been used constantly as a political football by honourable members opposite. The Labor Government threw fear into them before the 1975 election. I remember the fear tactics that were used, suggesting that this Government would reduce pensions and cut back their true income. I do not know any pensioner who will complain about the increase of $3.80 a week in the single rate that will be payable on the first pay period in May. I have not heard any complaints from the Opposition about the pension rates that are being paid by this Government but I am quite sure that given the opportunity it would use fear and scare tactics all over again. 
As the honourable member says, the silence of the Opposition is deafening. I conclude by saying that the Government, in the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen, indicated the concern that it feels for the people of Australia. It is concerned that business should return to sound and reasonable profits. It is concerned that unemployment should be reduced. Honourable members should make no mistake about the unemployment situation. Since this Government came to office on 13 December 1975 there has been - 
The honourable member will be delighted to know the percentage increase in unemployment. When the Labor Government came to office unemployment went from 137 000 to 246 000. The percentage increase was not miniscule. When the Labor Government went out of office the number out of work was 300 000. The former Labor Government can take the credit for that increase because it created it and it can take the credit for the increase in the inflation rate from 4 per cent to 16 per cent. This Government is a concerned government. The prosperity of the Australian people depends on the strength of Australia's productive private sector and on its manufacturing, mining and rural industries. The Government is concerned to ensure that these sectors continue to employ people. The Opposition is not concerned about these sectors because, quite simply, it is opposed to business, the private sector and mining. It is opposed to anything except the printing of money. I support the motion and I oppose the amendment. 
I wish to raise tonight a serious situation concerning the issue of human rights and what I can only assume to be the most unsatisfactory nature of diplomatic representation by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in this country. I have been approached on a number of occasions by people seeking to assist Jewish citizens in the Soviet Union. Many of these people fear for the safety and/or release of friends and relatives and there seems to be some substantial evidence that torture and illegal captivity of Jewish people have been features of the Soviet political system. 
On 23 December last I wrote to Ambassador Basov, Soviet Ambassador in Australia, seeking answers to some specific questions which has been put to me by Rabbi Sultanik of Doncaster, Victoria. Those questions were: 
What are the general rights of national groups in the Soviet Union. 
How does this compare with the rights or the Jewish community? 
Why are the Jews classified as a national group? 
Why are Jews not allowed to study and publish Hebrew and Yiddish? 
Why are there no Hebrew day schools and religious schools? 
How many Churches and Mosques are there in the Soviet Union? 
How does that compare proportionately to the number ofSynagogues? 
Why has it been forbidden for Jews to make religious artifacts in the Soviet Union? 
Why has not the Soviet Union honoured the Helsinki Pact with reference to freedom of immigration? 
As the honourable member interjects, they do not honour anything. On 3 January I received a 4-line reply from  Mr L.  Raina, First 
Secretary at the Soviet Embassy enclosing 5 booklets, some of which were years old. I would classify them as ancient. I carefully read these documents and the questions raised by Rabbi Sultanik were not properly or completely answered in them. On 10 February I again contacted the Ambassador and said in part: 
I have noted the information contained in these documents, however I would still be grateful for specific answers to the individual questions I raised with you in my letter of 23 December 1976. 1 then received another reply from the Soviet Embassy of 1 7 February- this time with 6 lineswhich failed to deal with my questions in any serious way whatever. Can we reach any other conclusion than that this represents contempt for the Australian Parliament by an ambassadorial representative? 
This is a most disappointing situation that diplomatic representatives in this country either refuse to refer letters from Australian parliamentarians to their own governments for reply or, because of incompetence, themselves fail to answer when they are able. It would hardly be stretching it to describe this treatment of the Australian Parliament as being most discourteous and lacking any element of the co-operative spirit underpinning the Helsinki Pact about which the Soviet Union has been so sanctimonious lately in respect of  President  Carter. The issue of human rights in the Soviet Union and in other countries has concerned me and I have placed a question on notice for the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  seeking information on the number of political prisoners in every country on which information can be obtained and I eagerly await that reply. 
To return to the Soviet Union, I have received on a regular basis a document called  Survey.  This is published, so I have discovered, by that neutral and objective body the International Research and Information Association which is a cover for the Trades Hall in Sydney. Their last issue contained an address for subscription renewals and- surprise, surprise- the address was Box 9, Trades Hall, Goulburn Street, Sydney. 
Yes, that is a surprise. I have just received the March 1977 issue of  Survey,  volume 2 number 12, which has as a standard subheading on all issues, the following words: 'A monthly digest of trends in the Soviet Union and other socialist countries.' On the front page of this special issue under the heading 'Human Rights and Socialism' the statement is made that in the Soviet Union there is 'the right to freedom of religion', which of course stands most peculiarly alongside the correspondence I have just mentioned from the Soviet Embassy. Even more remarkable is another sentence on the front page which reads: 
We consider it urgent in the interests of people in the West, including Australia, to be given more basic information on this question. 
How can we when the Soviet Ambassador declines to help? May I suggest to one  Mr W.  J. Brown, who is the Managing Editor of  Survey's  editorial board that he might use his good offices to persuade the Soviet Embassy to respond to my concern and particularly my letters of 23 December and 10 February. 
Finally, it seems to me that the Soviet Union is jeopardising detente and world peace and is curiously supersensitive on the issue of human rights when it complains so bitterly about  President  Carter's comments on Soviet dissidents. I agree with him totally. The evidence is there and it is up to the Soviet Union to prove otherwise. As far as this Parliament is concerned, Ambassador Basov has a great deal of work to do. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
What is the latest estimate by the United Nations of the number of political prisoners who are being detained by each nation for which the United Nations has records. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on15 March 1977: 
1 ) Did  Mr Sam  Vassililou of the Tiki Fashion Company in Sydney, which is located five minutes from Central Station, register15 positions for machinists with the Leichhardt and City Offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service in mid-February offering weekly wages of between $ 1 20 and $180. 
Can he say whether  Mr Vassililou  also advertised the positions in Sydney 's ethnic press and in the  Sydney Morning Herald. 
Can he also say whether, up to the beginning of March in response to these employment opportunities,  Mr Vassililou  received only 1 reply from an untrained young lady who  Mr Vassililou  offered to train but who did not reappear to start work even though she indicated she would do so. 
Can the Commonwealth Employment Service give any reasons for these employment opportunities not being taken up. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence and preface it by drawing to the Minister's attention 2 items on the radio program  AM  this week concerning 2 American magazines. One magazine called  Assassin- The Secret World of the Killer Elite,  asks readers to work out how they would kill the American President and gives instructions and ingredients for the construction of a nuclear bomb. The other is a do-it-yourself urban guerrilla book. I ask the Minister: If the life of an Australian Prime Minister, political leader or head of State was in danger from assassins, if an Australian Prime Minister, political leader or head of state - 
-At the outset, I must say that I was rather surprised that the Leader of the Opposition took up time in a Grievance Day debate to make a statement. Grievance Day has been reserved traditionally for back benchers. However, that was his decision. I wish to bring to the attention of the House a rip-off situation involving newly arrived settlers in Australia and the sale of homes on terms contracts. Terms contracts allow a purchaser to pay a deposit, usually 10 per cent, and make weekly repayments which in the main are interest on the balance of purchase price, with settlement taking place some time later, usually after one year. The purchaser is virtually a tenant of the vendor. I believe it involves discrimination in the sense that many companies, particularly those to which I shall refer shortly, who sell houses on terms contracts appear to sell primarily to migrants. My electorate of Evans has a migrant population of approximately 30 000 people, which represents about 30 per cent of the residents. 
Since my election a large number of new settlers have made various complaints to me regarding the purchase of homes on terms contracts. One such occurrence, which incidentally did not involve an Evans constituent, happened in March 1976. 1 received a telephone call from the Marrickville Community Aid Office asking whether I would see a constituent of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam),  who was unavailable at the time. I agreed, and one hour later I interviewed a very distressed lady, a  Mrs V.  Philippidou of Warren Road, Marrickville. I can assure the House that to say she was distressed is an understatement as she cried during the whole interview. I hasten to add that she left my office happy- happy in the hope that I would solve her problem, which fortunately for her I did several months later. I now wish to elaborate on  Mrs Philippidou  's case. She purchased a home for $30,000 on 7 March 1974 in conjunction with her mother. The home was purchased on a terms contract from Compur Pty Ltd of 363 Pitt Street, Sydney.  Mrs Philippidou  paid a $3,000 cash deposit and undertook to pay interest at 12 per cent per annum flat on the outstanding $27,000, provided that if she paid her weekly instalment within 7 days of the due date interest would be 1 1 per cent per annum. She had since 25 March 1974, the date repayments commenced, paid $65 a week, being $58 interest and $7 principal. 
-$58 a week interest and $7 principal. 
It is scandalous. Not only did she pay on the due day each week but she would constantly pay an extra week, just in case she was unable to get to Compur's office. Frankly, she was always several weeks in advance. 
I now detail some other conditions in the terms contract by which  Mrs Philippidou  had to abide. Clause 28 states: 
Notwithstanding anything herein contained or implied, the Vendor shall have the right to call upon the Purchaser to pay the balance of purchase monies and interest thereon ... by giving to the Purchaser ninety (90) days notice in writing . . . provided however that no such notice may be given before the expiration of thirty three (33)monthsfromthedateofthis Agreement . . . 
Clause 16 states: 
If the Purchaser defaults in the observance or performance of any obligation imposed on him under or by virtue of this Agreement the deposit paid by him hereunder, except so much of it as exceeds 10 per cent of the purchase price, shall be forfeited to the Vendor who shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement . . . 
Clause 19 states: 
Where the balance of the purchase price is payable by instalments before transfer of title: 
If default by the Purchaser in payment of any instalment of the purchase price or interest hereunder shall continue for four weeks (in this respect time being of the essence) the balance of the purchase price then owing with accrued interest shall immediately without notice to the Purchaser become due and payable irrespective of the transfer of title; . . . 
The First Schedule states: . . . After twelve (12) months from the date hereof the Purchaser shall have the right at any time to pay the whole balance of the purchase money outstanding with interest thereon to the date of payment together with interest thereon for a further period of thirteen ( 13) weeks . . . 
Those and other conditions too numerous to mention clearly show that the vendor has all the benefit, with little or no protection for the purchaser. 
Under those conditions, had  Mrs Philippidou  not been able to obtain a loan to settle before 33 months had elapsed, she stood to lose all the interest she had paid as well as the deposit. On several occasions  Mrs Philippidou,  in an endeavour to settle this contract, had applied for and was refused finance from the banking and general finance institutions. When she came to see me she had only 9 months left in which to raise $27,000. Thinking that Compur Pty Ltd might extend the contract if she could not settle, she went to their office in Pitt Street to discuss her problem. She wasted her time, as she was told they could guarantee nothing and she would just have to keep trying to borrow the money. What a great situation. There she was, having paid $3,000 deposit, $6,700 in interest and principal during the previous 2 years, plus $2,500 on home improvements, and she had no guarantee that in 12 months' time there would be anything to show for it. I cannot say that Compur Pty Ltd would have terminated the contract in the event of finance not being arranged by  Mrs Philippidou,  but I do know that they could have been more helpful and reassuring to her. 
Fortunately, I was able to arrange a loan from a trading bank which enabled settlement to take place on 27 August 1976. It will interest honourable members to know the details of settlement, and I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting them out. 
Will the Prime Minister hold an inquiry into the alleged leakage of a Foreign Affairs document marked 'SECRET AUSTEO' as reported in this morning's  Canberra Times? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
This House notes that  Mr Viktor  Reinberg, a Russian dissident, is presently in Australia on a lecture tour; 
This House notes that  Mr Viktor  Reinberg participated in a demonstration in the Red Square Moscow in August 1 968 to protest against the invasion of Czechoslovakia by the Soviet Armed Forces; 
This House notes for his participation in the 1968 Red Square- 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 March 1977: 
According to the latest available information, how many political prisoners are known, or thought, by the United Nations to be detained in (a) each one of its 147 member states and (b) each of the non-member states. 
Does the Australian Government accept the United Nations figures; if so, why. 
If not, what other details of the numbers of political prisoners are available and what is the source of these figures. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 238-  Hansard,  22 March 1977, page 47 1 -relating to a request to State Governments to provide information in relation to the priority of individual projects to be approved under the $4m grants for senior citizens centres in 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79, can the Minister say why the New South Wales Government has failed to answer the request of 8 September 1976. 
-The matter of public importance now under discussion is weakly worded. Thus far members of the Opposition have put forward a great argument on the law. They have restricted their remarks to the judgment in the Karen Green case. But the terms of the matter of public importance go a bit further than that. In part they state: 
. disregard for the young people in the payment of unemployment benefits to schoolleavers. 
The honourable member for Melbourne says: 'Hear, hear'. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when the Karen Green case was announced, in part said: 
. I urged young men and women to continue to assert their right to apply for benefits to which they were entitled by law. 
He did not say anything about the moral aspect. He did not say anything about cost. He did not say anything about the sociological problems. He made the specific point that he urged young people to do something at law without regard to the consequence of what that would mean to the young people themselves or to this country. I should like to say a little on that aspect of the matter. 
At the moment the unemployment benefit paid to young people in the 16 to 18 year old bracket is $36 a week. I ask honourable members to consider the implications of carrying out Labor's stated policy which was just confirmed by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  The policy is that the unemployment benefit should be paid to all school leavers. This policy has been endorsed by the Labor Caucus. It has been endorsed by the Leader of the Opposition- the one who was only barely elected again today to that position. He has said that school leavers should be given the unemployment benefit. Do honourable members opposite, including the honourable member for Melbourne, say that a 17-year old child who leaves school without having determined whether he is going to work or whether he wants to work should receive $36 a week? Would honourable members opposite like to multiply that amount by about 3000 and say 'yes'? 
The honourable member for Melbourne will not confirm what his Party policy is but in fact that is what it is- school leavers would get a $36 a week paid vacation. Apparently we have a new social era. The policy of the Labor Government which came into office in 1972-73 was aimed at changing the whole social attitude and aspects of the Australian way of life. This policy is now being changed again. 
As my colleague says, it was disastrous. We are now asked to look at a proposition for school leavers to have a paid vacation. I state very clearly and very precisely that I do not now nor will I in the future support paid vacation leave for school leavers. I shall look at a few more statistics. The claims for unemployment benefits for school leavers in the period 7 January to 22 April 1977 numbered 62 820. Claims granted in that period numbered 38 537 leaving a balance of 24 283. 1 ask: Where did the balance of 24 283 go? I suggest that a great proportion went back to school and that a great proportion took gainful employment. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne interjects that there is no evidence. What evidence does he have that those people would have taken a job? What evidence does he and the Leader of the Opposition have that, had those people been paid unemployment benefits at the date they left school, that they would have gone back to work. 
There is no evidence. I suggest in the strongest possible terms that studies in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries, where money is given for no gainful work, demonstrate without any shadow of a doubt that there are social problems and that in the years to come they will be frightening in their magnitude. The honourable member for Melbourne is saying that we do not want young people to work. When I left school, I sought a position. I had a break for four or five weeks having completed a long time at school. Then I decided to seek a job. I did not ask someone to give me money while I searched around for that position. Notwithstanding, if the decision of an applicant is that he should take employment after three or four weeks because of hardship or on the ground of difficulty at home, provision already exists in the Act for him to be considered for special benefits. The Minister for Social Security has stated clearly and constantly in the Senate the Government's policy in regard to the payment of unemployment benefit. In another place on 30 May, in answer to a question, she stated: 
I have stated repeatedly that last March the Government announced a policy decision with regard to the payment of the unemployment benefit. Its decision was to the effect that the benefit would not be paid automatically to school leavers. 
Further on she stated:   the policy of the previous Administration was that the unemployment benefit would be paid to everyone who could not find a job of his own choice. 
That was automatic. Further in the answer the Minister stated: 
I have said further that the Director-General makes the determinations with regard to eligibility. I find no inconsistency between that and the proposition which  Senator Wheeldon  has put for the first time in this Senate- namely, that there is a Government policy and that the determinations are made by the Director-General- as that is precisely the point that I have been trying to make since this matter arose. 
The Minister has said that clearly. There is the Government policy. It is up to the DirectorGeneral to clearly make the determination. When the Government's policy was announced last year, provision was stated clearly for the Director-General of Social Services, under section 124 of the Social Services Act, to have the discretion to pay a special benefit because of age, physical or mental disability or domestic circumstances or for any other reason, where a person is unable to earn sufficient money for himself or his dependents, if any. The rate of that special benefit is equivalent to the rate of unemployment benefit. Surely this is fair and just. We are giving the young people the opportunity, if there is hardship, to claim a special benefit. Surely it is fair for Australians to feel that when people leave school they must make some reasonable effort to obtain work. The Opposition has argued today, and it has argued constantly, that because somebody goes out and looks for employment for 7 days, 10 days, 14 days or a month, that person has made every effort. Karen Green was given the opportunity to state a case to the Director-General of Social Services for special consideration. 
I shall read from the judgment in the case of Karen Green. It states: 
The plaintiff was offered the opportunity of showing that hers was a special case but she failed to take it, by her failure accepting the view that she had not then satisfied the Director-General. 
Karen Green was given the opportunity and she did not avail herself of it to claim that she had a special case. In raising this matter of public importance today the Opposition, by the nature of the debate, has tried to make political capital out of human misery and the suffering of the young. The honourable member for Melbourne nods his head in agreement. I would like him to listen and perhaps he will agree with my proposition. As at 31 December 1976, 95 per cent of school leavers from the previous year had obtained gainful employment. Under the policy of the previous Government of paying everyone who left school I would not predict that 95 per cent would have obtained gainful employment. Today over 80 per cent of last years school leavers have found employment. 
When this Government came to office in December 1975 it found that, as at November 1975, 60 249 school leavers were unemployed and 152 000 people under the age of 21 years of age were unemployed. The comparable figures as at April this year are 32 600 and 127 352. The reason for this improvement is that under this Government's policy we have, in fact, made an effort to see that people find gainful employment. It is not the old story of the Australian Labor Party which gave out money and people did not have to find work. There are social problems. There are moral problems. Not one press statement from the Leader of the Opposition or the Labor Party spokesman on social security or from honourable members opposite has done anything in regard to those questions. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article on page 44 of the  Bulletin  of 1 2 March 1 977 concerning the treatment of political prisoners in the Soviet Union. 
If so, can he say whether there is any substance in the allegations in the article that Vladimir Borisov has been given the 'dry wrapper' treatment. 
Can he also say whether there is any evidence that the dry wrapper' treatment has been used on other political prisoners; if so, will he detail the prisoners subjected to the treatment and, if possible, give some idea of the period over which the torture was given. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Have the Australian Broadcasting Commission Channel 2 in Sydney and the ABC Channels in other cities ceased transmission much earlier each evening during recent months than other channels. 
2 ) If so, and if the ABC is keen to be an active competitor, why has it abandoned this period of evening viewing. 
What are the estimates of audience sizes at this hour of night. 
Would it be considered a suitable time for some of the more specialised areas of programs. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on IS March 1977: 
How many- 
visitors in Australia; and 
persons outside Australia 
applied for; and 
received permanent residence in each of the years 1971 to 1976 inclusive. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) What was the enrolment for each electoral division as at (a) 30 June 1971 and (b) the 1976 Census. 
) What percentage increase or decrease do each of these 1976 figures represent over the 1 97 1 figures. 
What was the total population of each electoral division as at (a) 30 June 1971 and (b) the 1976 Census. 
What percentage increase or decrease do each of these 1976 figures represent over the 1 97 1 figures. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May 1 977: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to my question No. 1639  (Hansard,  22 February 1977, page 327), will he now provide 1 976 census figures for the number of people in each of the ethnic groups known to reside in the electoral division of Evans. 
What percentage of the persons in each group referred to in part ( 1 ) is estimated or known to have taken Australian citizenship. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs the following question, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Can he say how many refugees from South Vietnam were accepted as immigrants by (a) Australia, (b) Canada, (c) the United States of America and (d) any other country since April 1975. 
What has been (a) total value and (b) form of foreign aid to Vietnam from (i) Australia, (ii) Canada, (iii) United States of America and (iv) any other  country which has  accepted South Vietnamese refugees and given aid since April 1975, and (c) what percentages of their total foreign budgets did their individual contributions to Vietnam represent. 
What has been (a) total value of foreign aid to Vietnam, (b) form of foreign aid to Vietnam and (c) percentage total of the foreign aid budget since April 1975, for each of the countries not mentioned above which participated in the Vietnam conflict with armed servicemen. 
For each country that has accepted South Vietnamese refugees, what total number and percentages of its emigrants have been from South Vietnam since April 1975. 
What plans does the Government have for relocating South Vietnamese emigrants in Australia in the future. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs the following question, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) What was Australia 's population as at 1 April 1 975. 
Can he say how many refugees from South Vietnam were accepted as immigrants by (a) Australia, (b) Canada, (c) the United States of America, and (d ) any other country. 
What has been (a) total value and (b) form of foreign aid to Vietnam from (i) Australia, (ii) Canada, (iii) the U!S. and (iv) any other country which has accepted South Vietnamese refugees and given aid since April 1975. 
For each country that has accepted South Vietnamese refugees, what percentage of its immigrants have been from South Vietnam since April 1975. 
What plans does the Government have for relocating South Vietnamese emigrants in Australia in the future. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, 25 May 1977: 
1 ) What are the names of all of the individual nation States on the African continent. 
What is the estimated population of each country. 
What is the name of the (a) Head of State and (b) effective political leader in each country. 
What is the estimated (a) black and (b) non-black population of each country. 
Which of these countries currently have (a) a President and/or Prime Minister and (b) governments that are in power having been freely elected in open, adult franchise elections where any of the country's citizens were eligible to be candidates with the eligibility being similar to that in Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the United States. 
Into which of the following classifications would the remaining non-democratic nations fall: (a) military junta, (b) non-military dictatorship, (c) limited democratic with the franchise being restricted to a limited number of electors of (d) others. 
What was the date on which each Government came to power. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I direct his attention to recent reports in the media about visits to Australia by members of the family known as Barbaro. I ask the Minister whether there have been any applications to him for permission for Domenico Barbaro or any of his family to visit Australia. If there have been such applications, on what grounds were they made, and with what results? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) How many persons applied to migrate to Australia in each of the years since World war IL 
What was the total number of migrant arrivals for each of these years. 
What percentage of the Australian population did those new settlers represent at either (a) 30 June, or (b) 3 1 December, of each of those years. 
What were the net percentage changes in Australia's population for the same years, taking account of permanent departures over arrivals. 
-Last night and again this evening we have heard in this House several references by the Australian Labor Party Opposition to the supposed great success of the Labor Party in New South Wales municipal elections last Saturday. Last night the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon),  a very kindly man in his electorate, took great delight in acquainting the House with the wonderful result for the Labor Party in the New South Wales council elections. During the course of his speech last night the honourable member for Sydney suggested- in fact he was most emphatic- that the successful Civic Reform victory in his electorate of Sydney was due to the fact that the Liberal Party machine was behind the Civic Reform team and behind the victory of Leo Port. Unfortunately the honourable member's expertise was not sufficient to get the Labor Party elected in that part of New South Wales. 
I want to deny emphatically that the Liberal Party machine was behind the Civic Reform in its outstanding victory which will give it nine seats compared with six seats for the Labor Party. It will be a significant victory for Alderman Leo Port of the Civic Reform over Doug. Sutherland, former alderman of Burwood Council, former unsuccessful candidate for Marrickville Council, former alderman for Ashfield Council and now unsuccessful candidate for the lord mayoralty of Sydney. They will not endorse him again because they know they have a dead horse. However, the honourable member for Sydney went on to suggest that $100,000 was expended by the Civic Reform team. I am not able to say whether that figure is correct or otherwise. I suggest that whatever money was expended by the Civic Reform team and, for that matter, independent candidates in the New South Wales elections, would have been expended out of their own pockets and from fund raising activities. I suggest that the Attorney-General of New South Wales,  Mr Frank  Walker, the member for Georges River, did not necessarily raise his funds in that manner. 
The Attorney-General of New South Wales used the taxpayers' money to campaign. 
MrJull-Didhe? 
-The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  doubts that this could happen. The Attorney-General of New South Wales used the letterhead of the office of the New South Wales Attorney-General and envelopes from the Attorney-General's office to campaign on behalf of Labor candidates in the Georges River electorate. 
-It is an absolute disgrace. He wrote to the electors in that ward advising them that voting was compulsory, that there would be a $5 fine if they did not vote. He then went on to suggest that the Wran Labor Government in New South Wales had done wonderful things with rates. What an untruth. All honourable members know and the people of New South Wales know that it was because of the LiberalNational Country Party Government in this place that the rates in New South Wales were kept to a basic minimum. He went on to tell the electors in Georges River that it was because of what the Wran Labor Government had done. He solicited support and votes for Labor candidates in Georges River. He was only one. The Labor member for Ashfield did the same thing. He used taxpayers' money by using parliamentary stationery to canvass votes for Labor candidates. What is more, the Labor member for Ashfield possibly bordered on an infringement of the Electoral Act because he solicited postal votes in his electorate. 
What about the Labor member for Hurstville,  Mr Kevin  Ryan? He did the same thing. This type of activity would cost money for the Civic Reform team. They are honest men. They use their own finances, unlike the Labor Party candidates who use taxpayers' money to solicit votes. My colleagues on this side of the House are absolutely astounded. I am not astounded. It is what we have come to expect from Labor candidates in New South Wales, whether State, municipal or, with respect, Federal candidates. I say to the honourable member for Sydney that he had best work a little bit harder in the next election because he was not successful and he may not be successful in the future. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Is it a fact that professional actors, entertainers and television performers now are no longer able to obtain advice on employment opportunities from the Professional Employment Office within the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in Sydney. 
If so, why. 
Who made the decision and when was it made. 
If the answer to pan (1) is in the negative, (a) what services are available, and (b) in what way are services available, to these citizens. 
Are professional actors, entertainers and television performers denied unemployment benefits even when they produce a membership card identifying them as long standing members of their trade union, Actors Equity. 
Can he say whether an officer in the Department of Social Security in Sydney recently indicated to a professional actor of long standing that his profession is not a serious one, nor an established profession, and therefore any permanent members of it would be ineligible for unemployment benefits. 
If so, was this just a momentary lapse or is it the view of the Department. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I was wrong. On 28 April 1 977 1 made a speech in this House about the means by which homes were being sold in and around my electorate on terms contracts. In that speech I mentioned the case of  Mrs V.  Philippidou and indicated that I had other examples where it was apparent that a rip-off situation was prevailing. I quoted clauses of a contract between  Mrs Philippidou  and the Commercial Purchasers Group, and in particular Compur Pty Ltd, and went on to describe what I then believed was the impact of those contracts. I have more recently come across new information and have now checked and re-checked the situation and found that the maintenance of some of the properties in the lower price bracket sold by Compur had been in some areas deficient and/or inadequate. I must point out, however, that because of the kind of financing arrangements this company had offered its customers, without this finance home purchasers and especially those who were newly arrived in Australia would not have had the benefit of owning a home so quickly. 
Clearly cases where Compur, its management and staff and shareholders have been aware of a customer problem or complaint, they have treated clients fairly. Compur has given me appropriate assurance that it will arrange for immediate repairs to any of its houses which I believe are in need of them. In some cases that has already been done, notwithstanding the absence of a legal responsibility so to do. As the equitable title has passed to the purchaser following exchange of contracts, this becomes a moral and/or social responsibility only. I have personally interviewed over some hours the  Chairman  of Compur,  Mr Alexander  Ure and the Managing Director,  Mr T.  Lynam. In that interview ana various other discussions I obtained from them the most detailed and comprehensive details of the company's operations and financing methods- far more detail in fact than I had obtained previously. The company co-operated fully with my requests in every respect. After careful and sober thought I accepted that the company had operated and is operating on a fair basis. I found this company's return on capital invested was a moderate return. 
Previously I gave this House the impression that the integrity of these two gentlemen was in question. I now want to be specific, deliberate and concise when I say that as far as I am able to ascertain personally they, with their staff and fellow directors, did not act improperly in respect of their financing methods and, in terms of recommendations from other people who have dealt with them, they are clearly honest men. That must also be the view of the New South Wales Attorney-General because he has communicated nothing to me since 29 April 1977, which would put that assessment in doubt, notwithstanding that he had what amounted to an invitation so to do. Unfortunately, some months have now passed and these words are now being spoken at the first opportunity I have had to clarify the position and to explain to the House the circumstances in which I was wrong. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
Are statistics available showing the number of children who have designated as illiterate on leaving their secondary education during recent years. 
If so, what are the numbers and what additional documentation is available on this matter. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the latest aircraft hijacking, what action has the Government taken in the United Nations to reach international agreement on a convention against terrorism? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
1 ) How many specific groups, other than primary producers, are able to take advantage of the averaging provisions within the Income Tax Assessment Act and what are the groups. 
Have professional actors and entertainers been excluded from taking advantage of these provisions; if so, why. 
Will the Prime Minister indicate to the House how badly Australia was affected by inflation in the years December 1972 to December 1975. By way of assistance to the Prime Minister, I draw to his attention a statement that inflation 'didn't hit Australia any worse than other countries' when the Labor Party was in office. It was said by the honourable - 

 -Mr Speaker, this is the last occasion that you will have the opportunity of calling the honourable member for Evans. I regret personally that the name of Evans has been removed from the list of electorates in New South Wales. But I, like my friend and colleague the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  accept the fact that redistribution was necessary, and that my seat had to suffer. Last night in a fair fight I lost Liberal Party preselection for the new seat of Lowe, which now contains 41 per cent of the electors from my old seat of Evans that was, as I have just said, recently abolished.  Sir William  McMahon, the right honourable member for Lowe who won the pre-selection, has my total support as the endorsed Liberal candidate for that seat. I wish him every success in the election on 10 December so that our policies and our legislative program may continue to have community acceptance. I shall be giving all my energies to his campaign.  Sir William  will be fortunate indeed to have the loyal and active support of so many of my constituents. With my team we will be working hard to ensure that Lowe remains Liberal with our former Prime Minister as the member. 
I have thoroughly enjoyed my time in the federal Parliament. It is an opportunity, a privilege and an honour that is afforded to but few. Many seek to serve in this place but few succeed. I have enjoyed serving at both the policy level and through the parliamentary and Liberal Party committees. But my greatest thrill has come from living and working with my constituents, most of whom are either veterans, young people, migrants or, may I say elderly Australians. Despite the ruggedness of politics there is a special kind of friendship here. I say in all sincerity that it is on both sides of the House. I have made many friends from all walks of life, of all political calibres, and I am sure that my leaving this place will not in any way endanger those friendships. To all of you I should like to say thank you for your help, assistance and friendship. To the hundreds, if not thousands, of Australian- like one family, the Campisi family- in my electorate who have worked for me in more ways than I shall ever know. I want them to know how grateful I am for their support. 
In no way has my devotion to liberalism been diminished. The fight is still very much on. I look forward to returning to Parliament shortly to continue my duty and my career and to serve the Australian people. The kind of nation we should have, as I see it, has been spelt out in my earlier speeches in this place, the questions I have asked and the commentaries that I have given to the media- It would be remiss of me if I did not express my grateful thanks and gratitude to the  Clerk,  his assistants, the  Hansard  reporters, the staff of the parliamenary refreshment rooms who have looked after us, to Gordon Pike and his drivers and workers, the attendants, and even our friends in the Press Gallery. To all those people who are employed in Parliament House and who have assisted me in one way or people I say: Thank you. 
I come now to those people who on 13 December 1975 saw fit to allow me to serve the electorate of Evans. I want to thank them for affording me the honour of serving them for two brief years. My staff, who have been loyal and faithful, have my gratitude. Regrettably, they will be looking for greener pastures. That is a matter which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has just mentioned. To my wife and my children, I say thank you. Thank you,  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 November 1977: 
What actual financial contribution was made to the United Nations by each of its member States during the last year for which figures are available. 
What sum per head of population did each contribution represent in each of the member States. 
What percentage of each member State's gross national product or some other internationally recognised measurement of each member State's wealth, did each contribution represent 
What national States are not members of the United Nations. 
