I ask the Treasurer whether the increased rate of interest of one half of 1% imposed by the Governor of the Reserve Bank applies to advances made by the Rural Credits Department of the Bank to producers against the delivery of their crops? Was not the Rural Credits Department created and designed to meet the need to make such advances, not to swell the profits of the Bank, but at a rate that would be as low as possible and just sufficient to meet the costs of the Bank in that Department? Seeing that such an impost is a direct tax upon the already overburdened producers, is the Government allowing the Governor to take over some of its taxing rights, or will the Treasurer assure me that this tax will not be imposed? 

 - Sir, I have come to the conclusion that you have been a very tolerant  Deputy Chairman  in allowing honourable members to have in Committee a second second reading debate. All I wish to say is concerned with the rate of interest. This is a pertinent question. I think that it is quite definite. In his second reading speech, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said: 
The Bill provides that the loan to the Board may be made available on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer determines. 
He went on to say - and this is quite definite:  lt is intended that the rate of interest on the loan by the Commonwealth will be the same as the rate charged for Government guaranteed loans by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank on the date the loan is made. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch),  who is also the Minister assisting the Treasurer, has said that the interest rate today is  5%.  The loan is subject to one condition only. No power exists for alteration. The Treasurer has no right to alter the rate of interest, I take it, anyhow, after a loan is made. It is intended that the rate of interest that will apply is the rate of interest that exists on the day when the loan is made. This is definite; otherwise this Committee is being let down. I do not think that this is the intention of the Treasurer. He has made it quite definite. 
The only condition to which a loan is subject is that it must have the approval of the Australian Loan Council. Six State ministers are concerned in this matter. The Governments of which those ministers are members have become parties to the wheat stablisation scheme. Obviously, they will accept these loans because they are responsible, as the Commonwealth is responsible, for this scheme. It is a joint stabilisation scheme. I do not see any ambiguity as to the matter of interest. If the rate of interest is 5% today, and we pass the Bill on that basis, we expect the rate of interest to be 5% at the time the loan is made and to remain  5%  for the term of the loan. 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Affairs. Has the Minister seen the article in one of the newspapers concerning Australian exports to Rhodesia? Can the Minister let me know the Australian attitude in regard to the export of wheat and whether any subsequent events would indicate the 
Government's attitude relative to the resolution of the United Nations Security Council on this matter? 
One of the protections of the peanut industry has not been in effect a head subsidy - it has not cost the country, the consumers or the Government anything, lt is a method of letting in sufficient imports to make up the country's requirements at concessional rates so that the average price for which the peanuts will be bought by the manufacturers- that is, the price of imported peanuts - plus what they pay to the Peanut Board for those which it has available, is equivalent to the price of all other oils, which are now interchangeable. 1 am all in favour of concessional rales. However, the Board made an earlier recommendation to abolish concessional rates, which the Government did not accept. What is wrong with a policy that allows a country which manufactures to bring in sufficient peanut oil to make up the requirements of the market here? I think the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that peanut oil is a special oil and has. a special place, and that not all oils are interchangeable. The oils arc interchangeable, but the manufacturers desire to have peanut oil for a particular purpose in certain instances. 
To allow, as has been the case, 3 tons of peanut oil to be imported for the product that is on the market means that its price will be equivalent to that of other oils. lt does not cost the Government or the consumer anything, because if the product is not made up of imported peanut oil it will be made up of other imported oils. Frankly, 1 am against the abolition of the concessional rate. However, the Tariff Board has recommended that it should be phased out over 2 years. The Government has reduced that period to 1 year and 8 months. I have asked the Minister to have a look at this position and he is doing so. I cannot see why we should not have the full 2 years principally because the season of the peanut industry is from 1st July to 30th June. To back dale the period to January or to April cuts right into the middle of the season. As a result the Board cannot make its arrangements with the manufacturers for a seasonal supply for the tonnage that is available and equate that with the necessary tonnage that comes from overseas. I hope that the Minister will have a look at this matter. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Eleventh and Twelfth Schedules- byl leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Thirteenth Schedule. (Amendments of the Principal Act as Amended in Accordance with sections 3 to 14 (inclusive) of this Act). 
The Budget discussion has brought forth many and varied views. I suppose most subjects have been dealt with. There has been a lot of reiteration. I do not blame honourable members for stating their views, but many of the subjects have been discussed over and over again. The half-hour available to speakers does not allow them to deal with all the subjects involved in the Budget. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  who preceded me, tried his best to deal with most of them in the short period he had in which to speak. In the course of his remarks he made some reference to primary industry. I note the approach of the Australian Labor Party to primary industry. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  devoted about 60 words of his entire speech to primary industry. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  is gloating over the misfortune of primary producers because of drought, blaming the Government because it could not make it rain. He has a peculiar policy on marketing. He would stand up our good buyers and make them take our products. This is his approach to solving the problem posed by the European Common Market. In other words he is anticipating the troubles we may have when Britain enters the Common Market, by creating an artificial position 2 or 3 years before. It is obvious that, if we stood up those countries, as the honourable member for Riverina would have us do, with the surplus of so many commodities available they could get them elsewhere and tell Australia to jump in the lake. One does not do business that way. 1 notice that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  the man who generally speaks about primary industry on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, has been effectively suppressed. He has not even been given a guernsey in the debate. That is how much value is put on primary industry by the Labor Party. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  said that primary industry is getting far too much and that urban communities should get more, and the honourable member for Kingston has just said that subsidies are not very effective. He in effect deplores the payment of subsidies to primary industry but be does not deplore - he does not say so, anyhow - the payment of subsidies to secondary industry whence comes so much of the employment in this country. He is prepared to let the Tariff Board help secondary industry to the amount of SI 800m a year and to spend about $100m or $200m on primary industry. 
He said that the $30m that is to be made available to the wool industry is nothing but a social service payment. If it is a social service payment, are not primary producers, who are forced to sit at home with no income because of drought, just as entitled to social service payments as anyone in any other section of industry? 
Not with the Labor Party: that is right. I think the Government ought to look at that aspect and make the conditions easier by correcting the anomaly which prevents primary producers from getting social service payments while the drought is on. These people cannot go away and leave their properties. How can they leave their properties to go to other jobs when they have stock to feed? Surely the honourable member for Kingston and other honourable- members who represent metropolitan areas should not be the only spokesmen for the Labor Party on primary industry. Of course, it does suggest a lack of interest by the Labor Party in its whole approach to primary industry. 1 have time to mention only one or two subjects. J want to give first priority to this drought and its effects. 1 know most honourable members realise there is a drought on, but not all honourable members realise the detrimental effect of drought, particularly in Queensland. The position is nothing less than tragic not only for producers but also for business, financiers and employment. They are all affected. Those who have had employment in the country districts find that no employment is available. Producers have no income. Finance houses and storekeepers have been carrying the burden, it has become so tragic that the banks which have mortgages over properties are approving the grocery accounts that their clients are forced to run up from time to time to be able to feed themselves. 
That is the tragic result of drought. The whole economic structure of country towns and districts is affected. The producer has used up his assets plus loans and other assistance that he may possibly have got in the attempt to carry on. It is nol a drought such as the one New South Wales and Victoria had 2 or 3 years ago, which lasted for a season. This drought has continued for 5 years without substantial rain, and in some areas for 10 years without substantial rain. The producer is totally involved. All that matters to him in life is at stake. He cannot ever get out under the present financial set-up, so he must have a possibility of revival and reconstruction made available to him. I will deal with that more fully later. 
We need a reconstruction board to examine proposals which would allow recompense to the businessmen, the wool firms and the financial institutions who have carried the producers; otherwise there may be no assistance from them in the future. Nobody will be willing to make loans to those who have lost all their security. All this has affected employment. It has forced a migration to the cities and to other jobs. Therefore I repeat what I said earlier: It is urgent that social service payments be made available to these folk who are forced to remain at home to try to save the stock which are there and to look after the property. 
Marketing and costs should be given more consideration, and capital costs should be kept at a minimum by providing in rural reconstruction proposals for payments on a practical basis. Transport costs should not be the burden only of the producer and the other citizens who live in far distant places. In other words, construction costs for such assets as roads and rail transport facilities should not be the financial responsibility of the present day citizen only. Governments should carry commitments forward for future generations of users of those facilities. Unless these costs are kept at economic levels production ceases. More and more of the population will be in the cities and fewer and fewer in the country. Transport costs over long distances destroy any prospect of expansion in decentralisation. Businesses in sparsely settled areas cannot compete with those in populated areas which have little or no transport costs. 
Marketing policies must be the joint responsibility of Government and industry. There are some marketing schemes in operation which are effective. Others, as with wool, need urgent action. Where industries are divided, government leadership becomes imperative. But regard must be had to each section of the industry's activities. Priorities should not be given to financiers, brokers or monopoly newspapers which have a vested interest only in the profits. Consideration must be given firstly to the producer, the buyer and the consumer. We have had too many problems associated with the wool industry because of the detrimental effect of newspapers which are out to condemn everything associated with primary industry and its stability. I think I could say of one metropolitan newspaper that it would be the dawn of a new day if it ever said one good word for primary industry. Therefore we have this detrimental effect. A balanced approach is not achieved. If one sought to make a statement of rebuttal newspapers would not even publish it. So this is where the bias and lopsidedness come into some of these discussions on stabilisation. Who matters most - the broker, the financial house or the producer who does the hard yakka only to see his prices going down? 
We feel that it is imperative that a marketing scheme for wool and other commodities which might be in like circumstances should be dealt with. Therefore I say that we must keep this matter in the forefront. 
One aspect of costs to producers - both primary and secondary - upon which employment as well as production depends is the turmoil in our wage fixing system. The policy of strikes and more strikes is adding more to increased costs than the actual wage increases. This is a factor which does not seem to be taken into consideration by the courts in their determinations. The disruption in industry, loss of production and the non-success of conciliation are terrific in their impact on costs. I would like to reply to one remark made by the honourable member for Kingston. He said that we do not necessarily require more and more production, if it is overdoing the picture. We do require more and more work from those who are receiving their rightful wages. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  when he spoke on Tuesday last, said: 'What is the policy of the Government on wages?' I think he was arguing - I do not want to misquote him - that profitability should be a factor. The policy of the Government is arbitration. We say that the employees should receive their rightful wages, of course. This country would not prosper or progress in any sense if they did not. But there are some companies which are more profitable than others and are prepared under conciliation to concede greater increases than they should concede. This sets an example that others whose profits are not so great cannot live up to. 
I repeat that there is non-success of conciliation. In too many cases conciliation gives way to intimidation and I think that today in certain cases increased wages are given under duress. Some industries which are more profitable than others do agree to increases. Thus others are burdened with increased costs which they cannot bear economically. I am not too sure whether the courts are always immune to the effects of intimidation. I am not saying that they are influenced by it but the effects of intimidation by decisions made outside do reach the courts in evidence. We ought to get back to arbitration in its truest sense. We would  vp*  a fairer cessment of wages decisions than we are now suffering under the perpetual strike system of intimidation. One freedom that we seem to have lost in this country is the right of a person to work if he wants to work. There is duress and intimidation all the time, and heavy financial losses are always carried forward to industry and production because of the continual loss of time and loss of production brought about by strikes and those who sponsor them. It is time this country did a bit more work. That is one of the reasons - not the only reason - for the continual increase in costs that confronts us today. 
Trade unionism today fails to recognise the detrimental effect on employment when the employers' problems and costs are ignored. If arbitration is to succeed then the merits of both sides must be. appreciated. I said that I wanted to give priority to the drought position and that 1 would come back to the financial re-arrangements that I feel are necessary. We need a financial reorganisation rurally. We must stop and consider whether we can live with the present prices that we are getting for wool and some other products. We must face the fact that world prices cannot necessarily be altered. When surpluses are available and the only market is overseas, we must of necessity accept the best offering on these world prices. We must consider whether present financial arrangements are adequate and must look at the structure which is set up. We have the Development Bank. One of the main conditions of the charter of that Bank is that there must be an element of development in the work to be undertaken for which the finance is made available. We have term loans. We have trading bank activities. We have pastoral companies. We have the State Government banks. We have the Commonwealth Development Corporation. These institutions have done a pretty good job. But not one of them covers the requirements of rural industries today. 
Because of the involvement of rural industries with seasonal conditions and seasonal returns, long term financial arrangements are required. Perhaps the Rural Bank of New South Wales might be the institution approaching nearest what we require. Each of the institutions that I have mentioned serves a purpose. Most of them are involved heavily in advances made to rural industries. In most instances, I suppose, they have gone beyond the normally accepted degrees of security because of the excessively severe drought conditions. All would be due for rightful consideration in any rearrangements that might be proposed because of the way in which they have assisted primary producers and country businesses in this time of emergency. 
Let us look at future needs. With whom does the function that I have outlined lie? In the first instance, it is really a State responsibility. I say that because of the activities of State Ministers in relation to land and agriculture matters. A financial rearrangement is needed. The present drought conditions are tragic. Many of those engaged in rural industries are so heavily involved financially that they may not ever recover unless a practical reconstruction programme is submitted and agreed to. The Commonwealth Government has provided short terra help by way of grants to wool growers. That action in itself would not be sufficient to remedy the situation. But it has been stated by the Treasurer that this is an interim measure pending the result of investigations which I know are well under way. The purpose of those investigations is to discover a long term arrangement which will meet present conditions. Associated with these investigations for long term action to meet the problems of the wool industry, I wish to see the Government of necessity extend these proposals so that they will cover also grain producers and others who are in the same category as the pastoralists. 
Drought assistance has been granted by the Government to the States. No-one can say that this assistance has been other than liberal. The Prime Minister announced this week that New South Wales would be treated in the same way as Queensland had been treated with respect to drought relief. That is, the Commonwealth would be prepared to bear all the cost of such agreed drought assistance in excess of $4m. Drought assistance is something quite separate from reconstruction. What we need today is a debt adjustment bank or institution. I do not care whether it is called a bank, a corporation or a reconstruction board, but we need that type of institution. In 1930, a farmers debt adjustment scheme operated. I am not acquainted with the ramifications of that scheme but it is sufficient to note that it helped materially. 
This is the subject to which I give the highest priority in my Budget speech. Perhaps certain States have banking institutions which cater for the requirements of such a scheme. Queensland, the State most affected, has not. It has its Agricultural Bank which is too limited in scope and in available finance. Queensland needs a bank of the type of the Rural Bank in New South Wales. Perhaps the Commonwealth Development Bank might be given a new charter. I do not think that the first priority today is more development. Because of the surpluses that we have, we do not necessarily want to develop more new areas and so have further surpluses. If necessary, let us alter the charter of the Development Bank. Let us widen its charter for reconstruction purposes to meet the present set of circumstances facing Australian rural industries. 
Our first need is an investigation. As I. have said, an investigation is proceeding now. The Budget Speech informs us that this is so. We need a planning authority. This could take the form of a provisional board, lt should be an entity to carry out necessary functions while a decision is being made on this matter. Then we want a long term reconstruction scheme. Perhaps the institution required might be based on the New South Wales Reconstruction Board.  J  do not know whether an organisation of that type would meet our requirements satisfactorily - I am not acquainted fully with all the implications of such a body - but we could study it to see whether it is satisfactory and determine whether its charter needs amendment if it is to be applied for Queensland purposes. 
I do not wish to labour this subject any further other than to say that this is my first priority, lt is a necessity to help in the restoration of this country and to help those people whom we wish to see remain in country districts. They are men and women of experience. If we let them go, we will have to replace them with inexperienced people who will not be able to face the rigours of situations which arise such as droughts and other kinds of adverse seasonal conditions. I put that proposal to the Government as my first priority. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Turnbull)  adjourned. 
The remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  amused me. He came into Parliament on the same day that I did. I sat in the Opposition for 6 years and I know that what he said is not factual. The Labor Government used the guillotine and the gag repeatedly. We called the then Vice-President of the Executive Council the Lord High Executioner because he was always using the axe upon us. At that time the House had only about half the number it has today. I think there were 78 members instead of 125. The Labor Government would not give us time to discuss the Estimates although a lesser amount was involved in the Budget and there were fewer departments to operate as extensively as they do now. Yet the Labor Government used the guillotine and the gag continually to frustrate the then Opposition in putting forward its effective arguments. 
If the honourable member for Grayndler will be candid he will say that in those days we really had debates and the Parliament was a much better one in that sense. Today the Opposition is so divided and has so many problems outside the House that it is gagging its own supporters all the time and continually exiling this one and that. Let us lake a look at the Opposition. It is so engaged with its outside problems that when it comes here it is not prepared to discuss the merits of a case 'and put it in as few words as are necessary to make it more effective. I just want to draw attention to the fact that if we followed the example of the Labor Party there would be no democracy here at all. 
The issues are quite clear cut. The Government stands for a policy of development and progress. It stands for a policy of full employment and all that is good for this country. The Opposition adopts purely a negative approach in everything that it says and does. I am following the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  whom I would class as  'Mr Words'  because he is a user of words and words. If honourable members can decipher or determine what his real meaning is, they are better than I am. Out of the final statements that he has made, the only conclusion to which I can come is that he is against and opposed to all the efforts to achieve stabilisation in primary industry that the Government has undertaken in conjunction with, and with the approval of, industry leaders. That is his attitude. Let me sum it up in this way: The honourable member is against anything being done to try to help or to stabilise primary industry. 
There has been criticism that the Government is to cut its expenditure by only $75m, but it will do better than that. The $75m represents the reduction that will be achieved over the remaining 4 months of this financial year. In fact a reduction of $200m will be achieved in a full year. The Government is adopting a responsible attitude in its approach to inflation.. I believe that this country should remain, as it is, a developing country. In development there is always a measure of inflation because everything that, is done to develop a new industry does not become reproductive immediately. It becomes an asset to the country. But we have to guard against excessive inflation and excessive costs in establishing new industries. 
Queensland has an aggravated position because of other difficulties from which it is presently suffering. It is not responsible for inflation in any respect. I agree with what the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has said about primary industry, and I commend the arguments advanced by him to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  They are an answer to his own statement that inflation is more a consequence than a cause. Queensland, parts of northern New South Wales and Western Australia have not been responsible for any inflationary spiral. Twice in his speech the honourable member for Dawson said that primary industry cannot stand this wage-cost spiral. By using that terminology he admitted that wage increases are a factor in cost increases. We cannot keep an immunity from cost increases and present to the employees of this country a net increase in wages as a consequence because costs come into the picture, lt is still necessary to keep development going. 
The honourable member for Dawson offered a solution and it was supported by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  because he wants to attack all monopolies. The honourable member for Dawson did not use the term 'monopoly'. The effect of his statement was that the burden of inflation is caused by the big industries such as the steel, oil, mineral and manufacturing industries. In other words, the Australian Labor Party wants to tax these industries to stop inflation. The policy of this Government, as I understand it, is to maintain full employment. How are we to get full employment if we do not allow sufficient capital to enable industry to expand and to cater for the ever increasing number of employees year by year? So we can only take it that the Australian Labor Party does not stand for expansion of industry or full employment. It is prepared to tax those businesses that are successful and thus create unemployment. It is Labor policy also that there should be less production because it is the policy of at least the Queensland Labor Party, and I think it is the policy of all members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party, to introduce a 35-hour working week. That would mean less production and less money to enable industry to provide further employment. Let members of the Australian Labor Party say to the farming industries of Queensland that they are  in  favour of a 35-hour week. A 35-hour week would add to costs. 
The arguments put forward by the honourable member for Dawson, many of which 1 agree with, effectively answer the statement made by the honourable member for Lalor that the wage increases are a consequence, not a cause. I want to analyse that statement. The other day a Queensland public servant said to me: 'I have had three wage increases since 1st November last amounting to a 2.1 per cent increase in my wages. I have received not merely the 6 per cent. That was only one increase. I have received total increases of 21 per cent'. I have an accountant friend who tells me that he has had to pay his employees three increases since that time. Is that arbitration being applied correctly? If the actual wage increase should be 6 per cent, why is it not 6 per cent? Why is there that snowballing effect between the courts of the States and the courts of the Commonwealth? That is why we get excessive increases. This public servant was honest enough to say to me: 'It is not warranted that I should have received a 21 per cent increase in 2 months'. 
The honourable member for Grayndler, who came into this Parliament the day I did, is slipping a bit, because we can criticise arbitration awards. What I am criticising, if the term .--.:--- can be applied, is that we cannot reconcile State arbitration awards with Federal arbitration awards in order to avoid an unnecessary snowballing effect which causes an injustice to somebody or other. Industry cannot afford to pay a 21 per cent increase or a 30 per cent increase, as was the case in one instance. 
Others have to bear the extra burden when the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decides that the wage increase should be 6 per cent. The effect of such wage increases is more detrimental to country interests and country industries than it is to metropolitan people because the country areas have double transport costs, added burdens of delivery, and higher costs of distribution because these areas are more sparsely settled. These are the things that put the burden on the country people. So we must have regard to a just arbitration system. I am for arbitration all the way, but if there is a necessity to have a reconciliation between State and Federal awards to ensure fair decisions in the courts I am all for it. 
I think that in certain cases the Government should look at the transport costs which affect so many people. Exports have been mentioned considerably in this debate. I think that the Commonwealth Government should look further afield at the necessity or otherwise of purchasing more ships for Australia so that we can have more competitive freight charges and so that we are not fleeced or unnecessarily charged high freight rates for all our export products. I think also that States might have regard to giving us a cheaper transport system intrastate because road haulage attracts such high taxes these days that road transport costs are an unnecessary imposition and charge upon the country people. 
I submit that the Government has carried out correctly what the Prime Minister has said is a necessary action to curtail inflation to a degree. We have not adopted a panic policy which is apparently what the Labor Party wants. Much discussion has centred upon price fixing but the Opposition knows that we do not have the power to enforce it. The Opposition knows that this matter was submitted to the people of Australia by referendum by the then Labor Government in 1947 but after the experience of 7 years of price fixing during the war the people of Australia turned the proposal down. Of course, associated with the fixing of prices of materials was the fixing of wages but the submission that  Dr Evatt  put to the people was that the Commonwealth Government should continue to have the necessary authority to fix prices. Those who lived through the war know all the evils and the good that was associated with price fixing, including the blackmarketing that occurred. One had to know a friend who knew a friend to get something from under the counter. 
I could not find a friend, and quite frankly the people turned down the proposal that the Commonwealth should have the authority to fix prices. But if the Trade Practices Act is ruled by the High Court to be invalid, action should be taken to see that we do get power to prevent collusive trading and unnecessary increases in prices. 1 am all for the strengthening of the Act. 1 favoured this legislation when I was in the Ministry and I favour it now. I hope that the Act will not only be implemented but also strengthened immeasurably to help us. I support the Government in the actions announced by the Prime Minister in the fields of Government expenditure, private investment and non-dwelling construction. Do we need to panic? Do we need to take any further action? I do not think we ought to take the socialistic approach of the Labor Party. To adopt the suggestions made by members of the Opposition tonight would lead to less production. There would be added costs and unemployment if all the successful industries in Australia were subjected to further taxation. 
Having had a great deal to do with the sugar industry in a minister,al capacity, I want to commend the Bill before the House and also the continuation, with some amendments, of the Sugar Agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments. I commend those Governments for working together so well and so persistently over a period of years to reach agreement on the International Sugar Agreement. Included in the deputation to the talks on the Agreement were Commonwealth and Queensland Government representatives and also representatives from the sugar industry. Had it not been for the persistence of the Australian delegation I do not think that we would have an International Sugar . Agreement today. Agreement was not reached at the first or second series of talks, but the Australian delegation persisted in its fight to obtain the stability in the price of sugar overseas which we now enjoy. 
I was Minister for Primary Industry at the time when the early negotiations on the International Sugar Agreement took place. The price of refined sugar then was as low as £17 10s a ton. and it was obvious that no industry could operate economically with the price of sugar at that level. The industry could not produce a refined product at that price. The Australian delegation persisted and obtained help from some of the other sugar producing countries, and eventually a new International Sugar Agreement was finalised. The Agreement has had its effect. The price of. sugar has risen Vo as high as £53 a ton. and today I think it is approximately £50 a ton. That, together with the domestic price for sugar in Australia, has given an equalised price. I would not call it an overpaid price, but it is a much more satisfactory price than obtained in earlier years. So 1 pay a tribute to the sugar industry and to the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments for their co-operation and persistence. 
The industry is in effect self-governed. The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  used a term with which 1 do not agree. He said that the industry almost could be called a socialised industry. In no sense is it a socialised industry. If I understand the term 'socialised', it means controlled by the State or country. This industry certainly is industry controlled. The 2 organisations and their respective committees, which fortunately work together very well, meet regularly and consult with the State and Commonwealth Governments before any decisions are made. The honourable member -for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  referred lo the price of sugar. The price of sugar &gt;is always reached after consultation with the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments, and 1 have yet to see an industry more efficient in the presentation of a case than is the sugar industry. The sugar industry places every fact and detail, before the Governments so that the Governments can readily assess what they think is a fair price for sugar. That has been the approach which the industry has adopted over the years. 
When the sugar industry was in difficulties because the overseas price of sugar was low and accordingly the equalised price was not payable, the industry approached the Commonwealth Government. Again it demonstrated that it was a responsible industry, lt did not ask for grants; it asked for loans. It accepted the responsibility for repaying those loans and is meeting those commitments today. The Commonwealth Government agreed not to charge interest on the loans for the first 3 years, and this was one form of assistance which this Government has given to the sugar industry. The honourable member for Dawson also referred to the increase in costs over the years. Obviously I agree with his statement that the best way to meet increased costs is to increase production. 
The Commonwealth Government has given further assistance to the sugar industry in that regard, lt has provided subsidies on nitrogenous fertiliser* which are the main fertilisers used in the sugar industry. I note from the Budget papers that those subsidies are estimated to cost Si 0.5m this financial, year. The Government also has provided subsidies amounting to $46m a year on phosphate fertiliser which, in the main, is used in the southern States. That fertiliser is not used to any great extent in Queensland. Nitrogenous fertilisers are in the main fertilisers used in the sugar and pineapple industries in Queensland. This measure of assistance has enabled the sugar industry to increase production. The Commonwealth Government has provided further assistance to the sugar industry by way of devaluation compensation payments, and the Budget papers indicate that $5. 5m ' have been provided for this purpose. Sp like other primary industries, the sugar industry is riot receiving lesser payments for its product because of Britain's devaluation, of sterling. 
The sugar industry has helped itself. It has improved its efficiency .by introducing greater mechanisation and by establishing its own research stations. When the industry was confronted with industrial trouble and could not ship its product south, it decided to make the industry thoroughly efficient by the erection of bulk sugar loading terminals throughout the sugar areas. When the price of sugar increased to a record level some years ago the industry again adopted a responsible approach and retained a considerable amount of the money received in that period and subsequently used it for constructing bulk sugar loading terminals. So all I can do is to commend the industry for its efficiency, for the way in which it has co-operated with the Commonwealth and Queensland governments and for the way in which it is facing up to its responsibilities. 
Reference was made to the expansion of sugar producing areas. Of course, the decision to expand those areas was made by the industry and the Queensland Government. The Queensland Government set up a committee of inquiry under the chairmanship of a judge, and that committee recommended the expansion of sugar producing areas.  1  have always stated my position on this matter, even when I was Minister for Primary industry. I believe that it was a very good thing that the industry expanded as it did at that time because its expansion provided a solid basis for the industry to get a much larger quota under the International Sugar Agreement.  1  know that this expansion caused certain problems at the time. These problems resulted from the low free world price, which did not give the industry a satisfactory equalised price. However, as a result of the Government's persistence in securing an international agreement, things have worked out very satisfactorily. I hope that the industry will continue to operate satisfactorily in the future. I am sure that the industry is happy with the fact that it has a much larger world quota under the International Sugar Agreement than it would have if it had not expanded. 
The main difference between this Agreement and the previous Agreement is the threefold commitment by the sugar industry to the fruit growing industry. The Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee is a responsible body. Although it is not responsible to the Government for the decisions it makes it is thoroughly representative of the sugar and fruit growing industries, lt consists of representatives of the Commonwealth Government, the Queensland Sugar Board, growers of canning fruits, growers of non-canning fruits, the co-operative and State manufacturers of fruit products and the proprietary manufacturers of fruit products. The Committee has conducted its activities in a very satisfactory manner. 
The sugar industry is in actual fact making a contribution to the fruit industry because the Government in ils wisdom, having regard to the fact that the sugar industry is totally protected from imports considered it necessary to assist the fruit industry. The fruit industry has been assisted to a great degree. If it were not for the fact that purchasers of fruit have to pay the price determined by the Committee if they want to receive the subsidy, there would be really no stability of price in the fruit industry. A twofold purpose is being served. The sugar industry is being totally protected against imports and, by its contribution to the fruit industry, price stability is being created. I know that at times there have been differences of opinion between the members of the Committee, but things generally work out very satisfactory. The fruit growers are able to sell quite reasonable quantities at a satisfactory price. 
I refer now to the question of local prices. It is only fair, of course, that the contribution made by the sugar industry should be - T think it is - taken into consideration in determining the local price. I feel quite sure that if, having regard to increases in the cost of living and in various other fields of operation, it is necessary to increase the price, the sugar industry will do what it has done in the past and give a complete table of figures and assessments to prove its point. I hope that the government of the day - whether it be this Government or any other government - will be as sympathetic to the industry as governments have been in the past. The sugar industry is a commendable, efficient, self governing industry. Tt is an industry which has given its entire cooperation to the Queensland and Commonwealth governments. The industry is in turn glad that these governments have been so co-operative in every sense and have given the forms of assistance I have mentioned. 
Problems will always arise, but there is less industrial trouble in the sugar industry nowadays because the industry has taken action to mee! its own responsibilities in regard to transporting its product to the capital cities and other centres to which sugar is transported under this agreement. There is no trouble in that regard because of the innovation of bulk loading. However, I hope that the cost burden will not increase. In this regard 1 support the comments of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  I hope that the policy of the Australian Labor Party or any other party will not inflict added costs by virtue of a 35-hour week. No industry - particularly one on the land - could stand up to this added burden at the present time. 1 commend the - Government for introducing this Bill and I commend the industry for its efficiency. 
It is interesting to hear these lilywhite Laborites talking about gerrymander. The Queensland Government is an infant in this field compared with the Labor Party when it was in government. Firstly, I point out that the present electoral boundaries are based on the zonal system which was introduced by  Mr Hanlon,  the Labor Premier, and which was then continued by  Mr Nicklin  in 1958. That system which involves 3 zones is the basis for the present system. 
I know they have shifted. If the honourable member looks at the Bill which was before the Queensland Parliament he will see how many fewer country seats there are now. The gerrymander by the Labor Government in Queensland when it was in office brought about a position in which the combined vote of the Liberal and Country Parties was 30,000 more than the Labor vote yet they had 12 seats fewer than Labor in the Parliament. That was the gerrymander which kept the Labor Party in office in Queensland, so honourable members opposite should not talk about gerrymander. Honourable members opposite are squealing. They do not like their own sins being brought home to them. Let us consider the proposal which was put as an amendment last night and let us consider the gerrymander. Is this the way that honourable members would have Queensland represented in the State Parliament, with 52 seats within 100 miles of Brisbane? 
We know that the Opposition has indicated time and again that it has no sympathy for people in country areas. The proposal advanced by the Leader of the Opposition in Queensland was even worse than the one which was carried by amendment last night. The proposal which was carried last night provided for 52 seats within 100 miles of Brisbane and 12 seats only for the area west of the Great Divide. That is a wonderful representation for Queensland! Yet the Leader of the Opposition in Queensland wanted to have 9 seats only for that area. The Liberal Party, represented by the  Deputy  Premier of Queensland, supported the Bill which was before the House. These lily-white Opposition representatives who have committed the gravest sin in a gerrymandering that has ever been experienced in the history of Queensland should have a look at themselves before they come in here and talk about gerrymandering, because they do not want the rural dwellers to have any reasonable representation at all. The Labor Party will forever be in disgrace for wanting to continue the inadequate representation of the rural people instead of wanting to have their representation increased. I know what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has said about people in the country being regarded as pagan and what he has said about the civilised people being in the cities. He has said this and he did not deny it until 12 months after when it was printed in the newspapers. That is the attitude of the whole of the Opposition. There may be a few on the Opposition side who have some sympathy- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Sturt will resume his seat and cease interjecting. 
There may be a few on the Opposition side who represent country electorates now. Are they game to advocate the deletion of further country electorates? They have not got the guts to do it. They just listen to the executive of the Queensland Labor Party. They go about among the people but they do not tell the people what they stand for - less and less representation for country people and country interests. 1 think it is time this was shown up. 
Since the time allotted for the debate has almost expired I do not have much of a chance to enter into the discussion except to say that I am totally opposed to this Bill because it destroys all principles of democracy. The first past the post voting system, even on the figures given by the honourable member for Brisbane 
I appreciate the explanation made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Shortly before 6 o'clock, rather than start the next item on the list, . the Minister in charge of the House suggested that it was a convenient time to rise for dinner. To my knowledge, no-one thought other than that at 8 o'clock the next business on the sheet would be the International Wheat Agreement Bill. I was here ready to take part in it. As the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  had explained the Bill in his second reading speech, obviously there was no occasion for Government members to say anything further about the Bill. I was waiting to speak after the honourable member for Dawson. I thought that the  Speaker  was pretty considerate, because he put the question and then he saw the honourable member for Dawson come into the chamber. He waited and said to the honourable member for Dawson: 'This is the wheat Bill. Do you want to speak?' 
The honourable member might have been confounded, but the  Speaker  was pretty considerate. Since no other Opposition members apparently wanted to speak on the Bill, I wanted to help the Govern ment to get the business through. I did not rise, and the Bill went through. That is the position,  Mr Speaker.  I thought you were very considerate in giving the honourable member for Dawson a second chance. 
I have noted the remarks put forward by the Opposition in opposing the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  It is obvious from the proceedings yesterday that the Opposition is concerned only with delaying, obstructing and preventing Government business being called on for debate. This is the purpose of the Opposition. 
 The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  was good enough to show me his amendment before he moved it. However, I am afraid I cannot agree with it because I do not think he has taken into consideration the difficulties of members who travel much further than between Canberra and Sydney or Canberra and Melbourne. I agree with what the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  said about committee work on Tuesday mornings. Also we need to acknowledge that Cabinet works on a Tuesday morning. This is the regular meeting time for Cabinet and it is necessary, whatever government is in power, for Cabinet to meet and carry on its business. 
Take the position of a Queensland member. If Parliament were to meet on a Tuesday morning I would have to travel to Canberra on the Monday. If this were to happen we might as well retain the present 4-day week. 1 would need to travel for most of Monday in order to be here for Tuesday morning sittings. 
If we have sittings of 3 days a week it would not apply. If we adopted the amendment moved by the honourable member for Banks I would have to travel to Canberra on Monday. The honourable member's amendment provides that business would stop at 6 o'clock on a Thursday night. If my memory is correct, I think the air services could not get me even to Brisbane on a Thursday night. Apparently my Queensland colleagues and I would be expected to sit around and twiddle our thumbs while members who come from Sydney went home. Why can we not sit for 3 hours on a Thursday night? Why should we throw that time away? In other words, the honourable member for Banks is saying: 'Do away with the time that is now given for committee work, do away with the time allotted for Cabinet discussions that are so necessary in the scheme of things and let the Sydney and Melbourne folk go home on Thursday nights'. Honourable members who do not live in Sydney or. Melbourne would still have to wait interstate to catch their planes on Friday morning. Therefore, I believe the honourable member's amendment does not help at all. If we accept the amendment moved we may as well stick to the present system of sitting 4 days a week. T think that is all that needs to be said. 
The discussion on the Budget each year is interesting. Much of a muchness arises from year to year. Generally, an amendment is moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  On this occasion, there is really no substance in his amendment. At least, there is nothing to back up the accusations he makes in it. He said that we need a fundamental review of social services and methods of adjusting them. I think that since the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been the Government Leader he has certainly shown goodwill towards meeting this fundamental necessity by providing 2 increases in the pension and by providing various other increases. The second reason of the Leader of the Opposition for his amendment is that the Budget contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government. That is exactly what the Government did at the last Premiers Conference. Everybody knows that local government is entirely a function of State government, and that any funds made available to the local authority must necessarily be made available through the State government. Thirdly, the Leader of the Opposition claims that the Budget produced no programmes for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security. It is the confidence that is maintained in business, in industrial matters, in foreign affairs and in many other spheres that shows that this Government has met these needs to the full. A lack of confidence would be evident were the Leader of the Opposition to become Prime Minister of this country. 
The Leader of the Opposition commenced his speech with an absurd statement. I just wondered, as I listened to him, how he could be so irresponsible and absurd. He brought criticism against the Government for not giving the lead on international currency matters. Surely ho knows that the Australian dollar is not a major currency unit, even if as a nation we regard it as very significant. For Australia to make a decision prematurely before there was any devaluation would be silly. That statement by the Leader of the Opposition shows his irresponsibility. We must necessarily wait to evaluate the position before we make any decisions on those vital matters. Does the Leader of the Opposition suggest that because some other nation whether it be Japan or Timbuktu might make a decision next week in relation to currency matters, this Government should have the prevision to declare what it will do? It shows how gullible the Leader of the Opposition is. 
Honourable members can understand his gullibility in going to China and accepting its policies so readily. He accepted the domination that comes from a oneparty government. I do not suppose that the Leader of the Opposition met a leader of the opposition in China. 1 wonder whether he found one there? He accepted the policy of domination of the Chinese Government. He accepted Communist policies of China rather than the policies of Taiwan. Communist China believes that the people of Taiwan should be suppressed and forced to accept Communist domination. They have been successful in avoiding the domination of that Government by setting up their own Government and proving their ability as a nation. Surely those people are entitled to be free. AH I can conclude is that the Leader of the Opposition is anti-freedom. He is against any freedom for the 14 million people of Taiwan. He is against Tibet. He obviously favours the domination policy of China in crushing Tibet. He is against small nations. Yet he is inconsistent, because he recently travelled to New Guinea and stirred up the rabble there saying that they should have self-government immediately, even before the people themselves wanted it. That shows his inconsistency. 
Budgets never meet all of our requirements. I do not suppose that this Budget has met all of my requirements. No budget can meet the multitudinous demands that people put on the Government of the day. The Government has the responsibility to analyse, to assess and to determine our economic programmes and development. We have had satisfactory progress in this country although certain factors have caused inflation. I have heard many reasons advanced in the Parliament for this inflation. I think one that contributed very much to inflation was the excess of demand which was created by too rapid progress in development. I think that the Government's Budget of 12 months ago was a contributing factor to that excess demand. Looking at the Prime Minister's programme for this year honourable members will see that the Government has pruned it heavily. Whilst there is an increase in expenditure, that has been caused in the main by the amount that is to be advanced to Qantas Airways Ltd for the purchase of its additional aircraft. However the amount to be advanced to Qantas exceeds the increase in that particular vote. I submit that more advance planning is needed. If the Government could plan 3 or 4 years ahead, when an excess of demand was created the 12 months programme envisaged in a Budget could be extended to, say, 14 months. This would ease the demand. The man who has to pay for the erection of a house finds that there is an excessive demand for building material, a shortage of labour in the industry and that he has to pay overtime rates to get sufficient men to construct his house. These are all added costs and are extremely inflationary. My suggestion could be applied to the Post Office programme. The expenditure on its construction programme is to be increased by several million dollars this year. If it is found that the rate of progress is inflationary would it hurt the nation very much if the expenditure were extended over IS months instead of 12 months? Employees would be retained to undertake the construction tasks and this would ease the pressure of demand. One of the reasons for inflation is the excessive demand created because our progress has been too rapid. 
A second reason for inflation I attribute' to the policy and general approach of industrial leaders. I do not criticise the working population of Australia but I criticise and condemn the policy and general approach of industrial leaders who initiate and prolong industrial and political stoppages. This has been a big factor in Australia's troubles. I should like the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  or someone else to supply me with an analysis of the costs of industrial stoppages. It may be that the losses that result from stoppages sometimes enforced by industrial leaders represent more than the increased wages awarded by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This is where the public is suffering. The working classes agree with me. They have shown this in 2 recent byelections in Queensland. On the Wednesday prior to the by-election there was an enforced strike occasioned by the political intervention of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council Central Executive. Workers throughout Queensland were forced to go on strike. The reaction of the general public was shown by the electors in the Maryborough and Methyr byelections. 
In the Maryborough electorate a government candidate previously has not got within 2,500 votes of the Labor candidate but on this occasion the Government candidate won by about 1,600. This was a clear indication of the voters' reaction to the domination of the Brisbane Trades Hail. The situation was aggravated by the  President  of the Brisbane Trades Hall who publicly, in effect, said: 'If anybody does not obey our dictates his name will go in my little black book'. Do we want Jack Egerton and his little black book dominating this country? The people gave the answer to that question in the 2 byelections and they will give the answer in the next State and Federal elections if labor leaders do not learn a lesson from what has occurred. I notice that the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  is in the chamber. He must have got a shock when he saw the Maryborough by-election figures; T got a pleasant surprise. 
Maryborough is a city seat and the Country Party candidate did particularly well. He ran neck and neck with the Liberal Party candidate. The Liberal Party and Country Party candidates used the one advertisement which urged electors: 'Vote for whichever one you want'. 
They did. I will show the advertisement in the Courier Mail' to the honourable member. 
Undoubtedly they would have had their own campaigns in Maryborough, but there were some joint advertisements. 
The honourable member already has told me what he thought was the background to the by-election. The fact that the Government candidate won by about 1,600 votes instead of losing by about 2,500 indicates the resistance to and the rejection of the domination by the Brisbane Trades Hall, lt seems as though the labour leaders have not learned a lesson because they are still on a witch hunt. When they saw the result of the by-elections the leaders tried to crawl out from under. They blamed the Labor politicians and put 2 right-wingers on the mat. If they keep up with this witch hunt and the division remains in the Labor Party that will suit us nicely for the next elections. 
The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  was really interesting when he spoke to the Budget. He said he was biased. I wonder why he should be biased especially if one looks at the financial allocations to the Australian Capital Territory. No part of Australia has been as well treated. I instance Belconnen as an example. No suburb of that area is older than 4 years. I am told that its population is 25,000. Splendid residences have been built in Belconnen. I admit that there is much private enterprise in the area and that not only Government expenditure is involved. But associated with the residential construction are school buildings - high schools and primary schools - hospitals and everything else that caters for the needs of that population. So why would the honourable member be biased? He says that some of the immigrants in Canberra would prefer to go home to their own countries and not retire in Australia. I should imagine that they would return to their homelands for emotional reasons only, not because they would be better off there than in this great country. The honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory was not very critical and contented himself by saying that he was biased. He was so biased that he did not want to give credit where credit was due. 
In the vote for Canberra there is one deficiency. There is no reference to a much-needed new Parliament House. I do not know why we spend $lm or $2m every year on the present building. It is not adequate to accommodate the people who want to come to Parliament House, yet we spend $lm, $2m or $3m every year adding to it, like adding a shanty on to a farmhouse. We still have this building when we ought to be planning now for a new Parliament House. The building will take 10 years to complete. If we start to make financial provision for a new parliament house on an annual basis we will not need such a big outlay to complete it. 
How time flies. I suppose that the Opposion will give me an extension of time? 
It is really interesting to see the division within the Australian Labor Party in regard to the attitude of its members to rural industries. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that the present proposals 
He is not exactly a nephew; he is my nephew's son. I am very proud of this fact, as such. 
The honourable member for Dawson said: 
The present proposal of the Government is  a  living example of the injustice and inequity of the Liberal-Country Party philosophy, blatantly giving money to the rich and deliberately discriminating against the small fanner or the big farmer who genuinely needs help. " 
In other words, so far as the wool scheme that has been so generously provided by this Government is concerned, the honour able member for Dawson and the Labor Party want to provide a means test. I challenge that Party to say that it wants to apply a means test to the sugar industry in which the honourable member is so very interested. I challenge the honourable member to say whether he will apply a means test to the wheat industry; 1 challenge him to say whether he will apply it to the dairy industry. Of course, a price subsidy on production should be paid. The honourable member also criticises the pastoral houses and private banks. Does he not- 
Having regard to the existing policy of the Government, now operated by the Department of the Interior, which provides executive type homes for rental and optional subsequent purchase by senior public servants and Ministers, and about which some concern has been expressed, does the Prime Minister feel that any need exists for a review of this policy or for a variation of approach to these matters? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it true that the United States of America is at present reviewing its legislation affecting sugar imports? ls the Minister able to inform the House of the present situation regarding any new legislation and how this might affect Australia's exports to that market? 
 I was amused to listen to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  taunting members of the Government and challenging us to vote for an opinion. I am not on the list of speakers for this debate but I want to say that the honourable member for Riverina must decide between voting for an opinion and voting for the original motion, because he has no alternative. If he votes for the amendment and it is carried the Bill will not be read a second time and the scheme will be defeated. Is that what he wants? Does he want nothing but an opinion? The motion before the House is that this Bill be now read a second time to which the Opposition has  moved an amendment that all words after that' be deleted with a view to inserting other words. If the amendment is carried the Bill will not be read a second time and therefore will be defeated. So the honourable member asks us to vote for an opinion and to toss out the substance. Of course we will go for the substance. 
I just want to make a few comments on this matter. I was the honourable member whose speech apparently riled the Oppostiion into calling a quorum. I admit that my speech could have been an inefficient one and that. 1 was having a crack at the Opposition. I . think that the subject matter of the debate tonight is divided into 2 parts - firstly whether the statement as published was true, and, secondly, what penalties should be imposed, if any. I want to say quite candidly that I agree 100 per cent with the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  who was in the Chair at the time of the incident, as to whether honourable members left the chamber. I have a trained eye for that sort of thing because I had been  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  for about 9 years. Obviously when a quorum was called for I looked around to see whether anybody was leaving. Therefore if it clears the Labor Party, I say that the statement as published was not true. Nobody left the chamber. I know that this is the case because 1 purposefully looked around to sec if anybody was leaving. If that clears the Labor Party well and good. But I do not think it is much to the credit of the Labor Party that only 5 of its members were in the chamber. The second point I want to make - I do not know whether it is relevant or not - is in relation to the intent of the Labor Party. The intent obviously was not to come in when the quorum bell was rung. Quite often when the bells are ringing I come from my room and find that the passage is blocked or that Opposition members are going the wrong way. They have no intention of helping to make up a quorum. 
I do agree with the  Deputy Speaker  at the time, who was  Mr Lucock,  that no-one left the chamber. I am not here to justify any statement made by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin).  If he rushes about and makes statements to the; Prime Minister or to anybody else I would not justify them at all. Was he here at the time to see for himself? We are not here to judge whether his statement is true or whether that is the basis on which  Mr Reid  made his statement. 1 am not here to protect the Packer Press. T do not think much of them anyhow. 1 am here to see that justice is done. Every day of the week commentators are making wrong statements over the air about Parliament and about members of Parliament. Are we going to single out this one and impose a penalty on him when the. others go free and daily commit the same offence against members of Parliament? 
I agree with the honoruable member for Path  (Mr Berinson).  We should not be debating this matter. It is too trivial. If there is any fault it is the fault of the Parliament, for accepting this motion as one that should go to the Committee of Privileges. If we are to investigate every complaint and every attack against members of Parliament the Committee of Privileges will never cease to sit. The statement published was not true. There is no basis for suggesting that it was true. My statement exonerates the Labor Party, if that is what it wants. If that is any credit to the Opposition. It ought to have more than 5 members in the Parliament. Because we as a parliament were guilty of accepting such a trivial motion to put before the Privileges Committee I think we should accept the Government's motion as a consequence. 
Has the Minister for Housing seen reports in recent days of proposals to grant interest rate subsidies equivalent to 2 per cent on housing loans? Can the Minister say what would be the benefits of such proposals and whether they are in accord with acceptable principles regarding housing in Australia, especially where governments and public authorities assist those on modest and low incomes to acquire their own homes? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Thar the Postmaster-General's Department Centra] Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assemble( will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent ils unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to' national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty hound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister for Housing seen a recent publication which indicates that Australian home owners obtain 30 per cent of their finance for home ownership from noninstitutional sources? Does the Minister propose that these people should be penalised and does he know of any proposal in the field of housing which would discriminate against these people? 
It is quite interesting to listen to the debate on the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee and particularly to the contribution by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  Firstly let me say that the Standing Orders Committee which made these recommendations is an all-party committee. I understand that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  is a member of the Committee and could have voiced his opinion in that all-party committee. He may have done, so - I do not know. It seems to me that for a member of that Committee to come here and move amendments after the allparty committee has agreed to the recommendations is an attempt to engage in party politics. 
I believe that petitioners should have the right to present petitions to Parliament. But there has been a series of incidents throughout my political career that stresses the ineffectiveness of the results of petitions. I think that the Standing Orders 
Committee has produced a recommendation to make petitions more effective in that they will go to the Minister concerned who would have an obligation to deal with them. I refer to the effectiveness of petitions in one way other than by receiving a direct answer. I go back to the time of the 1947 bank nationalisation proposals. The honourable member for Grayndler said that only 90-odd petitions were presented on that occasion. But most of the protests at that time did not come in the form of a petition. I had almost 1,000 protests in one day in the form of letters and telegrams. Not one protest was made by way of a petition. Every day was the same. We had hundreds of such protests coming in. People were protesting against nationalisation and the financial policies of the Australian Labor Party. Because the protests were not in petition form members of the Australian Country Party went as a block with an armful of these protests and presented them to the then Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley.  They put the protests on his table. We saw that he got them. 
I do not know what he did with them - I think he ignored them. But the people did not ignore him when it came to the 1949 elections. As the honourable member for Grayndler knows, this was one of the chief instruments that put the Labor Party out of office and the people have not trusted that Party since. The people want to handle their own money; they do not want a government handling it. This was the result of the 1947 Banking Act introduced by the then government. I am prepared to show honourable members a photo of one day's mail I received when the Labor Party tried to nationalise banking. 
It proves that the then Labor Government ignored the petitions that were presented to the House and went on in its folly to its doom. Let us take the example of recent petitions. I think that the recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee would be more effective without any other action such as is envisaged in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio. What can one do with petitions? 
The Parliament receives petitions galore. Hundreds of them concern the closing of Post Offices, but usually they do not mention any particular Post Office. Some mention Post Offices which it is ridiculous to include. There would be no thought in the mind of any government to close some of them. The size of the towns involved would ensure that they were retained. So we receive these general petitions. If a reply is wanted within 21 days the Minister could say: 'I , acknowledge having received the petition'. In the case of the banking nationalisation petitions it would have been physically impossible for any Minister to have answered all those that were presented. There were literally hundreds of thousands of them which would have made it impossible for Ministers to answer them all personally. 
The effective way of dealing with them is for the  Clerk  to present them to the Minister concerned who, no matter who he is, would not choose to ignore them. He would feel enough responsibility to take note of what is presented and the causes for it. We have the folly of members of this House signing petitions calling for elections. One does not need the  Clerk  to present such petitions to the Leader of the Government. The Prime Minister would say: 'No, we will have an election in our own time', or 'We will have one according to the Constitution, within the time specified for an election'. That is obviously the answer that would be given. AH I can say is that the joint parliamentary Committee has come up with a sensible recommendation which obviates a needless waste of time and ensures that the petitions that are presented receive the consideration of the Minister concerned. I support the recommendation of the Committee and certainly oppose the amendment of the honourable member for Corio. 
Let me make one further point. In many petitions the matters raised are ones of policy in respect of which the Minister, for the Government, would say: "This is a matter of policy which will be announced by the appropriate Minister at the appropriate time or when Cabinet makes a decision thereon'. Necessarily, all these things cannot be done within a period of 21 days. So the sensible thing to do is to put the responsibility on the Minister by letting him have these petitions, just as we let the late  Mr Chifley  have those hundreds of thousands of bank nationalisation petitions and protests that were sent to us at the time. A Minister would not dare to refuse to acknowledge petitions that protested against something within the jurisdiction of his Department. He would necessarily make a statement appropriate to the occasion. 
Has the Prime Minister any information concerning the present position of the 3 Torres Strait islands which have been under discussion, and how will their position affect the Government of Queensland. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I am concerned about the shortage of funds in Queensland and the many rejections of applications made under the rural reconstruction scheme. Dozens of applications have been rejected and many are being left lying on the table, consideration of them being unduly delayed. The reply of the board administering this scheme is that it has to adopt priorities because of the shortage of funds. Surely the term 'reconstruction' implies assistance to those who have been adversly affected by drought or other adversities. As advances in many cases are being given to those who have ample security which would meet the requirements of normal banking proposals, will the Minister contract the Queensland Government and/or the board to ask that need be given first priority in their considerations? Will the Minister arrange for a reallocation of funds available so that other States will not be given excess funds determined on a formula basis so that Queensland- 
1 give my approval to the Budget that has been presented and reject out of hand the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I think that it is an effective and a well proportioned Budget. It is responsible, and helpful to all sections of the community. It is helpful and beneficial in its social services and in the many welfare increases given right across the board. It will assist industry and employment, lt will assist industry because of the confidence engendered by the Government in taxation reduction and by making available more funds to the States which, in turn, will increase activity in industry and employment. Those payments are increased by S395m to a total of 
S3,449m. The Budget will assist industry by the extra assistance given to the housing industry and to those proposing to build. 
These factors, and many others which time does not allow me to elaborate upon, will also assist employment because confidence is essential to industry to enable it to provide employment. One other factor that assists the economic position is that our exports are up by 13 per cent. That is also welcome and assists the general economy. When we look at the taxation position it is worth stating again that the minimum taxable income is increased from $417 to $1,041. This will exempt 600,000 taxpayers. It is no mean feat to be able to give such assistance. The dependants allowance has been increased by $52 per dependant and personal income tax has been reduced by an average of 10 per cent. We recall that in April last there was a taxation reduction of  2i  per cent also. 
This Budget completely stunned members of the Opposition and they have not recovered yet. As a consequence, they have made irresponsible statements, many of them far removed from the Budget. If they say to me that these statements are not irresponsible, we can accept the statement of the Leader of the Opposition that he wishes to appreciate the dollar as being responsible. We can accept that as Labor policy. It is either irresponsible or responsible and if we accept it as responsible we know such an appreciation will decrease export income to rural and secondary industries, cause unemployment and make our exports uncompetitive in many markets. 
I stand against any appreciation of the dollar. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has declared himself on this issue. But let the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  and other members of the Opposition declare themselves. If they do we will know whether they are in favour of more unemployment because that will be the effect of appreciating the dollar. There can be no confidence in the Leader of the Opposition. Of course, leaders come into the question of an election very much in these days. I have no confidence in him because of the divisions that he has created in the Party he professes to lead. We have the division on the dollar appreciation which I have just mentioned. We had the division on immigration. He sacked the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  as shadow Minister for Immigration. He would sooner support the extreme policy outlined by the South Australian Premier. We notice that the honourable member for Grayndler, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  and some of the other members of the Party do not agree with him, but they have to remain silent. AH but the right honourable member for Melbourne seem to swallow their convictions and say nothing about this matter. They just accept his views. He creates division on industrial matters. He and his colleague have had to accept dictation from the Labor Executive. Apparently they would like to forget the statement made by  Mr Haylen  who was the honourable member for Parkes in 1949. Since the honourable member for Grayndler has quoted from 1949 let me give a 1949 quotation from  Mr Haylen  when he gave Labor's approach to unemployment. He said: 
So long as it is no more than 3 per cent it is to all intents and purposes full employment. 
That is in Hansard. 

 - Mr Haylen, a leading Labor member in 1949. Honourable members may see it in Hansard. I repeat that he said that so long as unemployment did not exceed 5 per cent it was to all intents and purposes full employment. What a wonderful record the Government has when compared to the approach of a leading Labor member at that time. I want honourable members to hear this also: The Leader of the Opposition has had to forsake principle for expediency. Despite his earlier opposition to communism and extreme leftism he finds it easier to run with the crown that dictates to him. He has created division on moral matters and permissiveness. I agree 100 per cent with the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  in regard to the comments he made on that matter. I know that all honourable members do not agree with the Leader of the Opposition but there is a division in the Labor Party and he is not the leader to get the unity that results from confidence in the leader of a great party. 
I am stating facts about him. If we cannot have confidence in him as prospective Prime Minister, the nation should never think of electing him to that position because confidence, honesty and integrity are the essentials which are necessary in the leader of a country. It was very interesting to hear the honourable member for Grayndler advert to the year 1949. It is a wonder that he did so. Apparently he forgot Labor's insistence on nationalising the finance system of Australia plus its determination to retain war time controls as late as 1949. Labor refused to lift the controls on petrol rationing. The banking issue and petrol rationing were 2 of the main factors that lost Labor that election. We promised that control of petrol would be removed and within 7 weeks of the Liberal-Country Party Government being elected the controls were removed from petrol and they have not applied since. 
Is that so? I do not want to take the prerogative of the very worthy Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  but I do want to say a few words about defence. I believe in the necessity adequately to defend this country. The Opposition's attitude to the defence of this country is absolutely void of responsibility. To all intents and purposes, honourable members opposite would leave our country isolated and defenceless. They intend to neglect or dissociate us from our allies, friends and treaties. They intend to reduce our Army from 9 battalions to 5- from 41,000 to 29,000 men. This is what their spokesmen say. How can we effectively defend this country with 29,000 men? No doubt the Opposition will dispense with or sack all those experts who are available for training men in excess of those required in the 5 battalions. The Opposition will sack those experts and create more unemployment. 
I presume that the Opposition - and I ask honourable members opposite to listen to this because I challenge them to refute lt - will release those men now on reserve who were called up under the national service scheme, because to be consistent, if the Opposition will not maintain the national service scheme in order to get the required number of men for the Army, it cannot have men under obligation on reserve. So that means that we get back to the volunteer only. It will be a matter of leaving it to the poor volunteer so that honourable members opposite can sit back in their affluent jobs and say: 'Let the other fellow look after our country'. That shows their love of this country. They have no love for it. 
I believe that the price of freedom is eternal vigilance, and I go all the way with that. I love my country and I offered to defend it when the war was on. 
I turn now to rural finance. Every business required capital to enable a continuation of activities, and the business of rural activity is no exception to the rule. Because of seasonal circumstances, producers require capital to carry on in time of adversity and for development. Various forms of assistance have been provided by lending authorities, by banks and by the Government. I want to deal particularly with this Government's activities which I think have been very widespread. The Government has been fairly generous, but it has not met the position to the full. This Government has provided financial assistance, under the very generous war service land settlement scheme to those who were eligible to receive assistance under that scheme. Finance has been guaranteed by the Government under approved stabilisation schemes which have been implemented from time to time. A Rural Credits Department has been created, and advances have been made to commodity boards for first advances and interim payments as required. By meeting the amounts of the guarantees provided under various Acts this Government has assisted many industries. 
In addition, term loans have been arranged through the banking system in which the weighted average of the term is 7 to 8 years, but most rural loans are for shorter periods than that, and that is not a satisfactory financial system. The Commonwealth Development Bank was created with a special limited charter which required that the finance provided by the Bank had to be used for developmental purposes. Advances are not always available from the Development Bank when producers, because of necessitous circumstances or to meet altered requirements, have to invest in machinery and equipment such as refrigerated milk vats in the dairying industry or irrigation plants to make their present land holdings more productive. That does not come within the category of development and many producers have been refused assistance in those circumstances. 
An allocation of Si 00m has been made for rural reconstruction. The term implies reconstruction of properties which have been adversely affected by drought and other circumstances. The advances made in Queensland, in many cases, do not meet my concept of reconstruction or need. Applications are determined on the security offered, and even though a property is viable, need is forgotten. This merely allows banks and other lending institutions off the hook of their responsibility. Over recent years the Commonwealth Government also has assisted generously by providing grants and loans to overcome drought and to meet other urgent circumstances. These are the ways in which assistance has been given. 
Therefore, noting that there is still a need to meet the position of the rural producers of this country, I am glad to see included in the Budget the provision of $20m for long term lending to the rural community. There is a need to make long term loans available to farmers, because the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has reported that farmers' indebtedness has increased by 7 per cent annually since 1945. So their commitments have increased gradually, and we have to meet that need. There is a need for greater flexibility to improve the evolving trends in rural adjustment which is necessary in order to ensure that rural production is tailored to meet rural market opportunities both on the export and domestic markets. This is especially so as we can see possible market changes taking place because of Britain's entry into the Common Market. 
If, as some people have suggested, the Development Bank is to be used as the medium for the use of the $20m provided in this Budget, then the whole charter of the Bank must be widened, liberalised and made more flexible. The charter in the present Act is too limited. But I strongly prefer that there be established a national rural bank which would use effectively the $20m to be provided. Such a bank could also attract other funds for its use. In this way the scope of the bank's activities would be considerably widened. I wish to quote a leading article in a responsible newspaper, the "Gympie Times'. It states: 
Existing banking institutions and pastoral firms have strained their resources to help financially the man on the land but they could not give the same assistance and security as could a national institution specially designed to provide long-term low-interest credit to those engaged in rural pursuits, including local district farmers, graziers and agriculturists. 
That newspaper gives its full approval of this proposal. The economy of this country would be greatly strengthened by the creation of such a bank, because rural industries are still vital factors in the Australian economy. That is the basis of my approach to the question of rural finance. I hope that there will be no undue delay in the establishment of the necessary medium to make these and other funds that can be accumulated available to the rural producers of Australia. I strongly support the Budget. 
I ask the Treasurer: Has there been any reaction by Western countries, particularly the United Kingdom and the United States of America, to Australia's recently announced measures for capital inflow? If so, what was the nature of the reaction? 
The Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Bill is not a controversial measure. It is a very necessary piece of legislation because of the expiry of the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilizers as provided for under the present Act. The subsidy will expire on 31st October. This Bill provides for 3 things. It provides for a continuation of subsidy payments at the present rate of $80 per ton of contained nitrogen until 31st December 1974. The proposed extension of the subsidy brings the future termination of the Act into line with the expiry date of the subsidy under the Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Act. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  indicated how vital nitrogenous fertilisers are to Queensland industries. As I recall the situation, when I recommended to the Government in the first instance that we should have a superphosphate bounty we found that superphosphate was used mainly in the southern States and that Queensland used very little superphosphate but extensively used nitrogenous fertilisers, the subsidy for which is provided in this Bill. The relative figures are interesting. The phosphate bounty which has been provided has cost the Government $280m up to 30th June this year and assistance under the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Act has cost S57.4m. 
Secondly, the Bill provides for the rate of subsidy to be expressed in metric terms. I do not know whether I will be able to understand them. I think the present form is much more readily understood by me. The third reason for the Bill is to change the basis on which certain imports of nitrogenous fertilisers become eligible for subsidy under this Act. Needless to say, I support the Bill because it is necessary to continue this subsidy which should reduce the costs to the grower-consumer and also it will assist in increasing production, which of course is one way of reducing the growers' costs. I agree with the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  in his contention in relation to that matter. In his second reading speech the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  stated: 
Provision presently exists in the Act for subsidy to be paid on  undumped  imported nitrogenous fertilisers, when the importer is also the user of the fertilisers, providing the Australian producer is not prepared to supply like or directly competitive fertilisers to the importer user on terms as favourable as the import transaction. 
The amending legislation will extend this principle to include all importers irrespective of whether or not they are also the users of the fertilisers. The Minister went on to say that the main effect of the amendment contained in the Bill will be to ensure that importers who are also distributors of nitrogenous fertilisers have access to subsidised supplies. The Minister continued: 
Primary producers will continue to have the opportunity to purchase their fertiliser requirements at the lower of the subsidised  undumped  import price or the subsidised domestic price. 
This sounds all right and I just hope that the intention becomes the fact. I want to analyse that statement made by the Minister because there should be no misunderstanding about the position. When the Minister says that importers who are also distributors of nitrogenous fertilisers will have access to subsidised supplies, I would question the end result of that proposal.  1  want to know from the Minister whether il possibly could happen that Consolidated Fertilisers Ltd, which I understand is the major manufacturer of the local product, could distribute to associate companies - they are all next door to one another - such as ACF-Austral Fertilisers Pty Ltd, Australian Fertilisers Ltd and General Fertilisers Ltd and then to the end seller who could be the local seller. It may be we will find that the subsidy is totally absorbed so that there is no benefit to the grower who is the actual user. We need some clarification on that point. I think the amending legislation is open enough to make this a subsidy for distributors. Is there protection for the grower, who is the producer, in the long run? In his second reading speech the Minister stated: 
These changes will have no effect on the Minister's power to direct that no subsidy be paid where the fertiliser selling prices do not pass on the full benefit of the subsidy. 
Pass on to whom? Does the Minister mean the distributor or the grower who uses the fertiliser in the ultimate? There should be total protection for the grower so that he receives the full benefit of the subsidy. That was the position when I was a Minister, and it was provided for in the original Act. I want to be assured that that is the position now and that the subsidy will not be absorbed by a series of distributors passing it on to one another. The legislation is meant to protect the grower so that bis costs are reduced. 
We read also in the Minister's second reading speech that the primary producers will continue to have the opportunity to purchase at the lower of the subsidised undumped import price or the subsidised domestic price. I made representations to the Minister for Customs and Excise in relation to this matter, because unless the primary producer is protected he will have to pay more for his fertiliser than hitherto. Up to the present he has had the benefit of lower import prices - dumped goods, if you like - which were coming in at the price of approximately $77. Now all imports attract full duty which raises the price considerably. I think the amount of duty is $18.40, which happens to be the amount of the subsidy. So if there is a like product in Australia the net result is that the imported price is higher than that of the local product. When the price of the imported product is higher than that of the local product, no subsidy is provided for the imported product, which is a better product. Proof of this can be found in the citrus growing area on the coast just north of Brisbane. At my request the Minister for Customs and Excise sent his inspectors up there and they made a thorough analysis of the situation. 
In his reply to me the Minister said that his inspectors found that the local product is not a like product or a competitive product. I thank the Minister for his prompt action in relation to that request. The wording of his reply to me was as follows: 
Departmental officers have held discussions with  Mr Roy  who also conducted field usage tests on his property at Palmwoods. It has been decided that the locally manufactured product is not like or directly competitive with the imported calcium ammonium nitrate and that subsidy is therefore payable on the imported product. 
That means that the subsidy is now payable on the imported product which may be purchased at the same price at which it has been able to be purchased over recent months. That is all to the good, because if we look at the 2 products we find that the local product is almost unusable. It is unusable in the sense that one cannot distribute it. It is as hard as a rock. One just cannot distribute it over the fields, and I am told also that it makes the user so itchy that he has to have a wash every hour or so. That does not suggest that it is a good product. The fruit growers had discussions with  Mr Hughes,  who is the Queensland manager of ACF-Austral - he is a manufacturer - who said that he would not use it. That is what he thinks of the product that the manufacturers are selling. In other words, he was trying to get the growers to buy Nitran, which requides another additive, instead of calcium ammonium nitrate. If a farmer has about 100 lb of Nitran he would need about 125 lb of dolomite to get the correct Ph content - which is the acid test of the soil - and he would add to his costs. The manufacturers would sooner produce some alternative to CaN upon which the subsidy is payable. So it is obvious that if Australian manufacturers want to be in the picture they have a challenge before them to produce a product that is good, that is necessary, and that can compete with that which we are getting from overseas. 
The company from which they get this fertiliser overseas - BASF - is the greatest company in the world for this sort of product. It spends approximately S4m a year in research, lt knows what is wanted and it produces the goods. The citrus growers are very happy with the result but they are quite prepared to use an Australian product if one is produced which will give them the necessary results. But the wording of the amending legislation suggests that the subsidy will be payable only on the local product and that it will not be payable on the imported product where the price of the imported product is higher than the price of the local product. So that excludes the subsidy from the imported product which is the one that the farmers want. But thanks to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who responded to my representations and sent an inspector to make that thorough analysis, these growers can get the satisfactory imported product, and be subsidised thereon, at a cost of $77 a ton which is approximately the price at which they had been buying it in recent years This has been called a dumping price, but whether it is a dumping price or not, it is a satisfactory price for the growers and one at which they are happy to import. 
I cannot quite understand the wording of the Bill which says that organisations of farmers may do their own importing. I hope it is possible, lt would not be possible under the other strictures of the Act which prevent farmers from getting a subsidy because it forces them to use the local product simply because no subsidy is payable on the imported product if its price is in excess of the price of the local product. That applies to other industries, such as the citrus fruit industry and the pineapple industry in the coastal areas north of Brisbane. The Minister's action has assisted the position for the time being and I thank him very  sincerely for what he has done. 
However, the question arises: What of the future? I presume that Australian manufacturers with the challenge before them will need to interest themselves in producing a like product which has to be proved before it can attract a subsidy. This again has resulted from the Minister's actions. If this is not so, the danger is that the growers will be forced to pay a price in excess of what they have paid in the past. Getting back to the point I made earlier, 1 would like to know who the distrib utor is. Also I would like to know from the Minister for Primary Industry: Who is the end user? Who will get the benefit of this subsidy? Will it be absorbed by a series of associate companies passing it onto one another and then on to a retail distributor to the extent that the grower will be at a disadvantage? Perhaps I should be reassured by the Minister's letter to me. The growers are happy with the action of the Minister for Customs and Excise in responding so readily and having a complete analysis of the product made. When it was found thai it did not in any way compare with the imported product the Minister made it possible for the subsidy to be paid on the imported product and I thank him for doing so. 
 The eulogies are flowing thick and fast tonight. I want to say that it has been a great experience to serve my country in the national Parliament for so long a period. All of the eulogies which are flowing on this occasion of the demise of a Parliament remind me of the verse that is used when someone dies and everyone says good things about them. The verse is: 
It is the roses of life that make us feel great, The ones on the grave, I am afraid they're too late. 
We ought to be more appreciative of one another's efforts as we go through life together. I had 6 years experience of being in opposition when I first came into Parliament. I was able to pick all the faults of the Labor Government at that time. I was able to show where it was deficient as the Labor Party for 23 years now has been trying to show where the present Government is deficient. That is Parliament. I had the experience that you had,  Mr Speaker,  for a period when the late  Mr Archie  Cameron was sick. I occupied the chair on that occasion for 5£ months. I will not dare to compare your leniency or otherwise with my own, because I suppose that honourable members thought badly enough of how I tried to handle the House. 
For 9 years I was  Chairman  of Commitees. I think at that time it was an advantage to have standing order 303 under which the  Chairman  could put a member out if he behaved in an unruly manner and then let him back when he calmed off. I remember that we had a social evening on one occasion and the then Government Whip, who ought to have been cooperating with me, provoked me. So I ordered him out. The Leader of the Opposition stood at full height and laughed at him and I said: 'You go with him'. I am sure that the House enjoyed that occasion and came to appreciate that I tried to be fair by putting one out from each side. I served as  Chairman  of Committees and 

 Speaker for a time and then for 9 years as a Minuter. It is a great honour to be in a national Parliament and to accept responsibility. I think that today people are claiming too many rights and are not accepting enough responsibilities. I think that today people seek to be served by, rather than seek to serve, their country. These are some of the problems that are arising. People are not facing up to what they ought to accept as their part in life. 
Whatever deficiencies I have had, all I can say is, like the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  I have done my best. Tensions are severe when one is a member of Cabinet. One is never at ease because one's mind is going all the time. I suppose it was a good thing when J retired from the Ministry, because tension left me within 6 months and I was able to get back to a normal life. I want to agree with what the Leader of the Opposition said when he referred to one's partner in life. I never could have been a member of Parliament to the degree and extent that I have been without the partner that I have in life. She has just been wonderful in every way. The public does not appreciate the loss of home life that one suffers as a member of Parliament. People outside do not realise the calls that are made on a Minister or a member of this House - the lack of home life and all of the responsibility that are ours. 
I conclude by saying, as I join in thanking all officers of the House for helping to keep the Parliament going, that honourable members want to beware that we do not lose the democracy that we have in our Parliaments in this country. When the Press or other media or any person denigrates Parliament or when members of Parliament act with less dignity than they should act as members of Parliament something is taken away from that right which is ours in a democracy to accept the rule of the people through Parliament and so give a fair, equitable and just decision of law. I hope that all members of Parliament will respect the dignity and the responsibility that is associated with Parliament. 
So I conclude 29 years and 3 months in this House, having been in Opposition, in the Chair, in Cabinet and now on the back bench. But I say this: We all ought to have that love of country that  Sir Walter  Scott spoke about in his poem when he wrote: 
Breathes there the man, with soul so dead. 
Who never to himself hath said, 
This is my own, my native land! 
I have been proud of my land and I have tried  to  work for it. 

 Mr MclVOR (Gellibrand) (10.42)- I want to support the remarks that have been made this evening concerning the officers and the attendants of Parliament House, and also the remarks of appreciation that have been made to you,  Mr Speaker,  and to your  Deputy Speaker, Mr Lucock.  I fully support those remarks. But I should like to make one other observation as one who has held for 17 years what probably is the safest seat in Australia and as one who was born in the electorate of Gellibrand and who served the City of Footscray for nearly 20 years as a councillor and in many other capacities in that city. I did not realise until I was elected to Parliament the immense job I had taken on in representing the Federal electorate of Gellibrand as I wanted it represented, that is conscientiously. To the men and women in the Commonwealth departments of Australia I pay my thanks and appreciation, for without their help and advice I could never have coped with the amount of work that went through my office. 
I was once accused of directing a Dorothy Dixer to the then Minister for Social Services. After many attempts to get an office of the Department of Social Services established in my electorate I asked a question one morning of the Minister and he knocked me down by saying that his Department had already obtained the premises for a local office and they were about to open it. The Minister gave me the privilege of opening it. A name I should mention in this connection is that of Maurie Cronin, the Assistant Director of the Department of Social Services in Victoria. Maurie Cronin always used to call me his best customer. After that office was opened, there is no doubt that the load on my shoulders was reduced considerably. In fact, it now is necessary for me only to pick up the telephone and address  Mr Jock  Webb, the man in charge of that Department in Footscray, and the problems I have in regard to social services are taken off my hands. 
Having said that, on behalf of the. honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  I want to say that we appreciate the remarks that have been made about our goods ladies - the political widows, as I call them. I am sure that neither  Mr Griffiths  nor I would have been able to fulfil our duties capably and efficiently in this Parliament had it not been for the help of our wives. I know that I have been a crusty old curse at times, but nevertheless I want to say to my wife who is in this chamber tonight that I appreciate all that she has done for me. I know that  Mr Griffiths  wishes me to express also his appreciation to  Mrs Griffiths. 
I have been asked on a number of occasions, now that I am wending my way out of the Parliament, what have been my impressions and what are some thoughts that I have had since I have been in this Parliament. Firstly, I want to say that it has been a great privilege to serve the national Parliament of Australia and I know it has been a great privilege also for  Mr Griffiths  to serve it. Secondly, I want to say that, since I have been in this Parliament, I have seen 4 Prime Ministers in this place and I have served under 3 leaders of the opposition. I know that I will be forgiven for saying that the Leader of the Opposition that I have loved and respected, perhaps even more than 1 have the late  Dr Evatt  and Gough Whitlam, with all due respects to both men, has been the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  I have known Arthur Calwell for many years and I have grown up with deep affection for him and deep respect for his views and I am very appreciative of the advice he has given me over the years. 
I should like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the 17 years I have been in this Parliament have probably been the most momentous years in Australia's history. I remember the first discovery of uranium in Australia and the effect it had on the nation, particularly the north. I remember my visit to Rum Jungle and Mary Kathleen. 
